---

title: Electronic device and method of processing image in electronic device
abstract: A device and a method for processing an image in an electronic device are disclosed. According to various embodiments, a method of processing an image in an electronic device may include: receiving, by the electronic device, at least one first image from an external device; determining, by the electronic device, whether the electronic device revises at least a part of the at least one first image based on at least a portion of a quality of the at least one first image; changing, by the electronic device, the part by using at least a portion of a second image; and displaying, by the electronic device, a third image including the changed part. In addition, other embodiments may be possible in the various embodiments of the present disclosure.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09491402&OS=09491402&RS=09491402
owner: Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.
number: 09491402
owner_city: Suwon-si
owner_country: KR
publication_date: 20150610
---
The present application is related to and claims the priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 a to Korean Application Serial No. 10 2014 0070132 which was filed in the Korean Intellectual Property Office on Jun. 10 2014 the entire content of which is hereby incorporated by reference.

Various embodiments of the present disclosure relate to an electronic device and a method of processing an image in the electronic device.

By virtue of a development of a wireless communication technology a wireless communication speed is rapidly increased and thus real time video call services as well as voice call services may be provided.

In addition various recent electronic devices have been developed to use diverse functions such as a photography function a music function a video function a multimedia function a game function and the like as well as a wireless communication function. A display unit is provided on a front surface of the electronic devices for effective usage of the diverse functions.

Further various applications referred to as Apps may be installed and performed in the electronic device and a plurality of applications may be simultaneously performed in one electronic device.

Meanwhile in order to provide high quality video call services image data may be compressed to be transmitted. But the providing of the high quality video call service is limited in a limited bandwidth with only the image compression technique.

To address the above discussed deficiencies in various embodiments of the present disclosure an electronic device and a method of processing an image in the electronic device capable of providing a high quality video call service by revising a low definition image into a high definition image through a reference image may be provided.

A method of processing an image according to an embodiment among various embodiments of the present disclosure may include receiving at least one first image from an external device by the electronic device determining whether the electronic device revises at least a part of the first image based on at least a portion of a quality of the first image by the electronic device changing the part by using at least a portion of a second image by the electronic device and displaying a third image including the changed part by the electronic device in a method of operating the electronic device.

An electronic device according to an embodiment among various embodiments of the present disclosure may include at least one processor a display a communication module and a memory device wherein the memory device is performed by the processor and the memory device may be configured to store instructions enabling the electronic device to perform receiving at least one first image from an external device through the communication module determining whether the electronic device revises at least a part of the first image based on at least a portion of a quality of the first image changing the part by using at least a portion of a second image and displaying a third image including the changed part.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure when a high quality image may not be transmitted because an electronic device is located in a weak electric field area or a base station where many subscribers are crowded during a video call an image quality with respect to a face image of the other party may be improved and displayed and thus high quality video call services may also be provided in a limited communication environment.

Before undertaking the DETAILED DESCRIPTION below it may be advantageous to set forth definitions of certain words and phrases used throughout this patent document the terms include and comprise as well as derivatives thereof mean inclusion without limitation the term or is inclusive meaning and or the phrases associated with and associated therewith as well as derivatives thereof may mean to include be included within interconnect with contain be contained within connect to or with couple to or with be communicable with cooperate with interleave juxtapose be proximate to be bound to or with have have a property of or the like and the term controller means any device system or part thereof that controls at least one operation such a device may be implemented in hardware firmware or software or some combination of at least two of the same. It should be noted that the functionality associated with any particular controller may be centralized or distributed whether locally or remotely. Definitions for certain words and phrases are provided throughout this patent document those of ordinary skill in the art should understand that in many if not most instances such definitions apply to prior as well as future uses of such defined words and phrases.

In the present disclosure the expression include or may include refers to existence of a corresponding function operation or element and does not limit one or more additional functions operations or elements. In the present disclosure the terms such as include and or have may be construed to denote a certain characteristic number step operation constituent element component or a combination thereof but may not be construed to exclude the existence of or a possibility of addition of one or more other characteristics numbers steps operations constituent elements components or combinations thereof.

In the present disclosure the expression or includes any or all combinations of words enumerated together. For example the expression A or B may include A may include B or may include both A and B.

In the present disclosure expressions including ordinal numbers such as first and second etc. may modify various elements. However such elements are not limited by the above expressions. For example the above expressions do not limit the sequence and or importance of the elements. For example the above expressions do not limit the sequence and or importance of the elements. For example a first user device and a second user device indicate different user devices although both of them are user devices. For example a first element could be termed a second element and similarly a second element could be also termed a first element without departing from the scope of the present disclosure.

In the case where a component is referred to as being connected or accessed to another component it should be understood that not only the component is directly connected or accessed to the other component but also there may exist another component between them. Meanwhile in the case where a component is referred to as being directly connected or directly accessed to other component it should be understood that there is no component there between.

The terms used in the present disclosure are only used to describe specific embodiments and are not intended to limit the present disclosure. As used herein the singular forms are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise.

Unless defined otherwise all terms used herein including technical and scientific terms have the same meanings as commonly understood by those of skill in the art to which the present disclosure pertains. Such terms as those defined in a generally used dictionary are to be interpreted to have the meanings equal to the contextual meanings in the relevant field of art and are not to be interpreted to have ideal or excessively formal meanings unless clearly defined in the present specification.

An electronic device according to the present disclosure may be but is not limited to a device including a communication function. For example the electronic device may include at least one of a smart phone a tablet Personal Computer PC a mobile phone a video phone an e book reader a desktop PC a laptop PC a netbook computer a Personal Digital Assistant PDA a Portable Multimedia Player PMP an MP3 player a mobile medical device a camera a wearable device for example a Head Mounted Device HMD such as electronic glasses electronic clothes an electronic bracelet an electronic necklace an electronic appcessory an electronic tattoo and a smart watch .

According to some embodiments the electronic device may be a smart home appliance with a communication function. The smart home appliance as an example of the electronic device may include at least one of for example a television a Digital Video Disk DVD player an audio system a refrigerator an air conditioner a vacuum cleaner an oven a microwave oven a washing machine an air cleaner a set top box a TV box e.g. Samsung HomeSync Apple TV or Google TV a game console an electronic dictionary an electronic key a camcorder and an electronic picture frame.

According to some embodiments the electronic device may include at least one of various medical appliances e.g. magnetic resonance angiography MRA magnetic resonance imaging MRI computed tomography CT and ultrasonic machines navigation equipment a global positioning system GPS receiver an event data recorder EDR a flight data recorder FDR automotive infotainment device electronic equipment for ships e.g. ship navigation equipment and a gyrocompass avionics security equipment a vehicle head unit an industrial or home robot an automatic teller machine ATM of a banking system and a point of sales POS of a shop.

According to some embodiments the electronic device may include at least one of a part of furniture or a building structure having a communication function an electronic board an electronic signature receiving device a projector and various kinds of measuring instruments e.g. a water meter an electric meter a gas meter a radio wave meter and the like . The electronic device according to the present disclosure may be a combination of one or more of the aforementioned various devices. Also the electronic device according to the present disclosure may be a flexible device. Further the electronic device according to the present disclosure is not limited to the aforementioned devices.

Hereinafter the electronic device according to the various embodiments will be described with reference to the accompanying drawings. The term user used in the various embodiments may refer to a person or a device using the electronic device.

The bus may be a circuit to connect the above described component elements with each other and to transfer a communication for example control messages among the above described component elements.

The processor may receive an instruction from the above described other component elements e.g. the memory the input output interface the display the communication interface or the like for example through the bus decode the received instruction and perform a calculation or a data process according to the decoded instruction.

The memory may store the instruction or the data received from the processor or other component elements e.g. the input output interface the display the communication interface or the like or generated from the processor or other component elements. The memory may include programming modules for example a kernel a middleware an Application Programming Interface API or an application . Each of the programming modules described above may be configured by a software a firmware a hardware or combinations of two or more thereof.

The kernel may control or manage system resources for example the bus the processor the memory or the like which are used in performing operations or functions implemented by other programming modules for example the middleware the API or the application . Furthermore the kernel may provide an interface through which the middleware the API and the application may access individual component elements of the electronic device to control or manage them.

The middleware may perform a relay function to allow the API or the application to communicate with the kernel to exchange data. Further in relation to requests for an operation received from the application the middleware may control e.g. a scheduling or a load balancing the requests by using for example a method of determining a sequence for using system resources e.g. the bus the processor the memory or the like of the electronic device with respect to at least one application among the applications .

The API is an interface by which the application controls functions provided from the kernel or the middleware and may include for example at least one interface or function for example instructions for a file control a window control an image processing a text control or the like.

According to various embodiments the application may include a voice call application a video call application SMS MMS applications an e mail application a calendar application an alarm application a health care application e.g. an application for measuring a quantity of motion a blood sugar or the like an environment information application e.g. an application for providing information of an atmospheric pressure a humidity a temperature or the like etc. Additionally or alternatively the application may be an application related to the exchange of information between the electronic device and external electronic devices for example an electronic device . The application related to the information exchange may include for example a notification relay application for transferring particular information to the external electronic device or a device management application for managing the external electronic device.

For example the notification relay application may include a function of transmitting notification information generated by another application for example the SMS MMS application the email application the health care application or the environment information application of the electronic device to the external electronic device for example the electronic device . Additionally or alternatively the notification relay application may receive notification information from for example an external electronic device for example the electronic device and provide the same to a user. The device management application for example may manage for example install delete or update at least some functions for example turning external electronic device or some elements on or off or adjusting the brightness or resolution of a display of an external electronic device for example the electronic device that communicates with the electronic device applications performed in the external electronic device or services for example a phone call service or a messaging service provided from the external electronic device.

According to the various embodiments the application may include an application designated according to a property e.g. a kind of the electronic device of the external electronic device e.g. the electronic device . For example in a case where the external electronic device is an MP3 player the application may include an application related to the reproduction of music. Similarly when the external electronic device is a mobile medical device the application may include an application related to the health care. According to an embodiment the application may include at least one of an application designated to the electronic device and an application received from an external electronic device for example a server or the electronic device .

The input output interface may transfer an instruction or data input from a user through a input output device e.g. a sensor a keyboard or a touch screen to the processor the memory or the communication interface through for example the bus . For example the input output interface may provide to the processor data for a user s touch which is input through the touch screen. In addition the input output interface may output the instruction or data received from the processor the memory or the communication interface through for example the bus . The input output interface may output the instruction or data through the input output device e.g. a speaker or the display . For example the input output interface may output voice data processed by the processor to the user through the speaker.

The display may display various pieces of information for example multimedia data or text data to a user.

The communication interface may connect communication between the electronic device and the external device for example the electronic device or the server . For example the communication interface may access a network through a wireless or a wired communication to communicate with the external device. The wireless communication may include at least one of for example a Wireless Fidelity Wi Fi a Bluetooth BT a Near Field Communication NFC a Global Positioning System GPS and a cellular communication for example an LTE an LTE A a CDMA a WCDMA a UMTS a WiBro a GSM or the like . The wired communication may include at least one of for example a Universal Serial Bus USB a High Definition Multimedia Interface HDMI a Recommended Standard 232 RS 232 and a Plain Old Telephone Service POTS .

According to an embodiment the network may be a communication network. The communication network may include at least one of a computer network Internet Internet of things and a telephone network. According to an embodiment a protocol for example a transport layer protocol a data link layer protocol or a physical layer protocol for the communication between the electronic device and the external device may be supported by at least one of the application the application programming interface the middleware the kernel and the communication interface .

Referring to the image process module may include at least one of an image collect module a pose determine module an image search module and an image revise module . In a shown embodiment each of the modules and is separated. But in another embodiment two or more of the modules and may be combined and may form one module. In addition the image process module may operate in connection with a reference image database .

The image collect module may collect image data to store the image data to the reference image database according to various embodiments of the present disclosure. The image collect module may identify at least one object included in each image of the collected image data and may determine a pose of the identified object. The image collect module may store the collected image in the reference image database together with information of the identified object or pose information of the object. In addition according to another embodiment the image collect module may store the information of the object and the pose information of the object included in the collected image in the reference image database by receiving the information of the object and the pose information of the object from an external device or another module in the electronic device.

According to various embodiment of the present disclosure the image collect module may determine whether the image collect module stores the image collected as a reference image based on the determined pose information of the object. Detailed description with respect to this will be described in a description of .

The image collect module may collect the image data in various methods. For example according to an embodiment of the present disclosure the image collect module may collect the image data stored in the electronic device. The image data stored in the electronic device may be image data photographed through a camera module of the electronic device and may be image data transmitted from outside the electronic device by a wired or wireless communication means for example received at the electronic device from external device that photographed the image data. In addition the image data stored in the electronic device may be grouped in an album type and stored. In addition the image data may information matched with a specific number or a specific person stored in an address book or a phonebook of the electronic device. The image data collected in the image collect module according to the various embodiment may be provided to the pose determine module .

The pose determine module may determine the pose of the object included in the collected data. The determined pose information may include direction information of the object on a two dimensional or three dimensional plane. In addition when the object is a face the pose information may include information of an angle. Here the angle is a ration angle in which the face is rotated from a front surface of the face in a left direction or a right direction. A method of determining the pose of the object in the pose determine module may use various known image process methods. For example a feature point detection a FAST an AGAST a Hessian affine region detector and so on a feature point descriptor a SIFT a SURF a BRISK a FREAK and so on a feature point matching algorithm a brute force KD tree usage a locality sensitive hashing and so on an object pose calculation algorithm an RANSAC a PROSAC a M estimator and so on and the like may be used. But the method of determining the pose of the present disclosure is not limited to the above mentioned methods.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the image collect module may store the pose information of the object determined from the pose determine module in the reference image database together with the collected image data. In addition according to an embodiment the reference image database may store an image having a different pose with respect to the same object as the reference image. Thus when an image having the same pose with respect to the same object is stored in the reference image database in advance only one image data may be stored in the reference image database . Detailed embodiments with respect to this will be described in the description in or .

When an object image for an image revising is provided to the image process module the image search module may search for the reference image including an object equal to an object included in the object image from the reference image database .

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure when the object image is a video call image received from the other party during a video call the object included in the object image may be a face of the other party of the call. In addition when the video call image received in real time during the video call is provided as the object image the object included in the object image may be determined as the face of the other party and the image search module may also search for the reference image matched with a name of the other party of the call in the reference image database .

For example when the video call image received in real time during the video call is provided as the object image information e.g. a name a telephone number and the like of the other party of the call may be information stored in the address book of the electronic device in advance. Thus as described above the image collect module may match the information stored in the address book with the collected image data to store the matched information stored in the address book and the collected image data in the reference image database . The image search module may easily search for the reference image including the object without identifying of the object included in the image during the video call.

In addition when the object image for the image revising is provided to the image process module the pose determine module may determine the pose of the object included in the provided object image. A method of determining the pose of the object included in the object image in the pose determine module may be implemented by various methods as described above. The pose information of the object determined in the pose determine module may be provided to the image search module .

The image search module may search the reference image corresponding to the determined pose information among at least one reference images including the object and stored in the reference image database by using the pose information determined by the pose determine module . For example when the object included in the provided object image is a face and a direction of the face is front the reference image wherein a direction of a face is a front may be searched for among the reference images including a person s face equal to the face included in the object image. The pose information of the object included in the object image may not be accurately equal to the pose information of the object included in the reference image and a reference image having a pose most similar to the pose of the object included in the object image may be selected among the reference images including the object equal to the object included in the object image.

In addition according to various embodiments of the present disclosure the pose information may be divided into N number of poses set in advance. For example when the object included in the image is the person s face the pose of the face may be divided into a front surface a 45 degrees in a left side direction a 45 degrees in a right side direction a left side surface a right side surface and the like. Thus when the object included in the object image to be revised is the face the most similar pose among the set five poses may be determined as the pose information of the object. Therefore among the reference images including the same face and stored in the reference image database the reference image stored as the same pose information may be determined as the reference image to be used for the revising among the front surface the 45 degrees in a left side direction the 45 degrees in a right side direction the left side surface the right side surface.

The image revise module may revise the object image by using the reference image searched for through the image search module . A method of revising the image may use various known image process techniques.

For example the image revise module may use a super resolution method as the method of revising the image. The super resolution method is a technique capable of revising a low definition object image into a high definition image by using a high definition reference image. The super resolution method is a method estimating a value of a pixel by a probability and statistics among mathematic methods such as a Markov Random Function MRF model.

As an embodiment of the image revising technique for example when data information of 4 4 pixels is received in a case wherein two or three pixel information is omitted among the 4 4 pixels due to a reason of a network an area where the pixel information is empty may be searched for among the reference images and the pixel value of the area where the pixel information is omitted may be stochastically inferred based on the pixel value of the corresponding area.

In various embodiments of the present disclosure when the image revise module revises the object module the image revise module revises the image by using the reference image including the object of which the pose is equal to the pose of the object included in the object image and thus an effectiveness of the revising may be higher. Thus for example after storing the face images having various poses with respect to each person stored in the address book a face image having a pose equal or similar to a pose of the other party of the call during the video call with a person of which the reference image is stored is rapidly searched for the face image is provided as the reference image for the image revising and thus a high definition video call service may be provided in real time.

At least a portion of or all functions of the image process module described above may be processed in connection with the processor or an application processor of . Alternatively at least the portion of or all functions of the image process module may be included in the processor or the application processor to be implemented. In addition each of the functions of the image process module may be stored in the memory as an application and when the application stored in the memory is performed by the processor the functions according to the various embodiments of the present disclosure described above may be performed. For example the processor may perform each of the applications e.g. an video call application stored in the memory and improve an image quality of the image received from the image process module to display a user through the display .

In the image process module is separated from the processor or the application processor but at least a partial function unit of the image process module may be included in the processor or the application processor and all functions of the image process module may be included in the processor or the application processor .

An electronic device according to one of various embodiments of the present disclosure may include at least one processor a display a communication module and a memory device. The memory device is performed by the processor and the memory device may be configured to store instructions enabling the electronic device to perform receiving at least one first image from an external device through the communication module determining whether the electronic device revises at least a part of the first image based on at least a portion of a quality of the first image changing the part by using at least a portion of a second image and displaying a third image including the changed part.

The receiving the at least one first image from the external device may include receiving the first image by using at least one of a cellular communication module or a non cellular communication module of the electronic device.

The receiving the at least one first image from the external device may include receiving the first image during a video call.

The determining whether the electronic device revises the at least one part of the first image may include determining whether the electronic device revises the at least one part of the first image based on at least a portion of a quality of a signal received during the receiving.

The at least one part of the first image may include a person s face shape included in the first image.

The second image may include an image stored in a non volatile memory included in the electronic device.

The memory device may further store instructions for performing a capturing of the second image by using a camera of the electronic device.

The changing the part by using the at least one portion of the second image may include using one or more pixel value of the at least one portion of the second image with one or more pixel value of the at least one part of the first image.

An electronic device according to one of various embodiments of the present disclosure may include a pose determine module that determines a pose of an object included in an object image to be revised an image search module that determines a reference image to be used in the revising among at least reference images including the object based on pose information of the object determined in the pose determine module and an image revise module that revises the object image by using the determined reference image.

The image search module may select the reference image including the object of which the pose is similar to the pose of the object included in the object image within a set range among the at least reference images including the object.

The electronic device may further include an image collect module that stores a plurality of images including an object of which poses are different with respect to the same object as the reference image.

The image collect module may match the reference image to at least one telephone number in a telephone number list stored in the electronic device and store the reference image.

The image collect module may collect the reference image from a picture album stored in the electronic device.

The image collect module may collect the reference image from an external server through a communication module included in the electronic device.

The image collect module may collect the reference image from an image received from the other party of a call during the video call.

The image collect module may determine the pose of the object included in the collected image. The image collect module may determine whether there is the reference image including the object of which the pose is similar to the determined pose within the set range among the pre stored reference images. As a result of the determination when there is no pre stored reference image the collected image may be stored as the reference image.

When there is the pre stored reference image including the object of which the pose is similar to the determined pose within the set range the image collect module may compare an information amount of the object included in the collected image with an information amount of the object included in the pre stored reference image and when the information amount of the object included in the collected image is more than the information amount of the object included in the pre stored reference image the image collect module may replace the pre stored reference image with the collected image to store the collected image.

The information amount of the object may be determined based on at least one of a resolution of the image including the object a file size of the image including the object a pixel number of an area where the object is included and a size of the object.

The object image may be an image forming a frame of call image data received from the other party according to a start of the video call through the electronic device.

The image revise module may revise the object image by suing the reference image based on the super resolution method.

Hereinafter a method of processing an image in an electronic device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure will be described with reference to .

In step when the object image for the image revising is received the pose of the object included in the object image may be determined. For example in the electronic device the image transmitted from the other party of the call may be received as the object image in real time during the video call.

In step the reference image including the object equal to the object included in the object image may be searched for. In step among the reference images including the same object the reference image including the object of which the pose is equal to the pose of the object image or similar to the pose of the object image within the set error range may be searched for or determined.

In step the object included in the collected image may be identified. When person s information is matched to the collected image and the image includes the person s face the operation of identifying the object may be omitted. For example according to various embodiments of the present disclosure when the image stored in the phonebook is collected the image is collected from a social network address of the specific person or the information of the specific person is stored as meta information and the like of the collected image the operation of identifying the object may be omitted.

In step the pose of the object included in the image may be determined. The pose information may include direction information of the object on the two dimensional or three dimensional plane as described above. In addition when the object is the face the pose information of the object may include the information of the angle. Here the angle is the ration angle in which the face is rotated from the front surface of the face in the left direction or the right direction.

In step the database in which the reference data are stored is searched and when the image including the object of which the pose is equal to or similar to the pose of the object included in the collected image is not stored in the database in step the collected image may be matched to the determined pose information and may be stored as the reference image.

In step the database in which the reference data are stored is searched and when the image including the object of which the pose is equal to or similar to the pose of the object included in the collected image is stored as the reference image in advance in step the information amount of the object in the image may be compared with the information amount of the object in the stored reference image. The information amount of the object may be determined based on at least one of the resolution of the image including the object the file size of the image including the object the pixel number of the area where the object is included and the size of the object.

In step when the information amount of the object included in the collected image is more than the information amount of the object included in the pre stored reference image in step the pre stored reference image may be replaced with the collected image as the reference image and the collected image may be stored. In contrast in step when the information amount of the object included in the collected image is not more than the information amount of the object included in the pre stored reference image in step the collected image may be discarded.

In addition according to another embodiment in step the database in which the reference data are stored is searched and when the image including the object of which the pose is equal to or similar to the pose of the object included in the collected image is stored as the reference image in advance the collected image may be discarded without the determination of the above mentioned information amount of the object.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure at least one step may be referred to an operation among the steps shown in or may be omitted and at least one another step may be added between the steps. In addition the steps shown in or may be performed in the shown sequence. Alternatively a performance sequence of at least one step may be exchanged with another performance sequence.

A method of operating an electronic device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure may include receiving at least one first image from an external device by the electronic device determining whether the electronic device revises at least a part of the first image based on at least a portion of a quality of the first image by the electronic device changing the part by using at least a portion of a second image by the electronic device and displaying a third image including the changed part by the electronic device.

The receiving the at least one first image from the external device may include receiving the first image by using at least one of a cellular communication module or a non cellular communication module of the electronic device.

The receiving the at least one first image from the external device may include receiving the first image during a video call.

The determining whether the electronic device revises the at least the part of the first image may include determining whether the electronic device revises the at least one part of the first image based on at least a portion of a quality of a signal received during the receiving.

The at least one part of the first image may include a person s face shape included in the first image.

The second image may include an image stored in a non volatile memory included in the electronic device.

The method may include receiving the second image using a communication module of the electronic device.

The changing the part by using the at least one portion of the second image may include using one or more pixel value of the at least one portion of the second image with one or more pixel value of the at least one part of the first image.

A method of processing an image in an electronic device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure may include determining a pose of an object included in an object image to be revised determining a reference image to be used in the revising among at least reference images including the object based on the determined pose information of the object and revising the object image by using the determined reference image.

The determining the reference image to be used for the revising may include selecting the reference image including the object of which the pose is similar to the pose of the object included in the object image within a set range among the at least reference images including the object.

The method may further include storing a plurality of images including an object of which poses are different with respect to the same object as the reference image.

The reference image may be matched to at least one telephone number among the telephone number list stored in the electronic device.

The reference image may be collected from an external server through a communication module included in the electronic device.

The reference image may be collected from an image received from the other part of a call during the video call.

The storing the plurality of images as the reference image may include determining the pose of the object included in the collected image determining whether there is the reference image including the object of which the pose is similar to the determined pose within a set range among pre stored reference images and storing the collected image as the reference image when there is no pre stored reference image as a result of the determination.

When there is the pre stored reference image including the object of which the pose is similar to the determined pose within the set range the method may include comparing an information amount of the object included in the collected image with an information amount of the object included in the pre stored reference image and when the information amount of the object included in the collected image is larger than the information amount of the object included in the pre stored reference image replacing the pre stored reference image with the collected image to store the collected image.

The information amount of the object may be determined based on at least one of a resolution of the image including the object a file size of the image including the object a pixel number of an area where the object is included and a size of the object.

The object image may be an image forming a frame of call image data received from the other party according to a start of the video call through the electronic device.

The revising the object image by the reference image may be revising the object image by using a super resolution method.

Hereinafter methods of storing the reference data according to various embodiments of the present disclosure will be described with reference to .

For example as shown in the reference image may be formed with the plurality of images in which the same object e.g. the same person s face is included and the respective objects may have different poses with each other in the plurality of reference images including the same object. For example when the object included in the reference image is the person s face with respect to the same person s face each of face images in which directions of the face are a central direction 45 degrees in a left direction 45 degrees in a right direction a left side direction and a right side direction may be stored as the reference image. Thus according to various embodiments of the present disclosure the revising is performed with the reference image including the object of which the pose is the most similar to the pose of the object included in the object image to be revised and thus an effectiveness of the revising may be higher.

In five images including the person s face as the object are set as the reference images with respect to the same person but according to various embodiments of the present disclosure the number and or the pose of the reference images with respect to the same person may be variously set. The number of the reference image may be set in advance as a proper number e.g. five in in order to maximally improve an effectiveness. In addition according to an embodiment of the present disclosure the reference images shown in may be collected with respect to each person stored in the phonebook of the electronic device and may be stored. The phonebook may include a comprehensive meaning of personal information database having a telephone number as a key value.

A method of forming the plurality of reference images including the object of which the poses are different with respect to each person stored in the phonebook may be variously implemented. For example the reference images may be formed by the method described in . Thus when new image data is collected the reference images shown in may be replaced with the new image data having a more information amount according to each pose.

For example a template formed with five slots with respect to the same person is generated as shown in and it may be determined whether a slot corresponding to the pose of the object included in the collected image is empty. When the corresponding slot is empty the collected image may be inserted into the corresponding slot.

When the reference image is stored in the corresponding slot in advance it may be determined whether the reference image is replaced with the new image by comparing the information amount of the object included in the reference image stored in the corresponding slot in advance with the information amount of the object included in the collected image. For example when a resolution of the collected image is higher than a resolution of the reference image stored in the corresponding slot of the template in advance the pre stored reference image may be replaced with the collected image. Thus an image having the highest resolution among the images collected according to each slot may be stored as the reference image. In the above example the information amount of the object is compared based on a resolution. But as described above the information amount of the object may be compared based on at least one of a file size of the image including the object a number of a pixel where the object is included a size of the object in addition to the resolution of the image.

Hereinafter methods of collecting the reference image according to various embodiments of the present disclosure will be described with reference to .

For example in general it is quite probable that a person to which the video call is made among people stored in the phonebook is a close friend a lover or a family member and it is quite probable that there is a picture photographed together with this person in one s own electronic device. Thus a face recognition is performed with respect to each photographed picture and thus a face image with respect to the people stored in the phonebook may be stored as the reference image.

For more specific example as shown in when a plurality of pictures with respect to a person called John are stored in the picture gallery pose information of the face included in each picture is determined the pose information and the corresponding picture are matched to the person John and the corresponding picture may be stored as the reference image. Thus a plurality of images having different face poses with respect to each person registered in the phonebook may be stored as the reference images.

More specifically for example in a case of an SNS connected with the phonebook it is quite probable that there is a picture of a person stored in the phonebook in a server of the SNS. By using such a feature the face image of the people stored in the phonebook from the SNS server may be collected and established as the reference image database. Thus the face image with respect to each person registered in the phonebook may be collected from the SNS server and the plurality of images having the different face poses may be stored as the reference images.

For example the electronic device may request a search with respect to each user registered in the phonebook of the electronic device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure. According to the search request when the high definition image of the corresponding user is registered in a server the registered high definition image may be provided to the electronic device which requested the search. The provided high definition face image may be stored as the reference image in connection with the corresponding person of the phonebook.

The AP may control a plurality of hardware or software components connected to the AP by driving an operating system or an application program process various data including multimedia data and perform calculations. The AP may be implemented as for example a System on Chip SoC . According to an embodiment the AP may further include a graphic processing unit GPU not shown .

The communication module for example the communication interface may perform data transmission reception in communication between the electronic device for example the electronic device and other electronic devices for example the electronic device and the server connected over a network. According to an embodiment the communication module may include a cellular module a WiFi module a BT module a GPS module an NFC module and a radio frequency RF module .

The cellular module may provide a voice call a video call a message service or an internet service through a communication network for example LTE LTE A CDMA WCDMA UMTS WiBro GSM or the like . Also the cellular module may identify and authenticate an electronic device in a communication network using for example a subscriber identification module for example the SIM card . According to an embodiment the cellular module may perform at least a part of functions that may be provided by the AP . For example the cellular module may perform at least a part of a multimedia control function.

According to an embodiment the cellular module may include a communication processor CP . In addition for example the cellular module may be implemented as a System on Chip SOC . In the component elements such as the cellular module e.g. a communication processor the memory the power management module and the like are separated with the AP but according to an embodiment the AP may include at least a part of the above mentioned component elements e.g. the cellular module .

According to an embodiment the AP or the cellular module e.g. the communication processor may load a command or data received from at least one of a non volatile memory and other elements connected thereto into a volatile memory and process the loaded command or data. Further the AP or the cellular module may store data received from or generated by at least one of the other components in a non volatile memory.

Each of the Wi Fi module the BT module the GPS module and the NFC module may include for example a processor for processing data transmitted received through the corresponding module. Although each of the cellular module the WiFi module the BT module the GPS module and the NFC module is shown as a separate block in at least some e.g. two or more of the cellular module the WiFi module the BT module the GPS module and the NFC module may be included in one Integrated Chip IC or IC package according to an embodiment. For example at least a few for example a communication processor corresponding to the cellular module and a Wi Fi processor corresponding to the Wi Fi module of the processors corresponding to the cellular module the Wi Fi module the BT module the GPS module and the NFC module respectively may be implemented as a single SoC.

The RF module may transmit receive data for example an RF signal. Although not illustrated the RF module may include for example a transceiver a Power Amp Module PAM a frequency filter a Low Noise Amplifier LNA or the like. Further the RF unit may further include a component for transmitting receiving an electromagnetic wave in the air in a radio communication such as a conductor or a conducting wire. Although shows that the cellular module the WiFi module the BT module the GPS module and the NFC module share one RF module at least one of the cellular module the WiFi module the BT module the GPS module and the NFC module may perform RF signal transmission reception through a separate RF module.

The SIM card may be a card including a subscriber identification module and may be inserted into a slot formed in a particular portion of the electronic device. The SIM card may include unique identification information for example Integrated Circuit Card IDentifier ICCID or subscriber information for example International Mobile Subscriber Identity IMSI .

The memory for example the memory may include an internal memory or an external memory . The internal memory may include at least one of a volatile memory for example a Dynamic Random Access Memory DRAM a Static RAM SRAM a Synchronous Dynamic RAM SDRAM and the like and a non volatile memory for example a One Time Programmable Read Only Memory OTPROM a Programmable ROM PROM an Erasable and Programmable ROM EPROM an Electrically Erasable and Programmable ROM EEPROM a mask ROM a flash ROM a NAND flash memory a NOR flash memory and the like .

According to one embodiment the internal memory may be a Solid State Drive SSD . The external memory may further include a flash drive for example a Compact Flash CF a Secure Digital SD a Micro Secure Digital Micro SD a Mini Secure Digital Mini SD an eXtreme Digital xD a memory stick or the like. The external memory may be functionally connected to the electronic device through various interfaces. According to an embodiment the electronic device may further include a storage device or storage medium such as a hard drive.

The sensor module may measure a physical quantity or detect an operation state of the electronic device and may convert the measured or detected information to an electronic signal. The sensor module may include for example at least one of a gesture sensor A a gyro sensor B an atmospheric pressure sensor C a magnetic sensor D an acceleration sensor E a grip sensor F a proximity sensor G a color sensor H e.g. a Red Green Blue RGB sensor a biometric sensor I a temperature humidity sensor J a light sensor K and a ultraviolet UV sensor M. Additionally or alternatively the sensor module may include for example a E nose sensor not illustrated an ElectroMyoGraphy EMG sensor not illustrated an ElectroEncephaloGram EEG sensor not illustrated an ElectroCardioGram ECG sensor not illustrated an InfraRed IR sensor an iris sensor not illustrated a fingerprint sensor and the like. The sensor module may further include a control circuit for controlling one or more sensors included therein.

The input device may include a touch panel a digital pen sensor a key or an ultrasonic input device . The touch panel may recognize a touch input through at least one of for example a capacitive type a resistive type an infrared type and an acoustic wave type. The touch panel may further include a control circuit. The capacitive type touch panel may recognize physical contact or proximity. The touch panel may also further include a tactile layer. In this case the touch panel may provide a tactile reaction to a user.

The digital pen sensor may be implemented for example using a method identical or similar to a method of receiving a touch input of a user or using a separate recognition sheet. The key may include for example a physical button an optical key or a keypad. The ultrasonic input device is a device which can detect an acoustic wave by a microphone for example a microphone of the electronic device through an input tool generating an ultrasonic signal to identify data and can perform wireless recognition. According to an embodiment the electronic device may also receive a user input from an external device e.g. a computer or a server connected thereto by using the communication module .

The display for example the display may include a panel a hologram device or a projector . The panel may be for example a Liquid Crystal Display LCD Active Matrix Organic Light Emitting Diode AM OLED or the like. The panel may be implemented to be for example flexible transparent or wearable. The panel may be also configured as one module together with the touch panel . The hologram device may show a stereoscopic image in the air by using interference of light. The projector may project light onto a screen to display an image. For example the screen may be located inside or outside the electronic device . According to an embodiment the display may further include a control circuit for controlling the panel the hologram unit or the projector .

The interface may include for example a High Definition Multimedia Interface HDMI a Universal Serial Bus USB an optical interface or a D subminiature D sub . The interface may be included in for example the communication interface illustrated in . Additionally or alternatively the interface may include for example a Mobile High definition Link MHL interface a Secure Digital SD card Multi Media Card MMC interface or an Infrared Data Association IrDA standard interface.

The audio module may bilaterally convert a sound and an electronic signal. At least some components of the audio module may be included in for example the input output interface illustrated in . The audio module may process voice information input or output through for example a speaker a receiver earphones the microphone or the like.

The camera module is a device that can take still and moving images and according to an embodiment may include one or more image sensors e.g. a front sensor or a rear sensor a lens not shown an Image Signal Processor ISP not shown or a flash e.g. an LED or a xenon lamp not shown .

The power management module may manage power of the electronic device . Although not illustrated the power management module may include for example a Power Management Integrated Circuit PMIC a charger Integrated Circuit IC or a battery or fuel gauge.

The PMIC may be mounted to for example an integrated circuit or a SoC semiconductor. Charging methods may be classified into a wired charging method and a wireless charging method. The charger IC may charge a battery and prevent over voltage or over current from being flowed from a charger. According to an embodiment the charger IC may include a charger IC for at least one of the wired charging and the wireless charging. A magnetic resonance scheme a magnetic induction scheme or an electromagnetic scheme may be exemplified as the wireless charging method and an additional circuit for wireless charging such as a coil loop circuit a resonance circuit a rectifier circuit and the like may be added.

The battery gauge may measure for example a remaining quantity of the battery or a voltage a current or a temperature during the charging. The battery may store or generate electricity and may supply power to the electronic device using the stored or generated electricity. The battery may include for example a rechargeable battery or a solar battery.

The indicator may display a particular state of the electronic device or a part thereof for example the AP for example a boot up state a message state a charging state or the like. The motor may convert an electrical signal to a mechanical vibration. Although not shown the electronic device may include a processing unit e.g. a GPU for supporting a mobile TV function. The processing unit for supporting the mobile TV may process for example media data according to a standard of a Digital Multimedia Broadcasting DMB a Digital Video Broadcasting DVB a media flow or the like.

Each of the components of the electronic device according to the present disclosure may be implemented by one or more components and the name of the corresponding component may vary depending on a type of the electronic device. The hardware according to an embodiment of the present disclosure may include at least one of the above described elements. Some of the above described elements may be omitted from the hardware or the hardware may further include additional elements. Further some of the components of the electronic device according to the present disclosure may be combined to be one entity which can perform the same functions as those of the components before the combination.

The term module used in the present disclosure may refer to for example a unit including one or more combinations of hardware software and firmware. The module may be interchangeably used with a term such as unit logic logical block component or circuit. The module may be the smallest unit of an integrated component or a part thereof. The module may be the smallest unit that performs one or more functions or a part thereof. The module may be mechanically or electronically implemented. For example the module according to the present disclosure may include at least one of an Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC chip a Field Programmable Gate Arrays FPGA and a programmable logic device for performing operations which has been known or are to be developed hereinafter.

According to various embodiments at least some of the devices for example modules or functions thereof or the method for example operations according to the present disclosure may be implemented by a command stored in a computer readable storage medium in a programming module form. When the instructions are executed by one or more processors e.g. the one or more processors the one or more processors may perform functions corresponding to the instructions. The computer readable storage medium may be for example the memory . At least some of the programming modules may be implemented for example executed by for example the processor . At least a part of the programming module may include for example a module a program a routine a set of instructions and or a process for performing one or more functions.

The computer readable recording medium may include magnetic media such as a hard disk a floppy disk and a magnetic tape optical media such as a Compact Disc Read Only Memory CD ROM and a Digital Versatile Disc DVD magneto optical media such as a floptical disk and hardware devices specially configured to store and perform a program instruction for example programming module such as a Read Only Memory ROM a Random Access Memory RAM a flash memory and the like. In addition the program instructions may include high class language codes which can be executed in a computer by using an interpreter as well as machine codes made by a compiler. The aforementioned hardware device may be configured to operate as one or more software modules in order to perform the operation of the present disclosure and vice versa.

The programming module according to the present disclosure may include one or more of the aforementioned components or may further include other additional components or some of the aforementioned components may be omitted. Operations executed by a module a programming module or other component elements according to various embodiments of the present disclosure may be executed sequentially in parallel repeatedly or in a heuristic manner. Further some operations may be executed according to another order or may be omitted or other operations may be added.

According to various embodiments in a storage medium storing instructions the instructions are set for enabling at least one processor to perform at least one operation when the instructions are performed by the at least one processor. The at least one operation may include receiving at least one first image from an external device by an electronic device determining whether the electronic device revises at least a part of the first image based on at least a portion of a quality of the first image by the electronic device changing the part by using at least a portion of a second image by the electronic device and displaying a third image including the changed part by the electronic device.

Although the present disclosure has been described with an exemplary embodiment various changes and modifications may be suggested to one skilled in the art. It is intended that the present disclosure encompass such changes and modifications as fall within the scope of the appended claims.

