---

title: Method and apparatus for migrating encrypted data
abstract: An approach is provided for managing the migration of large amounts of encrypted data. A migration platform processes a master key associated with the source database to decrypt an envelope key associated with the data to be migrated. The migration platform also retrieves a master key associated with the target database and encrypts the envelope key based on the master key associated with the target database.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09509500&OS=09509500&RS=09509500
owner: HERE GLOBAL B.V.
number: 09509500
owner_city: Veldhoven
owner_country: NL
publication_date: 20150331
---
Service providers and device manufacturers e.g. wireless cellular etc. are continually challenged to deliver value and convenience to consumers by for example providing compelling network services. One area of interest has been enabling customers to efficiently migrate historical data especially encrypted data from a source database to a target database. Typical approaches to migrating large amounts of encrypted data involve decrypting the data prior to transmission transmitting the decrypted data to the target storage medium then re encrypting it at the source database. Unfortunately each encryption procedure increases the amount of time required for transferring the data. Moreover this approach is resource intensive and may be further impeded by network latency issues. There is currently no efficient means of migrating large amounts of encrypted data

Therefore there is a need for an approach for managing the migration of large amounts of encrypted data.

According to one embodiment a method comprises determining the submission of a request to migrate data from a source database to a target database based on the execution of one or more threads for fulfilling the request. The method also comprises processing and or facilitating a processing of a master key associated with the source database to decrypt an envelope key associated with the data to be migrated. The method also comprises retrieving a master key associated with the target database. The method further comprises encrypting the envelope key based on the master key associated with the target database.

According to another embodiment an apparatus comprises at least one processor and at least one memory including computer program code for one or more computer programs the at least one memory and the computer program code configured to with the at least one processor cause at least in part the apparatus to determine the submission of a request to migrate data from a source database to. The apparatus is also caused to process and or facilitate a processing of a master key associated with the source database to decrypt an envelope key associated with the data to be migrated. The apparatus is also caused to retrieve a master key associated with the target database. The apparatus is further caused to encrypt the envelope key based on the master key associated with the target database.

According to another embodiment a computer readable storage medium carries one or more sequences of one or more instructions which when executed by one or more processors cause at least in part an apparatus to determine the submission of a request to migrate data from a source database to. The apparatus is also caused to process and or facilitate a processing of a master key associated with the source database to decrypt an envelope key associated with the data to be migrated. The apparatus is also caused to retrieve a master key associated with the target database. The apparatus is further caused to encrypt the envelope key based on the master key associated with the target database.

According to another embodiment an apparatus comprises means for determining the submission of a request to migrate data from a source database to. The apparatus also comprises means for processing and or facilitating a processing of a master key associated with the source database to decrypt an envelope key associated with the data to be migrated. The apparatus also comprises means for retrieving a master key associated with the target database. The apparatus further comprises means for encrypting the envelope key based on the master key associated with the target database.

In addition for various example embodiments of the invention the following is applicable a method comprising facilitating a processing of and or processing 1 data and or 2 information and or 3 at least one signal the 1 data and or 2 information and or 3 at least one signal based at least in part on or derived at least in part from any one or any combination of methods or processes disclosed in this application as relevant to any embodiment of the invention.

For various example embodiments of the invention the following is also applicable a method comprising facilitating access to at least one interface configured to allow access to at least one service the at least one service configured to perform any one or any combination of network or service provider methods or processes disclosed in this application.

For various example embodiments of the invention the following is also applicable a method comprising facilitating creating and or facilitating modifying 1 at least one device user interface element and or 2 at least one device user interface functionality the 1 at least one device user interface element and or 2 at least one device user interface functionality based at least in part on data and or information resulting from one or any combination of methods or processes disclosed in this application as relevant to any embodiment of the invention and or at least one signal resulting from one or any combination of methods or processes disclosed in this application as relevant to any embodiment of the invention.

For various example embodiments of the invention the following is also applicable a method comprising creating and or modifying 1 at least one device user interface element and or 2 at least one device user interface functionality the 1 at least one device user interface element and or 2 at least one device user interface functionality based at least in part on data and or information resulting from one or any combination of methods or processes disclosed in this application as relevant to any embodiment of the invention and or at least one signal resulting from one or any combination of methods or processes disclosed in this application as relevant to any embodiment of the invention.

In various example embodiments the methods or processes can be accomplished on the service provider side or on the user device side or in any shared way between service provider and user device with actions being performed on both sides.

For various example embodiments the following is applicable An apparatus comprising means for performing the method of any of the claims.

Still other aspects features and advantages of the invention are readily apparent from the following detailed description simply by illustrating a number of particular embodiments and implementations including the best mode contemplated for carrying out the invention. The invention is also capable of other and different embodiments and its several details can be modified in various obvious respects all without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. Accordingly the drawings and description are to be regarded as illustrative in nature and not as restrictive.

Examples of a method apparatus and computer program for managing the migration of large amounts of encrypted data according to one embodiment are disclosed. In the following description for the purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the embodiments of the invention. It is apparent however to one skilled in the art that the embodiments of the invention may be practiced without these specific details or with an equivalent arrangement. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the embodiments of the invention.

As used herein the term data migration refers to any procedure for transferring information from a source database to destination database remotely. For the purpose of illustration herein this may include the migrating of data from a dedicated server or cluster thereof a cloud based storage medium or any other collection network resources for maintaining and storing data.

As noted previously users of such services may be required to migrate large amounts of historical data from one storage medium to another. This need may arise as due to the need to replicate data share resources across an organization provision one or more business units or users with certain datasets etc. In some instances this data may be encrypted e.g. within the database .

Typical approaches to migrating large amounts of encrypted data involve decrypting the data prior to transmission. Once decrypted the data is then transmitted to the target storage medium via a communication network . Finally depending on the requirements of the user the data is then once again re encrypting for storage at the target database. Unfortunately this is both time and resource intensive. Furthermore network transmission or latency issues can further compound the migration effort. There is currently no efficient means of migrating large amounts of encrypted data from a source database to a target database. Furthermore there is a need for a solution that reduces the number of processing steps required to fulfill a migration request.

To address this problem a system of introduces the capability for a user to manage the migration procedure required for transferring large amounts of encrypted data. In one embodiment the migration platform may be configured as a hosted solution as an operating component of UE or a combination thereof for performing the one or more of the following tasks 1 determine the submission of job requests and associated requirements thereof to be executed fulfilled as one or more tasks for migrating one or more datasets 2 initiate the execution or one or more threads for operating in parallel for carrying out the one or more tasks 3 reduce the amount of encrypting and or decrypting of data required for carrying out the one or more tasks and 4 determine the validity of the data as migrated to ensure data integrity and fulfillment of the migration job request. In addition the migration platform may execute various application programming interfaces APIs for facilitating interaction with the storage service accordingly as well as an applications of the UE for performing the aforementioned executions.

In one embodiment the UE referred to herein collectively as UE may be any type of mobile terminal fixed terminal or portable terminal including a mobile handset station unit device multimedia computer multimedia tablet Internet node communicator desktop computer laptop computer notebook computer netbook computer tablet computer personal communication system PCS device personal navigation device personal digital assistants PDAs audio video player digital camera camcorder positioning device television receiver radio broadcast receiver electronic book device game device or any combination thereof including the accessories and peripherals of these devices or any combination thereof. It is also contemplated that the UE can support any type of interface to the user such as wearable circuitry etc. .

The UE may enable network connectivity to the migration platform via a communication network . In addition the UE may operate applications referred to herein as application for initiating the submission of job requests to the migration platform . The job requests may specify one or more instructions procedures or criteria to be carried out for migrating a set of data. This may include for example a specification of the name and or location of the source database and the target database the location of the data and or reference information for the data within the source database data quantity or type information unique key information or a combination thereof. Additional conditions and or constraints may also be specified including bandwidth usage limits time of completion limits etc.

While not described expressly herein it is noted that the application may render a user interface to a display of the UE for supporting user access to the migration platform . Under this scenario the user interface may include various user controls i.e. buttons menus and data entry options for enabling a user to specify one or more of the above described instructions procedures or criteria. In addition the application may feature various executions for subscribing to and or logging into the migration platform for submitting jobs i.e. those requiring the migration of data .

In one embodiment the migration platform receives and processes job requests submitted via the application of UE . By way of example the migration platform determines the requirements associated with the request including the specified instructions procedures and or criteria then determines the necessary resources for fulfilling the request. In addition the migration platform maintains an execution queue for managing the order and or priority of execution of a given job. Jobs may be queued by the migration platform based on the requirements as well as the current availability and resource and processing capabilities of the servers databases etc. involved in the migration. As such a job pool may be maintained by the migration platform for scheduling and coordinating the execution of all of the jobs submitted by users of different UE .

For example in the case where a job involves migrating data maintained at a first database located at a first geographic location A to a second database located at a second geographic location B the migration platform may perform an analysis procedure to determine the ability and or availability of the storage service . Still further the availability and or accessibility of one or more key management systems KMS referred to herein as key managers may be determined. In addition current jobs queued as well as various network conditions i.e. traffic rates bandwidth conditions may also be accounted for in order to determine optimal resource use and allocation. It is noted that this analysis may be performed directly by the migration platform or in conjunction with the storage service . In the case of the former the migration platform may employ any known resource allocation or capacity planning techniques.

Still further in one embodiment the migration platform may divide a job into one or more tasks to be executed. Under this scenario each task may correspond to a particular execution required to be carried out for fulfilling the job request. In the case of the migrating of encrypted data for example this may include tasks for encrypting and or decrypting data which may further require the retrieval and or processing of cryptographic key information or the like from various sources. Another task may include the performing of a checksum or other data validation procedure. Ultimately fulfillment of a job request as submitted per the application is based on fulfillment of the individual tasks.

In one embodiment the migration platform may be configure to support multithreaded execution of various tasks. By way of example the migration platform may feature a thread pool executor for assigning one or more threads to each of the one or more tasks. The one or more tasks may further be maintained via a task queue wherein the number of threads associated with a given task is based on the number of tasks to be fulfilled the maximum number of allowable tasks etc. It is noted that the thread pool executor may be implemented by way of any known multithreaded programming language or interface execution including Java or JVM. As such the migration platform may execute tasks or subtasks concurrently in order to make optimal use of the available resources of the UE and or storage service . Still further in the case where the resources required to perform the migration employ multiple central processing units CPUs the multithreaded execution further extends the multitasking and resource sharing capability of said resources. This translates into reduced time and resource usage being required for performing the migration.

In one embodiment the migration platform may also be configured to execute specific instructions for interacting with a storage service . For example in the case where the source database and target database are associated with a common web service provider the migration platform may execute the required web service interface routines. Under this scenario the migration platform may retrieve the most up to date application programming interfaces APIs based on the requirements set forth during submission of the job request. This may include accessing a software developer toolkit or running an API update agent related to the specific storage service provider periodically or on demand. In the case of the latter the access or updating may be performed in response to the submission of a job for specifying a particular storage service or database type.

It is noted therefore that the migration platform may be implemented to operate in connection with any known storage services e.g. Amazon S3 Google Cloud Storage Rackspace Cloud Storage . Furthermore the migration platform may operate in accordance with any known database architectures models i.e. to accommodate different data object types storage types naming conventions definitions etc. As such the migration platform may support the translation of data conforming to one type or model for a source database into that conforming to the target database accordingly for fulfilling a migration request.

In addition to supporting multithreaded task execution the migration platform also reduces time and resource usage by managing the encryption decryption process. In one embodiment instead of decrypting the data to be migrated prior to transmission the migration platform is configured to only decrypt a digital envelope in which the data is encrypted. For the purpose of illustration the digital envelop may correspond to a container for encrypting enclosing protecting the data to be migrated using both secret key and public key cryptography methods. The secret key may be used to encrypt and decrypt the data while the public key may be used to send the secret key to a requesting party e.g. the storage service via the communication network .

In certain instances the data is encrypted with the digital envelope symmetric key and this envelope key is then further encrypted using a master key stored by a key manager referred to herein collectively as key manager . The migration platform is configured to interact with the key manager in order to retrieve and or upload encryption keys accordingly. A different key manager may be associated with the different databases for security purposes. So for example the encryption keys for data maintained by the source database may be maintained by a first key manager while the keys for the data as stored to the target database may be maintained by a second key manager . The encrypted digital envelope key as encrypted via the master key is thus stored to the corresponding key manager as metadata e.g. x provider name meta x provider name key . This metadata is further stored to the key manager alongside a data object conforming to the type of storage service in which the data is maintained. In addition other metadata e.g. x provider name meta x provider name matdesc for describing the encryption materials used for the encryption may also be specified in order to enable the identification of keys.

Under this scenario the migration platform retrieves the master key generated for and maintained by the key manager e.g. associated with the source database according to one embodiment. In addition the migration platform retrieves the master key maintained by the key manager e.g. associated with the target database . Once retrieved the migration platform then decrypts the encrypted envelope key using the retrieved master key associated with the source database then re encrypts the envelope key using the master key associated with the target database . Hence the envelope key for maintaining enclosing encrypting the original dataset is caused to be associated with the target database accordingly.

Per this approach the migration platform does not have to decrypt the data at the source database then re encrypt the data again for storage to the target database . Rather the data remains encrypted with the original envelope key digital envelope . The encryption decryption tasks to be carried out for fulfilling the job request are only performed upon the envelop key rather than upon the dataset to be migrated. Only the re encrypted envelop key and not the original data itself is transmitted to the target database for fulfilling the migration. It is noted that this execution which may be performed as a multithreaded concurrent procedure may present various advantages.

In one advantage performance of the encryption decryption processes on the envelope key digital envelope only reduces the overall time required to migrate data from a source to a target database. Similarly the amount of processing and or machine resources required to be used or allocated to perform the migration is minimized.

As another advantage certain of the encryption decryption procedures key retrieval and identification procedures and other tasks required to perform the migration may be executed in parallel as one or more threads. The one or more threads may operate in parallel for transferring encrypted data and unencrypted data along with the prepared metadata. Again this execution enhances the rate of data transfer as well as reduces the use of the resources required to for migrating the data. By way of example terabytes of data stored at the source database may be migrated to a target database within a few hours as opposed to several hours days.

Still further the parallel execution further enables rapid re generating of data object values for increasing the storing of the migrated data. As such in the case where a data object specifies a key value version information object access control information object resource information or a combination thereof for defining the object data and or metadata at the target database these values may be adapted rapidly. For example the value of a date partition as structured by date for the migrated data may be updated readily from that specified per the source database to that required for the target.

As another advantage the migration platform enables automated execution of runnable jobs as submitted via the application . Per this approach the migration platform can readily retrieve and decrypt the metadata envelop key using the fetched dataset asymmetric key master key as maintained by the source key manager and re encrypt the envelop key using the final public asymmetric key as maintained by the target key manager .

In one embodiment once the data is migrated per re encryption of the envelope key with the key associated with the target database the migration platform may further validate the integrity of the data as transferred. The validation includes for example the generating of a report for specifying the overall data migration results along with all successful and or failed data objects. By way of example the migration platform streams e.g. downloads retrieves and subsequently decrypts the dataset stored to the source database using the encryption keys stored by respective key management systems e.g. associated with the source and target databases. This may include for example retrieving the envelop key for decrypting the data within the digital envelope as well as retrieving the master key used to encrypt the digital envelope per the key manager associated with the source database . Once the data set is decrypted the migration platform then executes a message digest algorithm MD5 or other cryptographic data hash function against the data resulting in generation of checksum values. The migration platform may also maintain a data map for specifying a checksum value in connection with specific data objects as migrated.

The above described procedure is also performed against the data as stored to the target database. Under this scenario the envelop key for decrypting the data and the master key maintained by the key manager associated with the target database are retrieved. Once the data set is decrypted the migration platform then generates a checksum value for the decrypted dataset. Having generated different checksum values corresponding to the data at the source database and the other the target database the migration platform then compares the results to determine their affinity. Matching checksum values between respective data objects indicates the validity integrity of the data object as migrated while a discrepancy indicates a failed or invalid migration of said object e.g. dataset .

It is noted that performance of the validation procedure by the migration platform subsequent to the migration procedure offer various advantages. In one advantage the effectiveness of the approach of decrypting encrypting the envelope key as opposed to the data may be validated. As another advantage with large amounts e.g. petabytes of data are being migrated computing the checksum in connection with the mapping of the data enables invalid data objects to be readily identified. This may reduce the time i.e. from months to a few days and cost required for verifying large amounts of data.

The communication system of system may include one or more networks such as a data network a wireless network a telephony network or any combination thereof. It is contemplated that the data network may be any local area network LAN metropolitan area network MAN wide area network WAN a public data network e.g. the Internet short range wireless network or any other suitable packet switched network such as a commercially owned proprietary packet switched network e.g. a proprietary cable or fiber optic network and the like or any combination thereof. In addition the wireless network may be for example a cellular network and may employ various technologies including enhanced data rates for global evolution EDGE general packet radio service GPRS global system for mobile communications GSM Internet protocol multimedia subsystem IMS universal mobile telecommunications system UMTS etc. as well as any other suitable wireless medium e.g. worldwide interoperability for microwave access WiMAX Long Term Evolution LTE networks code division multiple access CDMA wideband code division multiple access WCDMA wireless fidelity WiFi wireless LAN WLAN Bluetooth Internet Protocol IP data casting satellite mobile ad hoc network MANET and the like or any combination thereof.

By way of example the UE migration platform and cluster based service communicate with each other and other components of the communication network using well known new or still developing protocols. In this context a protocol includes a set of rules defining how the network nodes within the communication network interact with each other based on information sent over the communication links. The protocols are effective at different layers of operation within each node from generating and receiving physical signals of various types to selecting a link for transferring those signals to the format of information indicated by those signals to identifying which software application executing on a computer system sends or receives the information. The conceptually different layers of protocols for exchanging information over a network are described in the Open Systems Interconnection OSI Reference Model.

Communications between the network nodes are typically effected by exchanging discrete packets of data. Each packet typically comprises 1 header information associated with a particular protocol and 2 payload information that follows the header information and contains information that may be processed independently of that particular protocol. In some protocols the packet includes 3 trailer information following the payload and indicating the end of the payload information. The header includes information such as the source of the packet its destination the length of the payload and other properties used by the protocol. Often the data in the payload for the particular protocol includes a header and payload for a different protocol associated with a different higher layer of the OSI Reference Model. The header for a particular protocol typically indicates a type for the next protocol contained in its payload. The higher layer protocol is said to be encapsulated in the lower layer protocol. The headers included in a packet traversing multiple heterogeneous networks such as the Internet typically include a physical layer 1 header a data link layer 2 header an internetwork layer 3 header and a transport layer 4 header and various application layer 5 layer 6 and layer 7 headers as defined by the OSI Reference Model.

An authentication module authenticates users and UE for interaction with the migration platform . In the case of an initial accessing of the migration platform a registration procedure may be performed. The registration may include facilitating the downloading of the application to the UE of the user. Furthermore the user and or UE may establish a profile with the migration platform .

The authentication module may also receive a job request involving the migrating of data from a source database to a target database. Requests may be received from the application and processed to determine the requirements parameters instructions and or constraints set forth for fulfilling the job. This may include for example a specification of the name and or location of the source database and the target database the location of the data and or reference information for the data within the source database data quantity or type information unique key information or a combination thereof. Additional conditions and or constraints may also be specified including bandwidth usage limits time of completion limits etc.

A key access module operates in connection with the communication module to retrieve keys from the key manager . The key managers may be a service utilized by the user for maintaining encryption keys generated for use by requesting programs and applications. Under this scenario the keys are requested by the key access module in response to the execution of a migration task job request by the execution module . In addition to retrieving keys the key access module may be called upon by the execution module to generate keys such as in in the case where an envelope key digital envelope for encompassing data to be migrated is to be re encrypted utilizing a master key corresponding to the target database. Furthermore the key access module may be called upon by the execution module to decrypt keys such as in the case where an envelope key is to be decrypted utilizing a master key associated with a key manager corresponding to the source database.

A queueing module receives a notice from the authentication module of incoming jobs to be performed and queues the jobs accordingly. This includes for example identifying and or breaking the jobs up into various executable tasks. In addition the queuing module operates in connection with the execution module to maintain a task queue for coordinating the sequence and or order of execution of tasks. Within the context of a multi parallel processing environment the execution module supports the execution of multiple threads thereby assigning one or more threads to each of the one or more tasks that are queued. It is further noted that the execution module may operate in connection with the authentication module to determine the job requirements as well as interact with the storage service to determine its current status in order to determine the assignment of threads. Per this approach the execution module may receive necessary conditional feedback for optimizing allocation of resources and sequence of execution of various tasks.

The execution module also initiates the various tasks to be performed in conjunction with the queueing module and key access module including the retrieval of keys the decrypting and re encrypting of digital envelopes the transmission of said digital envelopes over the communication network via the communication module etc. Still further the execution module performs validation of the migrated data as stored to the target database. This may include for example executing a message digest algorithm MD5 or other cryptographic data hash function against the data e.g. each data object resulting in generation of checksum values. The migration platform may also maintain a data map for specifying a checksum value in connection with the specific data objects as migrated. Consequently the execution module may perform a comparison of the pre and post migration data to validate the integrity of the migration of data from the source to the target database accordingly.

A communication module enables formation of a session over a network between the migration platform and the application the key manager and the storage service . By way of example the communication module executes various protocols and data sharing techniques for enabling collaborative execution between a UE e.g. mobile devices laptops smartphones tablet computers desktop computers and the migration platform over the network . Still further the communication module may be configured to retrieve application programming interfaces and other data tools required for enabling the migration platform to interact with a specific storage service.

A user interface module enables presentment of a graphical user interface for interacting with the migration platform via the UE . Under this scenario the user interface may include various user controls i.e. buttons menus and data entry options for enabling a user of UE to submit jobs i.e. those requiring the migration of data . The user interface module may interact with the communication module for supporting the generation and display of graphics primitives the submission of input etc. via the application .

The above presented modules and components of the migration platform can be implemented in hardware firmware software or a combination thereof. While the migration platform may be implemented as a platform or hosted for interacting with UE it is also contemplated that it may be implemented for direct operation by respective UE . Per this approach some of the executions of the above described components may be performed at the UE wherein the migration platform generates direct signal inputs by way of the operating system of the UE for interacting with the storage service. The exemplary embodiments herein may correspond to any of these implementations.

In step of process the migration platform determines the submission of a request to migrate data from a source database to a target database based on the execution of one or more threads for fulfilling the request. As noted the request may be submitted by way of the application of the UE . In another step the platform processes and or facilitates a processing of a master key associated with the source database to decrypt an envelope key associated with the data to be migrated. As noted previously the master key associated with the source database may be that corresponding to the original old key manager .

In steps the migration platform retrieves a master key associated with the target database. In addition the platform retrieves the master key associated with the source database based on the request. In another step the platform encrypts the envelope key based on the master key associated with the target database. As noted previously per this approach the encrypting of the envelope key with the master key of the target database corresponds to an associating of the original data with the keys of the target database and key manager. This association of the data with the target is achieved without requiring a decrypting of the original dataset to be migrated.

In step of process the migration platform migrates the data from the source database to the target database based on the encryption of the envelope key the execution of the one or more threads or a combination thereof. Hence the one or more threads may perform the migration of the data or sets thereof concurrently. Per step the platform stores the encrypted envelope key to the target database in association with at least one data object. The migration of the data is based on the storing of the data wherein the storing of the data conforms to the encryption requirements of the target database. As mentioned previously the at least one data object may include a the data the metadata or a combination thereof b a key value version information object access control information object resource information or a combination thereof associated with the target database or c a combination thereof. It is further noted that data objects may vary from one storage service to another.

In the migration platform performs various validation procedures for determining the effectiveness of the data migration steps of . Per step of process the platform retrieves a metadata for specifying the envelope key associated with the data at the source database the target database or a combination thereof b the master key associated with the source database the target database or a combination thereof c the data at the source database the target database or a combination thereof or d a combination thereof based on the migration of the data from the source database to the target database. In step the migration platform decrypts the data at the source database the target database or a combination thereof based on a the metadata for specifying the envelope key associated with the data at the source database the target database or a combination thereof b the master key associated with the source database the target database or a combination thereof c the data at the source database the target database or a combination thereof or d a combination thereof based on the retrieval.

In step of process the migration platform determines a a checksum result to associate with the decrypted data at the source database a checksum result to associate with the decrypted data at the target database or a combination thereof based on a validation procedure b a data map associated with the decrypted data at the source database a data map associated with the decrypted data at the target database or a combination thereof or c a combination thereof. As mentioned the validation procedure may be performed according to any known validation techniques.

In another step the migration platform compares the checksum result associated with the decrypted data at the source database to the checksum result associated with the decrypted data at the target database to determine a validity of the decrypted data at the target database. As noted this corresponds to a comparison of the respective data objects as migrated from a pre and post migration perspective thus enabling the migration platform to validate the integrity of the migration of data from the source to the target database accordingly. Per step the platform generates a report for specifying the validity of the decrypted data the fulfillment of the request or a combination thereof. In the case of invalidity errors the report may specify the specific data objects that are invalid per the data mapping results.

Once a job request involving the migration of data from the source data storage to the target data storage is submitted the migration platform invokes the execution of various tasks and or corresponding threads. This includes for example retrieving the original data encryption metadata from the source database corresponding to steps and . In another step the migration platform generates a request to retrieve the decryption key from the original key manager . By way of example the request may be initiated as a REST API call for transmission as a hypertext transfer protocol message. The key manager then returns the key as requested per step .

In step the migration platform retrieves the new encryption public key as stored in the target data storage . In response to the request the target data storage then returns the key as requested per step . Alternatively the key may be acquired from the key manager associated with the target data storage not shown .

In step the migration platform re encrypts the envelop key digital envelop and copies the data with the re encrypted key metadata to the target data storage . In response the target data storage species that the new data with the re encrypted envelope key metadata is successfully stored in the target data storage corresponding to step . It is contemplated in certain embodiments that the migration platform may further generate a message to the user interface of the application for indicating completion of the data migration task.

In the migration platform initiates a data verification process against the migrated data by first requesting the downloading of the original data encryption metadata per step . The data storage then returns this data to the migration platform per step and the platform further submits a request to retrieve the original master key from the key manager associated with the original data storage per step . In step this data is then returned to the platform . It is noted that the request may be initiated as a REST API call for transmission as a hypertext transfer protocol message.

In step the migration platform also downloads and decrypts the data using the original master key maintained by the key manager . In another step the downloaded data as enveloped is then decrypted and processed by way of a validation procedure. This may include for example execution of a MD5 checksum against the data along with mapping of the data according to any known data mapping techniques.

In steps the migration platform requests a downloading of the newly migrated data encryption metadata. The data storage then returns this data to the migration platform per step and the platform further submits a request to retrieve the new master key from the key manager per step . In step this data is then returned to the platform by the key manager . It is noted that the request may be initiated as a REST API call for transmission as a hypertext transfer protocol message.

In step the migration platform also downloads and decrypts the data using the original master key maintained by the key manager . In another step the downloaded data as enveloped is then decrypted and processed by way of a validation procedure. This may include for example execution of a MD5 checksum against the data along with mapping of the data according to any known data mapping techniques.

Pursuant to calculation of the checksum procedures corresponding to steps and the migration platform may further compare the results to determine if any invalid results occurred. The results may be further rendered to a display of the requesting service for reporting the results of the migration. Results may include a message for indicating fulfillment of the job the completion of specific tasks associated with the job the migrating of specific data or portions thereof the comparison results etc. In addition the data map may be reported for indicating which data objects if any have discrepancies.

The processes described herein for managing the migration of large amounts of encrypted data may be advantageously implemented via software hardware firmware or a combination of software and or firmware and or hardware. For example the processes described herein may be advantageously implemented via processor s Digital Signal Processing DSP chip an Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC Field Programmable Gate Arrays FPGAs etc. Such exemplary hardware for performing the described functions is detailed below.

A bus includes one or more parallel conductors of information so that information is transferred quickly among devices coupled to the bus . One or more processors for processing information are coupled with the bus .

A processor or multiple processors performs a set of operations on information as specified by computer program code related to manage the migration of large amounts of encrypted data. The computer program code is a set of instructions or statements providing instructions for the operation of the processor and or the computer system to perform specified functions. The code for example may be written in a computer programming language that is compiled into a native instruction set of the processor. The code may also be written directly using the native instruction set e.g. machine language . The set of operations include bringing information in from the bus and placing information on the bus . The set of operations also typically include comparing two or more units of information shifting positions of units of information and combining two or more units of information such as by addition or multiplication or logical operations like OR exclusive OR XOR and AND. Each operation of the set of operations that can be performed by the processor is represented to the processor by information called instructions such as an operation code of one or more digits. A sequence of operations to be executed by the processor such as a sequence of operation codes constitute processor instructions also called computer system instructions or simply computer instructions. Processors may be implemented as mechanical electrical magnetic optical chemical or quantum components among others alone or in combination.

Computer system also includes a memory coupled to bus . The memory such as a random access memory RAM or any other dynamic storage device stores information including processor instructions for managing the migration of large amounts of encrypted data. Dynamic memory allows information stored therein to be changed by the computer system . RAM allows a unit of information stored at a location called a memory address to be stored and retrieved independently of information at neighboring addresses. The memory is also used by the processor to store temporary values during execution of processor instructions. The computer system also includes a read only memory ROM or any other static storage device coupled to the bus for storing static information including instructions that is not changed by the computer system . Some memory is composed of volatile storage that loses the information stored thereon when power is lost. Also coupled to bus is a non volatile persistent storage device such as a magnetic disk optical disk or flash card for storing information including instructions that persists even when the computer system is turned off or otherwise loses power.

Information including instructions for managing the migration of large amounts of encrypted data is provided to the bus for use by the processor from an external input device such as a keyboard containing alphanumeric keys operated by a human user a microphone an Infrared IR remote control a joystick a game pad a stylus pen a touch screen or a sensor. A sensor detects conditions in its vicinity and transforms those detections into physical expression compatible with the measurable phenomenon used to represent information in computer system . Other external devices coupled to bus used primarily for interacting with humans include a display device such as a cathode ray tube CRT a liquid crystal display LCD a light emitting diode LED display an organic LED OLED display a plasma screen or a printer for presenting text or images and a pointing device such as a mouse a trackball cursor direction keys or a motion sensor for controlling a position of a small cursor image presented on the display and issuing commands associated with graphical elements presented on the display . In some embodiments for example in embodiments in which the computer system performs all functions automatically without human input one or more of external input device display device and pointing device is omitted.

In the illustrated embodiment special purpose hardware such as an application specific integrated circuit ASIC is coupled to bus . The special purpose hardware is configured to perform operations not performed by processor quickly enough for special purposes. Examples of ASICs include graphics accelerator cards for generating images for display cryptographic boards for encrypting and decrypting messages sent over a network speech recognition and interfaces to special external devices such as robotic arms and medical scanning equipment that repeatedly perform some complex sequence of operations that are more efficiently implemented in hardware.

Computer system also includes one or more instances of a communications interface coupled to bus . Communication interface provides a one way or two way communication coupling to a variety of external devices that operate with their own processors such as printers scanners and external disks. In general the coupling is with a network link that is connected to a local network to which a variety of external devices with their own processors are connected. For example communication interface may be a parallel port or a serial port or a universal serial bus USB port on a personal computer. In some embodiments communications interface is an integrated services digital network ISDN card or a digital subscriber line DSL card or a telephone modem that provides an information communication connection to a corresponding type of telephone line. In some embodiments a communication interface is a cable modem that converts signals on bus into signals for a communication connection over a coaxial cable or into optical signals for a communication connection over a fiber optic cable. As another example communications interface may be a local area network LAN card to provide a data communication connection to a compatible LAN such as Ethernet. Wireless links may also be implemented. For wireless links the communications interface sends or receives or both sends and receives electrical acoustic or electromagnetic signals including infrared and optical signals that carry information streams such as digital data. For example in wireless handheld devices such as mobile telephones like cell phones the communications interface includes a radio band electromagnetic transmitter and receiver called a radio transceiver. In certain embodiments the communications interface enables connection to the communication network for managing the migration of large amounts of encrypted data to the UE .

The term computer readable medium as used herein refers to any medium that participates in providing information to processor including instructions for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to computer readable storage medium e.g. non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. Non transitory media such as non volatile media include for example optical or magnetic disks such as storage device . Volatile media include for example dynamic memory . Transmission media include for example twisted pair cables coaxial cables copper wire fiber optic cables and carrier waves that travel through space without wires or cables such as acoustic waves and electromagnetic waves including radio optical and infrared waves. Signals include man made transient variations in amplitude frequency phase polarization or other physical properties transmitted through the transmission media. Common forms of computer readable media include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium a CD ROM CDRW DVD any other optical medium punch cards paper tape optical mark sheets any other physical medium with patterns of holes or other optically recognizable indicia a RAM a PROM an EPROM a FLASH EPROM an EEPROM a flash memory any other memory chip or cartridge a carrier wave or any other medium from which a computer can read. The term computer readable storage medium is used herein to refer to any computer readable medium except transmission media.

Logic encoded in one or more tangible media includes one or both of processor instructions on a computer readable storage media and special purpose hardware such as ASIC .

Network link typically provides information communication using transmission media through one or more networks to other devices that use or process the information. For example network link may provide a connection through local network to a host computer or to equipment operated by an Internet Service Provider ISP . ISP equipment in turn provides data communication services through the public world wide packet switching communication network of networks now commonly referred to as the Internet .

A computer called a server host connected to the Internet hosts a process that provides a service in response to information received over the Internet. For example server host hosts a process that provides information representing video data for presentation at display . It is contemplated that the components of system can be deployed in various configurations within other computer systems e.g. host and server .

At least some embodiments of the invention are related to the use of computer system for implementing some or all of the techniques described herein. According to one embodiment of the invention those techniques are performed by computer system in response to processor executing one or more sequences of one or more processor instructions contained in memory . Such instructions also called computer instructions software and program code may be read into memory from another computer readable medium such as storage device or network link . Execution of the sequences of instructions contained in memory causes processor to perform one or more of the method steps described herein. In alternative embodiments hardware such as ASIC may be used in place of or in combination with software to implement the invention. Thus embodiments of the invention are not limited to any specific combination of hardware and software unless otherwise explicitly stated herein.

The signals transmitted over network link and other networks through communications interface carry information to and from computer system . Computer system can send and receive information including program code through the networks among others through network link and communications interface . In an example using the Internet a server host transmits program code for a particular application requested by a message sent from computer through Internet ISP equipment local network and communications interface . The received code may be executed by processor as it is received or may be stored in memory or in storage device or any other non volatile storage for later execution or both. In this manner computer system may obtain application program code in the form of signals on a carrier wave.

Various forms of computer readable media may be involved in carrying one or more sequence of instructions or data or both to processor for execution. For example instructions and data may initially be carried on a magnetic disk of a remote computer such as host . The remote computer loads the instructions and data into its dynamic memory and sends the instructions and data over a telephone line using a modem. A modem local to the computer system receives the instructions and data on a telephone line and uses an infra red transmitter to convert the instructions and data to a signal on an infra red carrier wave serving as the network link . An infrared detector serving as communications interface receives the instructions and data carried in the infrared signal and places information representing the instructions and data onto bus . Bus carries the information to memory from which processor retrieves and executes the instructions using some of the data sent with the instructions. The instructions and data received in memory may optionally be stored on storage device either before or after execution by the processor .

In one embodiment the chip set or chip includes a communication mechanism such as a bus for passing information among the components of the chip set . A processor has connectivity to the bus to execute instructions and process information stored in for example a memory . The processor may include one or more processing cores with each core configured to perform independently. A multi core processor enables multiprocessing within a single physical package. Examples of a multi core processor include two four eight or greater numbers of processing cores. Alternatively or in addition the processor may include one or more microprocessors configured in tandem via the bus to enable independent execution of instructions pipelining and multithreading. The processor may also be accompanied with one or more specialized components to perform certain processing functions and tasks such as one or more digital signal processors DSP or one or more application specific integrated circuits ASIC . A DSP typically is configured to process real world signals e.g. sound in real time independently of the processor . Similarly an ASIC can be configured to performed specialized functions not easily performed by a more general purpose processor. Other specialized components to aid in performing the inventive functions described herein may include one or more field programmable gate arrays FPGA one or more controllers or one or more other special purpose computer chips.

In one embodiment the chip set or chip includes merely one or more processors and some software and or firmware supporting and or relating to and or for the one or more processors.

The processor and accompanying components have connectivity to the memory via the bus . The memory includes both dynamic memory e.g. RAM magnetic disk writable optical disk etc. and static memory e.g. ROM CD ROM etc. for storing executable instructions that when executed perform the inventive steps described herein to manage the migration of large amounts of encrypted data. The memory also stores the data associated with or generated by the execution of the inventive steps.

While the invention has been described in connection with a number of embodiments and implementations the invention is not so limited but covers various obvious modifications and equivalent arrangements which fall within the purview of the appended claims. Although features of the invention are expressed in certain combinations among the claims it is contemplated that these features can be arranged in any combination and order.

