---

title: Plasma-assisted techniques for fabricating semiconductor devices
abstract: Plasma-assisted techniques are provided for fabricating semiconductor devices. In one aspect, a plasma is applied to a substrate before exfoliating layers of a multi-layer structure of atomically thin two-dimensional sheets onto the substrate. The exfoliated layers serve as the basis for constructing a semiconductor device. In another aspect, a p-n junction is formed by applying a plasma to top layers of a multi-layer structure of atomically thin two-dimensional sheets and then exfoliating a portion of the multi-layer structure onto a bottom electrode.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09373742&OS=09373742&RS=09373742
owner: The Regents Of The University Of Michigan
number: 09373742
owner_city: Ann Arbor
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150306
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 948 633 filed on Mar. 6 2014. The entire disclosure of the above application is incorporated herein by reference.

This invention was made with government support under CMMI1232883 awarded by the National Science Foundation. The Government has certain rights in the invention.

Molybdenum disulfide MoS belongs to the family of the layered transition metal dichalcogenides LTMDs . It has been widely used as a dry lubricant and as a catalyst for desulfurization in petroleum refineries. Recently MoSattracted a great deal of attention because of its attractive electronic optoelectronic and mechanical properties. In the bulk form MoSis an indirect bandgap semiconductor with an energy gap of 1.2 eV. In the monolayer form MoS2 has a large direct bandgap 1.8 eV . Therefore MoScan serve as an important complement to zero bandgap graphene and enable new semiconductor related applications of two dimensional 2 D materials such as thin film transistors TFTs phototransistors chemical sensors integrated circuits ICs and thin film light emitting diodes LEDs . As a 2 D nanoelectronic material MoSis advantageous over bulk Si for suppressing the undesirable tunneling between drain and source regions at the scaling limit of transistors and therefore provides benefits for miniaturization of electronic devices beyond Moore s Law. In addition bulk or multilayer MoSexhibits relatively high in plane carrier mobility comparable to that of crystalline Si as well as robust mechanical and chemical properties which makes it an attractive material for making flexible electronic devices with high performance and long lifetime.

A broad variety of prototype devices based on few layer MoS such as high performance field effect transistors FETs phototransistors sensors and integrated circuits ICs have been fabricated and extensively studied in research laboratories. However the scale up applications of MoS especially the mass production of commercially viable products demand large arrays of orderly arranged MoSstructures. This requirement breaks down into two critical challenges in nanomanufacturing which are 1 incorporating pristine MoSfilms over large areas and 2 patterning MoSinto ordered micro and nanostructures over large areas to obtain both desirable electronic properties and required functionality. Several approaches have been attempted to produce MoSmaterials for large area applications including scotch tape exfoliation liquid phase exfoliation in an organic solvent intercalation followed with forced hydration transition metal sulfurization thermal decomposition of thiosalts chemical vapor deposition CVD and van der Waals epitaxial growth etc. So far a few efforts have been invested to the lithographic patterning of MoSsheets and the deposition of MoScrystals into ordered arrays. All of these technologies for producing MoSstructures still suffer from one or more obstacles that prevent the creation of ordered pristine MoSdevice arrays over large areas. Obviously an upscalable nanomanufacturing technology capable of producing ordered and pristine few layer MoSpatterns would have a transformative impact on future manufacturing of MoSelectronic and optoelectronic devices and systems.

This section provides background information related to the present disclosure which is not necessarily prior art.

This section provides a general summary of the disclosure and is not a comprehensive disclosure of its full scope or all of its features.

In one aspect of this disclosure a plasma assisted method is provided for fabricating a semiconductor device. The method includes forming one or more protrusions on a top surface of a plate using lithographic techniques where the plate is a multi layer structure of atomically thin two dimensional sheets exfoliating layers of the protrusions from the top surface of the plate by pressing the top surface of the plate against a planar surface of a substrate applying a plasma to the planar surface of the substrate before the step of exfoliating and constructing a semiconductor device in part from the exfoliated layers of protrusions on the planar surface of the substrate. Prior to forming the one or more protrusions the plate may be attached to a flexible tape.

Forming the one or more protrusions may be achieved by applying a photoresist layer on the top surface of the plate depositing a metal mask onto the top surface of the plate plasma etching the top surface of the plate to form the one or more protrusions and removing the metal mask from the one or more protrusions.

Plasma can be applied for example using reactive ion etching. In some embodiment the plasma contains one of oxygen or flouride.

In another aspect of this disclosure a plasma assisted method is provided for fabricating a p n junction of a semiconductor device. The method includes forming one or more protrusions on a top surface of an ingot using lithographic techniques where the ingot is a multi layer structure of atomically thin two dimensional sheets doping the one or more protrusions by applying a plasma thereto and exfoliating layers of a given protrusion from the top surface of the ingot by pressing the top surface of the ingot against a planar surface of a bottom electrode. The method further includes forming a top electrode of the semiconductor device by depositing a transparent material onto the exfoliated layers of the given protrusion.

In some embodiments each sheet of the multi layer structure of atomically thin sheets is comprised of a transition metal dichaelcogenide and the transition metal dichalcogenide material has a larger concentration of electrons than holes and thus the step of doping occurs prior to the step of exfoliating. In other embodiments the transition metal dichalcogenide material has a larger concentration of holes than electrons and thus the step of exfoliating occurs prior to the step of doping.

Further areas of applicability will become apparent from the description provided herein. The description and specific examples in this summary are intended for purposes of illustration only and are not intended to limit the scope of the present disclosure.

Corresponding reference numerals indicate corresponding parts throughout the several views of the drawings.

Photolithography is performed to pattern a photoresist layer spin coated on top of the MoSsurface as seen in . To pattern microscale relief features on the bulk MoS a 1.4 m thick photoresist layer is spun onto the MoSsurface and exposed on a Karl Suss MA6 photoaligner. The photomask used for this work bears periodic pillar patterns with pillar diameters ranging from 3 to 10 m. Arrays of metal masks are then created by depositing 100 nm Ti using electron beam evaporation followed with lift off in acetone as shown in .

In SF based reactive ion etching RIE is performed to transfer the Ti mask pattern onto underlying MoS. In this example the Ti mask patterns are etched onto the underlying MoSusing a SF based RIE recipe i.e. SFflow rate 20 sccm pressure 20 mTorr power 200 W with an etching rate of 100 nm min. In Ti masks are completely removed for example in hydrofluoric HF acid thereby creating a bulk MoSstamp. In a SiOsubstrate is treated by Oplasma to generate electric charges on the surface. Finally the bulk MoSstamp is used for printing out MoSflake arrays onto the SiOsubstrate as seen in . To perform a transfer printing process a bulk MoSstamp and a SiO Si substrate are firmly pressed to each other by using a lab made pressing system that can generate a gauge pressure up to 3 MPa for contact printing. To enhance the bonding strength between the MoSflakes and the SiOsurface an O based plasma recipe i.e. Oflow rate 50 sccm pressure 25 mTorr power 100 W time duration 2 min is used to treat the SiOsurface before the printing step. Variants of the plasma recipe are contemplated by this disclosure. For example durations on the order of 10 20 seconds may also been found to be effective. Such a plasma treatment is expected to introduce uniformly distributed electric charges on the SiOsurface that can provide additional electrostatic attractive stress for exfoliating prepatterned few layer MoSflakes from the bulk stamp.

After the printing process the printed MoSpatterns can be imaged by using a scanning electron microscope SEM in secondary electron and back scattered modes as well as an optical microscope. An atomic force microscope AFM is employed to measure the thickness of printed MoSfeatures in the tapping mode. In addition an x ray energy dispersive spectrometer EDS integrated with a SEM system is used to confirm the presence of MoSfeatures within the printed areas.

This technique can be generalized as shown in . First one or more protrusions are formed at on a top surface of a plate using photolithographic techniques such as those described above. Other types of microfabrication techniques for forming the protrusions are also contemplated by this disclosure. The plate is a multi layer structure of atomically thin two dimensional sheets. Example materials for the sheets include molybdenum disulfide MoS graphene boron nitride and other transition metal dichalcogenides.

A plasma is then applied at to a planar surface of a substrate for example by reactive ion etching. The plasma preferably contains oxygen or fluoride although other types of plasmas may be suitable. The material for the substrate are ones typically used in sold state electronics including but not limited to silicon silicon dioxide aluminum oxide sapphire germanium gallium arsenide etc.

Next layers of the protrusions are exfoliated at from the top surface of the plate onto the planar surface of the substrate. In one example the layers are exfoliated by pressing the top surface of the plate against the planar surface of the substrate for example using a pressing tool.

Lastly a semiconductor device is constructed at in part from the exfoliated layers residing on the substrate. For example to fabricate back gated MoSFETs the metallic drain source contacts 5 nm Ti 55 nm Au are fabricated by photolithography or electron beam lithography EBL followed with metal deposition and lift off. In particular photolithography is used for fabricating FETs based on the inner flakes of MoSpixels and EBL is used for fabricating FETs based on the outer edge ribbons of MoSpixels. Another metallic contact is made onto the p Si substrate which serves as a back gate contact. The device characteristic curves of these FETs can be measured using an Agilent 4145B semiconductor parameter analyzer.

This process can generate MoSdevice patterns directly from pristine geographic MoSmaterials that have the largest crystalline domains typically 1 to 100 s m size and the best electronic properties to date. Further this approach can be generalized for manufacturing other emerging atomically layered nanomaterials such as graphene boron nitride BN and topological insulator thin films. It should be noted that such a plasma assisted transfer printing process is significantly advantageous over voltage based electrostatic exfoliation methods for creating atomically layered materials in terms of application scope and printing uniformity. In particular plasma assisted printing can be applied to any substrates with a dielectric layer whereas voltage based exfoliation processes can only be used for conductive substrates. Furthermore plasma induced surface charges are usually immobilized and uniformly distributed over dielectric substrates and therefore result in uniform attractive stress for printing MoSfeatures over large areas. However voltage generated free charges are movable in the conductive substrate and they tend to accumulate at locations with the smallest stamp substrate gap resulting in nonuniform electrostatic printing stress and a high risk of electrical leakage.

Continuing with the example embodiment described in scanning electronic micrographs SEMs were obtained of an exemplary MoS2 stamp prepatterned with 5 m size 600 nm high pillars. A zoomed view shows that the SFplasma etched area exhibits a relatively high roughness that is attributed to plasma etching or ion bombardment. However the raised pillar mesas protected by the Ti masks are still as smooth as a pristine MoSsurface. This should yield a conformal contact with the flat substrate during a mechanical printing process and therefore a high transfer printing efficiency of MoSflakes. The images captured over a large printed area 1 cm show that the mechanical printing process can produce large area orderly paved arrays of MoSpixel features. However most of the printed pixels have relatively irregular edge profiles that are not faithfully correlated to the edge profiles of pillars pre structured on the bulk stamp.

The thickness data of MoSpixels were obtained by using an atomic force microscope AFM . For each of printed MoSpixels the average flake thickness was extracted from AFM topographic data. plots the statistical distribution of the average thickness data of 100 MoSflake pixels of 10 m size produced in a single transfer printing cycle. shows that the overall average flake thickness is measured to be 4.1 nm 6 monolayers and the standard deviation is 2.2 nm 3 monolayers over 1 cmarea. About 95 and 80 of printed MoSflakes are thinner than 10 nm and 5 nm respectively.

Multiple SEM images were taken of MoSpatterns printed onto an Oplasma charged SiOsubstrate. These images show that the printing process on plasma charged substrates can produce large area orderly arranged arrays of MoSflake pixels with a higher uniformity of pixel profiles in comparison with the printing result on a pristine substrate. In particular MoSpixel patterns feature clear well defined edge profiles that are faithfully correlated to the edge profiles of pillars pre structured on the bulk stamp. Zoomed images reveal that the clear edge profile of a MoSpixel is indeed made up of a ring shaped MoSribbon. Such outer edge ribbons of MoSpixels have widths ranging from 200 to 400 nm. Besides these edge ribbon features there are indeed thinner MoSfilms or flakes located in the inner regions of printed pixels enclosed by the edge ribbons. These inner MoSflakes typically exhibit a poor feature contrast in secondary electron images. To enhance the SEM contrast printed MoSpixels were also imaged by detecting back scattered electrons BSEs which are often used to detect contrast between areas with different chemical compositions. The BSE image contrast suggests the presence of thin MoSflakes within each of pixels. X ray energy dispersive spectrometer EDS spectra were captured from the edge ribbons as well as the inner films of MoSpixels. The EDS results confirm the presence of sulfur and molybdenum in both the edge and inner portions of printed pixels. The spatial variation of BSE image contrast and the EDS intensity of MoS associated peaks suggest an inter pixel variation of MoSflake thickness over the printed substrate. To obtain the inner flake thickness data MoSpixels with partially broken inner films were imaged by using AFM and the thickness of an inner MoSflake was measured from its broken edges.

To obtain a preliminary understanding of plasma assisted printing mechanisms responsible for the resultant morphology of MoSpixels Maxwell stress tensor calculation was performed and used for evaluating the distribution of surface charge induced electrostatic attractive stress between the bulk MoS2 stamp and the dielectric substrate. illustrates the 2 D model for the calculation in which a plasma charged SiO2 substrate is in contact with a bulk MoS2 stamp and the surface charge density is arbitrarily set to 0.05 C m. plots the calculated attractive stress exerted by the plasma charged SiO2 substrate on the bulk MoS2 stamp as a function of positions. shows the zoomed view of attractive stress distribution within a single MoS2 mesa in contact with SiO2 surface. It is found that the attractive stress acting on a microscale MoS2 mesa is uniform in the central region of the mesa but is significantly increased along the mesa edges due to the fringe effect. During a transfer printing process such high attractive stress at the mesa edges is expected to result in the exfoliation of MoS2 flake pixels with well defined edges as experimentally demonstrated. In addition the strong electric field at the MoS2 SiO2 interface is expected to influence dispersion and dipole interactions of atoms there and therefore change the cohesive energy of MoS2 layers close to the SiO2 surface. This could lead to a dependence of the number of printed MoS2 monolayers on the field magnitude which could qualitatively explain the experimental result that for MoS2 pixels printed on plasma charged substrates the edge portions are statistically thicker than the inner flakes as shown in .

Although plasma assisted printing can produce large area arrays of microscale MoS2 pixels with regular edge profiles many pixels have broken areas in their central regions. This can be attributed to several possible reasons including the limited size of crystalline domains in bulk MoS nonuniformity of attractive stress within a microscale MoSpixel mesa as discussed in the simulation analysis and the paradigm rule that the direct exfoliation of a large area atomic layer e.g. a complete microscale MoSpixel film free of defects is thermodynamically unfavorable. Such an analysis suggests that it is indeed desirable to prepattern bulk MoSstamps with densely arranged nanostructures that can improve the printing fidelity and eliminate the defects in the middle of printed patterns. In addition such relief nanostructures are expected to generate the higher fringe field during printing processes because of the higher density of sharp feature edges and result in the higher transfer printing efficiency of MoSfeatures. A scalable process for patterning nanostructures on bulk MoS2 is envisioned. Nanopatterning of highly oriented pyrolytic graphite HOPG stamps with 100 nm half pitch gratings has been realized using nanoimprint lithography as shown in . shows SEM images of 100 nm half pitch graphene nanoribbons GNRs produced by using plasma assisted transfer printing. The printed GNRs exhibit a high degree of uniformity in ribbon widths over large areas and do not exhibit any visible defects in the middle of individual ribbons. The thickness of GNRs was measured to be 2.0 1.0 nm by using an AFM. This work demonstrates that 1 nanoscale defect free atomic layer patterns can be more easily produced by using plasma assisted printing in comparison with microscale ones 2 plasma assisted printing can be generalized for producing high quality nanostructures of other atomically layered materials.

To evaluate the electronic properties of printed MoSflakes field effect transistors FETs were fabricated using MoSpixels printed on plasma charged SiO p Si substrates. shows a BSE image of an inner flake of a MoS2 pixel that was used to fabricate a back gated FET with flake thickness of 5 nm channel length of L 5.4 m average channel width of W 3.7 m and gate dielectric thickness of d 330 nm. plots drain source current IDS drain source voltage VDS characteristics of this exemplary FET under different gate voltages VG ranging from 75 to 100 V. plots the I Vcharacteristics under a fixed drain source voltage V 10 V . As shown in this FET exhibits n type conduction with an ON OFF current ratio I I of 10. The transconductance at the linear region of the I Vcharacteristic curve was obtained to be dl d 1.60 S by the linear fitting denoted with the solid line in the inset of . The field effect mobility was estimated to be 22 cm Vs by using equation 1 valid for the linear region of MoS based FETs with microscale channel widths where is the vacuum permittivity d 3.9 is the dielectric constant of SiO Cis the gate capacitance W L is the width length ratio of the MoS2 flake channel. The field effect mobility values obtained from other FETs made from the inner flakes of printed MoS2 pixels range from 6 44 cm V s which are comparable to the highest mobility values previously reported for MoSFETs using SiOas the gate dielectric. This indicates that this transfer printing approach can produce high quality MoS2 features and are suitable for practical nanoelectronic applications.

FETs were also fabricated using the ring shaped edge ribbons of MoSpixels as the semiconducting channels. To make an edge ribbon based FET electron beam lithography EBL followed with metal evaporation and lift off was performed to fabricate drain and source electrodes precisely aligned to the specific segment of the edge ribbon of a MoSpixel. In EBL the overlay alignment was carefully performed to avoid incorporating any inner pixel flakes into the FET channel. shows a SEM image of an exemplary edge ribbon based FET with channel width of W 300 nm channel length of L 500 nm and average MoSthickness of 10 nm. display I Vand I Vcharacteristics respectively which show that this edge ribbon based FET exhibits p type conduction for VG 100 to 100 V. The transconductance at the linear region of the IDS VG characteristic curve was obtained to be dl d 1.74 nS by the linear fitting denoted with the red solid line in the inset of . The field effect mobility was estimated to be 0.27 cm V s by using equation 2 where Cis the average gate capacitance associated with a single MoSedge ribbon per unit channel length unit F m . Here Cis calculated by using a simulation model based on finite element analysis FEA that takes into account the fringe effect at the MoSnanoribbon edges. Such a fringe effect can significantly affect the values of Cfor MoSFETs with nanoscale channel widths. The field effect mobility values measured from other edge ribbon based FETs range from 0.1 to 1.0 cm Vs.

The p type conduction is generally observed in other edge ribbon based FETs and it is attributed to the chemical doping to the edge portions of MoS2 pixels which might be induced during the SFRIE process for patterning pillars in bulk MoS2 stamps. To further identify such a plasma induced doping mechanism a pristine 10 m size MoS2 flake with initial thickness of 20 nm was blank etched by SF6 plasma. After etching the flake thickness was reduced to 10 nm. The FET made from this flake also exhibits p type conduction as shown in . The field effect mobility is extracted to be 0.1 cm V s which is consistent with the mobility values measured from edge ribbon based FETs. This test verifies that the p type conduction is indeed caused by the plasma induced doping. This also provides a simple method for making p type MoS2 FETs and rectifying diodes. For example a n type FET made from a 40 nm thick MoS2 pixel was partially etched with SF6 plasma in selected areas to form a p doped region i.e. the etched region with the final MoS2 thickness of 20 nm adjacent to the n doped region i.e. the pristine region protected by a patterned photoresist layer as shown in . show the IDS VDS characteristics of this FET measured before and after the plasma etching respectively. Before etching the FET exhibits linear and symmetric IDS VDS characteristics independent of the polarity of VDS whereas after etching it exhibits a strong rectification of the drain source current. This indicates the formation of a pn junction in the MoSpixel.

To evaluate the potential scalability of the proposed printing approaches especially for future scale up transistor based applications the uniformity of the transport characteristics of MoSFETs produced by plasma assisted printing is investigated as well as the dependence of FET characteristics on the change of the MoSthickness. displays a ON OFF current ratio and b field effect mobility data measured from these FETs which are plotted as a function of the MoSthickness. These FETs have different flake thicknesses ranging from 3 to 20 nm. It should be noted that although the thickness values of most as printed MoSflakes can be controlled to be less than 10 nm relatively thicker flakes i.e. thickness 10 20 nm were intentionally chosen for making FETs in order to extend the investigation range of the flake thickness values and analyze the degree of redundancy in the control of the MoSthickness. shows that in spite of the variation of the MoSflake thickness in the range of 3 20 nm all the FETs exhibit high ON OFF ratios in the range of 10 10 reasonably high field effect mobility values on SiOgate dielectrics ranging from 15 to 24 cm Vs and uniform threshold gate voltages around V 50 V. Such results preliminarily demonstrate that the MoSFETs produced by plasma assisted printing do not exhibit a sensitive dependence of FET characteristics on the change of the MoSthickness in the range of 3 20 nm. This also suggests that the proposed printing approaches can generate a high yield of electronic grade MoSflakes with an acceptable degree of uniformity in FET characteristics and hold significant potential to be further developed into a manufacturing process for making arrays of working FETs. In addition using HfO based high k gate dielectrics the mobility values of the FETs are expected to be further improved by at least one order of magnitude which is attributed to the dielectric screening effect. The large arrays of such high performance FETs produced by printing processes are expected to significantly facilitate the future scale up electronic applications of few layer MoS.

There are device applications requiring a more demanding control of the MoS2 thickness. For example optoelectronic applications usually need MoS2 monolayers to obtain a large direct bandgap. For such applications the proposed printing approaches can potentially serve as a useful technique for paving initial raw materials of few layer MoSinto arrays of active device sites. These orderly paved MoSflakes can be subsequently tailored through a series of post printing processes to achieve a higher degree of uniformity in thickness and feature profile. For example the laser thinning technology with a self termination mechanism could be used as a post printing process for thinning as printed MoSflakes to increase the percentage yield of MoSmonolayers. Furthermore a post printing lithography step e.g. photolithography and nanoimprint followed with plasma etching can be easily implemented to trim as printed MoSflakes into functional nanopatterns with specific shapes.

In another aspect of this disclosure two dimensional 2D layered transition metal dichalcogenides LTMDs exhibit attractive optoelectronic properties e.g. the unique valley polarized optical response observed in MoS fast photo response speed and very high light absorption over a broad range of wavelengths. In particular a single semiconducting LTMD layer 0.5 nm thick can absorb as much sunlight as 50 nm of Si or 12 nm of GaAs and generate photocurrents as high as 4.5 mA cm. This high light absorption is attributed to the rich of van Hove singularity peaks in the electronic density of states DOS of these semiconducting LTMDs including monolayer few layer and multilayer LTMDs which results in a sharp rise of joint density of states JDOS in the visible light range and ensures relatively strong light matter interactions. Therefore semiconducting LTMDs can potentially be used for making flexible ultrathin PV cells with 1 3 orders of magnitude higher power densities i.e. solar power converted per unit volume of photoactive materials than the best existing thin film PV cells. It should be noted that although power density is not a standard figure of merit for PV performance the higher power density could decrease the needed photoactive layer thickness for achieving a given amount of light absorption and therefore enable highly flexible PV cells with substantial power conversion efficiency PCE and external quantum efficiency EQE as well as thin film photodetectors with sizable responsivity.

Semiconducting LTMDs are anticipated to offer additional advantages in serving as PV active materials including i excellent chemical stability i.e. LTMDs are chemically stable 2D crystals ii good mechanical flexibility and durability comparable to graphene iii superior electronic and electrical properties for fabricating functional interfaces with other 2D materials e.g. graphene based conductors and boron nitride BN based dielectrics because they can form high quality heterojunction and interfaces with an extremely low areal density of dangling bonds and charge traps. Such heterojunctions could address the challenges associated with interfacial recombination centers that impact the photovoltaic efficiencies. It should be noted that such stacked 2D heterostructures are distinct from the stacked thin films of 3D materials that usually have a high density of interfacial traps. Lastly iv low production cost i.e. LTMD based ultrathin PV cells similar to graphene based devices could potentially be manufactured on low cost flexible substrates by using roll to roll deposition and printing processes.

Although semiconducting LTMDs exhibit very strong light matter interactions and very high light absorption coefficients LTMD based PV cells with superior PV performance have not been demonstrated. In particular the current single and few layer LTMD PV and photodetector devices only showed a high photocurrent density per unit photoactive layer thickness e.g. 4.5 mA cmper LTMD monolayer . To obtain sizable photocurrents and photovoltage outputs for practical PV applications multilayer LTMD PV devices are needed. However the current multilayer LTMD PVs exhibit relatively poor values of critical figures of merit including low short circuit photocurrent density J

Plasma assisted doping can serve as a new and very effective method to fabricate a photovoltaic device as described in relation to . One or more protrusion are again formed at on a top surface of an ingot using photolithographic techniques such as those described above in relation to . The ingot may be in the form of a plate having a multi layer structure of atomically thin two dimensional sheets. Material for the sheets may be for example a transition metal dichalcogenides. Example materials may include but are not limited to molybdenum disulfide tungsten diselenide and other similar two dimensional layered materials. Other types of microfabrication techniques for forming the protrusions are also contemplated by this disclosure.

The protrusions are doped at by applying a plasma to the protrusions for example using reactive ion etching. Plasmas may include dioxygen sulfur hexafluoride carbon tetrafluoride and fluoroform. The plasma preferably contains oxygen or fluorode although other types of plasmas may be suitable.

In one example the two dimensional layered material has a larger concentration of electrons than holes i.e. n type such as molybdenum disulfide. Doping the MoSforms top layers of a p type material and thus a p n junction. Layers of the protrusions are then exfoliated at from the ingot onto a bottom electrode. The layers may be exfoliated for example by pressing the top surface of the ingot against a planar surface of the bottom electrode using a pressing tool. It is understood that the bottom electrode may be gold or other suitable metals.

In an alternative example the two dimensional layered material has a larger concentration of holes than electrons i.e. p type such as tungsten diselenide. In this example layers of the protrusions are first exfoliated from the ingot onto the bottom electrode. The exfoliated layers of the protrusions are then doped by applying a plasma thereby forming top layers of a n type material and a p n junction.

In either example a top electrode is deposited at onto the exfoliated layers to form a photovoltaic device. The top electrode may be deposited using photolithographic techniques and comprised of a transparent material such as indium tin oxide. While reference has been made to a photovoltaic device it is understood that this technique for forming a p n junction may be used to fabricate other types of semiconductor devices as well.

Before the exfoliation the top surface of the stamp is treated with a plasma species e.g. O SF or CHF using a standard reactive ion etching to induce doping in the top MoSlayers as seen in . In this example the RF power was fixed to 100 W the pressure was 10 mTorr the precursor gas flow rate was 10 sccm and the treatment time was about 1 min. Treatment times on the order of 10 seconds were also found to be effective.

Following this treatment the protrusive mesa features are mechanically exfoliated onto 50 nm thick Au electrodes as seen in . To exfoliate the plasma treated MoSflake pixels onto the device substrates the MoSingot stamps were pressed onto the pre patterned Au cathodes on substrates and subsequently released by using a custom made pressing tool. The Au cathodes 5 nm of Ti 70 nm of Au were fabricated by photolithography followed by metal deposition and lift off. The resulting multilayer MoSflakes range in thickness from 10 140 nm. The surface analysis of plasma doped MoSflakes was performed by using an X ray photoelectron spectroscope

To form a top electrode 50 nm ITO films were deposited on top of the exfoliated multilayer MoSflakes by using an ion beam sputter in . The as deposited ITO films were thermally annealed in a vacuum chamber at 300 C. for 40 min to enhance their conductivity and transparency. Finally a standard AM1.5G solar simulator can be used for the PV characterization as shown in .

For a systematic study several MoSPV devices were first fabricated and treated with different plasma species i.e. O SF CF and CHF and performed a brief I V characterization under illumination of 532 nm laser light power density P 283 mW cm . For all devices the MoSphotoactive layer thickness is 100 nm. This brief characterization shows that the CHFplasma treated PV devices exhibit the highest PV performance in terms of the highest values of J V FF and PCE parameters. Here PCE JVFF P. Therefore the following analysis and discussion focus on CHFplasma treated MoSPV devices.

To verify the high Jvalues observed in the MoSPV devices the EQE spectra of these two PV devices is measured for wavelengths ranging from 300 to 800 nm using a luminescence spectrometer note that the EQE measurements are independent from the PV characterizations under AM1.5G illumination to check the measurement consistency . In this measurement the EQE at a wavelength is extracted from the Jvalue measured under the illumination at with incident power density P i.e. EQE A J P hc e where h c and e are Planck s constant the speed of light and the electron charge respectively . The EQE values of the untreated PV device are in the range of 34 54 for 300 to 700 nm which are comparable with previously reported EQE data of undoped MoSphotoactive layers. In comparison to the untreated device the CHFplasma treated device exhibits significantly enhanced EQE values at all wavelengths between 300 and 700 nm which are in the range of 37 78 . plots the integral of the overlap between these measured EQE values and the standard AM1.5G spectrum over a wavelength range of 300 to 800 nm which yields calculated Jvalues of 18.7 mA cmand 11.2 mA cmfor the plasma treated PV device and the untreated control device respectively. Such Jvalues calculated from EQE data are consistent with the Jvalues independently measured using the AM1.5G solar simulator. The remaining small discrepancy between these two groups of Jvalues is attributed to the uncounted photocurrent density contributions from other wavelengths that are not covered in our EQE measurements and the EQE based calculation of Jvalues.

To further verify the role of plasma treatment in the photovoltaic response enhancement and also identify the effect of MoSthickness on PV performance parameters a set of CHFplasma treated and untreated PV devices with a broad range of MoSlayer thickness 10 to 120 nm is fabricated. displays a V b J c FF and d PCE data of all PV devices red circles are for CHFplasma treated devices blue triangles are for untreated devices which are plotted as the functions of MoSlayer thicknesses. These figures clearly show that plasma treated PV devices exhibit higher values of V J FF and PCE as compared to untreated devices of similar MoSthickness. For MoSthicknesses above 60 nm the plasma treatment process induces the more prominent photovoltaic response enhancement. While the current fabrication processes lead to observable device to device variation in PV parameters including the variation among devices of similar MoSthickness the statistical properties of the PV data are highly consistent with the view that the plasma treatment significantly improves the photovoltaic response of MoS based PV devices.

To understand the physical mechanism responsible for the plasma treatment induced enhancement of current rectification and photovoltaic responses observed in MoSPV devices X ray photoelectron spectra XPS of plasma treated and untreated MoSsurfaces were measured. shows the Mo 3dand Mo 3dXPS peaks of CHFplasma treated and untreated pristine MoSsurfaces. In comparison with the Mo 3dand Mo 3dpeaks of the untreated MoSsurface the relevant peaks of the CHFplasma treated surface are wider and their maxima shift toward the lower binding energy values. The relative shift is measured to be about 0.7 eV. Such a downshift of XPS peaks can serve as an indicator of the p doping in MoS because it is corresponding to a relative shift of the Fermi level toward the valence band edge. This XPS characterization also strongly suggests that a p n junction i.e. a built in potential could be formed in a MoSflake with one surface treated with plasma. The CHFplasma induced p n junction is estimated to have a built in potential 0.7 eV. Additional in depth analysis and discussion about physical mechanisms involved in plasma doping processes e.g. the physical mechanism responsible for plasma induced p doping the depth profiling of dopants as well as the spatial uniformity of p n junction built in potentials are discussed in the supporting information.

Based on the XPS results the band diagram of the MoSPV devices with vertically stacked ITO untreated n type MoS CHFplasma treated p type MoS Au regions is plotted as illustrated in . The interface between plasma doped and undoped MoSregions is expected to be a p n junction with a built in potential 0.7 eV as implied by the XPS data. The electric field associated with this built in potential barrier could effectively facilitate the separation and collection of photo generated e h pairs therefore resulting in the higher Jand EQE values for plasma doped MoSPV devices as compared to those for undoped ones. This built in potential barrier is also responsible for the increased open circuit voltage V . In addition the plasma doping induced p n junctions can result in a strong diode like transport characteristic in MoSPV devices which feature a high degree of current rectification. Such a rectifying diode behavior effectively suppresses the reverse dark current and increases the shunt resistance of a MoSPV diode resulting in the enhancement of the fill factor FF .

Although the plasma induced enhancement of photovoltaic response in MoSPV devices could be attributed to the formation of p n junctions in MoSphotoactive layers the effect of the Schottky junction barriers potentially formed at ITO MoSand Au MoSinterfaces needs to be further analyzed and justified. The interface between ITO and untreated n type MoSis expected to be a quasi Ohmic contact because the work function of untreated MoS 4.6 eV is very close to that of ITO 4.4 4.5 eV . Therefore only a negligible Schottky barrier built in potential would be formed at ITO untreated MoSinterfaces. The built in potential of the Schottky barrier at such an Au untreated MoSinterface is ideally estimated to be 0.5 eV. Shanmugam et al. attributed the photovoltaic response observed in their MoSPV devices to such a Schottky barrier effect. The photovoltaic response observed in our undoped PV devices could also be attributed to it. However the substantially poorer PV performance of our undoped PV devices in comparison with the plasma doped ones suggests that the real Schottky barrier height in the undoped PV devices may be significantly smaller than 0.5 eV i.e. which could be attributed to the Fermi level pinning effect induced by the interfacial traps at Au pristine MoSinterfaces. It is also postulated that the real Au MoSSchottky barrier heights may highly depend on the specific conditions for producing and processing MoSflakes.

Based on the XPS result the work function of CHFplasma treated or p doped MoSlayers is estimated to be 5.3 eV that is close to the work function of Au i.e. 5.1 eV . Therefore an Au p doped MoSinterface would be likely a quasi Ohmic contact with a very shallow Schottky barrier. However the band alignment at such Au p doped MoSinterfaces could be complicatedly affected by the interfacial traps as illustrated in .

It is known that in layered semiconductors the interlayer transport characteristic parameters e.g. mobility and saturation velocity are worse than the corresponding parameters for the in plane transport case. To evaluate the interlayer transport properties in multilayer MoS we further studied the diode transport characteristics of our PV devices in different bias regimes. shows the forward bias J V characteristic curve measured without illumination of a PV diode consisting of vertically stacked Au p doped MoS n type MoS ITO layers. The total MoSthickness or the channel length of this vertical diode is L 120 nm. This vertical MoSdiode exhibits different transport characteristics in different bias regimes including Boltzmann V 0 1.2 V low field space charge limited conduction SCLC V 1.2 4 V and velocity saturation SCLC V 4V regimes. Especially in the low field SCLC regime the J V curve can be well fitted with Equation 3 i.e. the Mott Gurney equation for the low field SCLC regime where kis the effective dielectric constant of multilayer MoS k 10 is the vacuum permittivity is the field effect mobility along the direction perpendicular to MoSlayers. Here the coefficient 9k 8Lis fitted to be 115 A Vcm and 8L 9k is estimated to be 0.2 cm Vs that is about two orders of magnitude lower than typical in plane mobility values of MoSlayers.

In the velocity saturation SCLC regime the J V curve can be fitted with Equation 4 i.e. the Mott Gurney equation for the velocity saturation SCLC regime where v is the saturation velocity along the direction perpendicular to MoSlayers. The coefficient 2k v L is fitted to be 348 A Vcm and v is estimated to be 3 10cm s that is also about two orders of magnitude lower than the in plane saturation velocity in MoSlayers. In addition the critical electric field associated with v is 3 10V cm that is estimated from the critical voltage 4V of the transition between low field and velocity saturation SCLC regimes.

A comprehensive model may be developed to fully understanding the MoSthickness dependent behaviors of critical PV. Such a model should be based on the plasma doping modulated band structure of MoSand needs comprehensive data of diffusion lengths and binding energies of photo generated e h pairs positions depths of p n junction depletion regions electric field dependent recombination rates of carriers and light extinction coefficients in plasma doped multilayer MoS. An initial qualitative explanation is provided. The increase of Jwith increasing the MoSthickness in the range of 10 120 nm could be attributed to the increase of the total absorption of incident light and the total amount of photo generated carriers. The low Jvalues observed in devices with MoSthicknesses 210 nm may be due to the limited diffusion lengths of photo generated carriers that in turn would result in a low collection efficiency of carriers at the electrodes. Although the origins of Vand FF parameters of MoSPV devices are still not clear the previous works on c Si a Si and organic PV cells imply that they are probably associated with multiple factors including built in potentials at p n junctions shunt resistance R series resistance R generation rate of carriers per unit photoactive area G disorder temperature T and the work functions of electrodes.Here R R G values are dependent on the MoSthickness. The increase of MoSthickness in the range of 10 120 nm can enhance the absorption of incident light and the generation rate of carriers G which could increase the quasi Fermi level difference between electrons and holes and therefore increase V. This mechanism is expected to be coupled with an increase of J. In addition the increase of MoSthickness is expected to reduce the current leakage through the tunneling channels and pin holes in MoSflakes which could increase Rand therefore Vas well as FF values. However when the MoSthickness is overly thick e.g. t 210 nm Rmay be too high and degrade the FF value.

The foregoing description of the embodiments has been provided for purposes of illustration and description. It is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the disclosure. Individual elements or features of a particular embodiment are generally not limited to that particular embodiment but where applicable are interchangeable and can be used in a selected embodiment even if not specifically shown or described. The same may also be varied in many ways. Such variations are not to be regarded as a departure from the disclosure and all such modifications are intended to be included within the scope of the disclosure.

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular example embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting. As used herein the singular forms a an and the may be intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. The terms comprises comprising including and having are inclusive and therefore specify the presence of stated features integers steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps operations elements components and or groups thereof. The method steps processes and operations described herein are not to be construed as necessarily requiring their performance in the particular order discussed or illustrated unless specifically identified as an order of performance. It is also to be understood that additional or alternative steps may be employed.

When an element or layer is referred to as being on engaged to connected to or coupled to another element or layer it may be directly on engaged connected or coupled to the other element or layer or intervening elements or layers may be present. In contrast when an element is referred to as being directly on directly engaged to directly connected to or directly coupled to another element or layer there may be no intervening elements or layers present. Other words used to describe the relationship between elements should be interpreted in a like fashion e.g. between versus directly between adjacent versus directly adjacent etc. . As used herein the term and or includes any and all combinations of one or more of the associated listed items.

Although the terms first second third etc. may be used herein to describe various elements components regions layers and or sections these elements components regions layers and or sections should not be limited by these terms. These terms may be only used to distinguish one element component region layer or section from another region layer or section. Terms such as first second and other numerical terms when used herein do not imply a sequence or order unless clearly indicated by the context. Thus a first element component region layer or section discussed below could be termed a second element component region layer or section without departing from the teachings of the example embodiments.

Spatially relative terms such as inner outer beneath below lower above upper and the like may be used herein for ease of description to describe one element or feature s relationship to another element s or feature s as illustrated in the figures. Spatially relative terms may be intended to encompass different orientations of the device in use or operation in addition to the orientation depicted in the figures. For example if the device in the figures is turned over elements described as below or beneath other elements or features would then be oriented above the other elements or features. Thus the example term below can encompass both an orientation of above and below. The device may be otherwise oriented rotated 90 degrees or at other orientations and the spatially relative descriptors used herein interpreted accordingly.

