---

title: Methods of treating psoriasis using allantoin
abstract: Embodiments herein provide formulations and methods for treatment of inflammatory skin diseases using allantoin in an amount from about 0.5% to about 15.0% by weight. Inflammatory skin diseases treated by embodiments herein include, without limitation, cutaneous porphyria, sclerodema, epidermolysis bulosa, psoriasis, decubitus ulcers, pressure ulcers, diabetic ulcers, venous stasis ulcers, sickle cell ulcers, ulcers caused by burns, eczema, urticaria, atopic dermatitis, dermatitis herpetiform, contact dermatitis, arthritis, gout, lupus erythematosus, acne, alopecia, carcinomas, psoriasis, rosacea, miliaria, skin infections, post-operative care of incisions, post-operative skin care following any variety of plastic surgery operations, skin care following radiation treatment, care of dry, cracked or aged skin and skin lines as well as other conditions affecting the skin and having an inflammatory component, symptoms thereof, or a combination thereof. Symptoms treated may include pain, inflammation, redness, itching, scarring, skin thickening, milia, or a combination thereof.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09339492&OS=09339492&RS=09339492
owner: Scioderm, Inc.
number: 09339492
owner_city: Durham
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150701
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 14 062 295 filed Oct. 24 2013 which is a divisional of U.S. application Ser. No. 13 019 039 filed Feb. 1 2011 which claims priority from U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 300 627 filed Feb. 2 2010 entitled Compositions and Methods for Treatment of Inflammatory Skin Conditions Using Allantoin each of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Embodiments of the present invention relate generally to compositions comprising allantoin that can be used to treat individuals affected with inflammatory skin conditions. The compositions are preferably formulated as topical formulations.

In one aspect formulations of allantoin comprising from about 2.5 to about 15 of allantoin by weight and a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient are provided. In some embodiments the amount of allantoin is not 1.5 by weight or less of the composition. In some embodiments the amount of allantoin is not 2.0 by weight or less of the composition. In embodiments the formulation further comprises an emollient an emulsifier a solvent a pH modifier a solubilizing agent an antioxidant a preservative a chelating agent an additive a viscosity agent or a combination thereof. In some embodiments the formulation comprises allantoin in an amount from about 2.5 to about 15 by weight of the formulation water cetyl alcohol stearyl alcohol beeswax sodium lauryl sulfate in an about 30 solution citric acid lanolin oil propylene glycol cod liver oil butylated hydroxytoluene methylparaben propylparaben or a combination thereof. In an embodiment the formulation may comprise allantoin in an amount of from about 2.5 to about 15 water in an amount from about 40 to about 90 cetyl alcohol in an amount from about 0.5 to about 15 stearyl alcohol in an amount from about 1 to about 3 beeswax in an amount from about 1.5 to about 3 sodium lauryl sulfate in a 30 solution in an amount from about 1.5 to about 3 citric acid in an amount from about 0.5 to about 0.2 lanolin oil in an amount from about 5 to about 15 propylene glycol in an amount from about 2 to about 8 tetrasodium EDTA in an amount from about 0.05 to about 0.5 cod liver oil in an amount from about 0.05 to about 5 butylated hydroxytoluene in an amount from about 0.05 to about 1 methylparaben in an amount from about 0.05 to about 0.5 propylparaben in an amount from about 0.05 to about 0.5 by weight of the formulation or a combination thereof. In embodiments the formulation optionally includes tetrasodium EDTA. In embodiments the tetrasodium EDTA may be present in an amount from about 0.05 to about 0.5 by weight of the formulation. In embodiments the formulation optionally includes a fragrance. In some embodiments allantoin may be present in an amount from about 1.5 to about 15 from about 2.0 to about 15 from about 2.5 to about 15 or from about 3.0 to about 15 by weight of the formulation. In some embodiments the amount of allantoin is not 1.5 by weight or less of the composition. In some embodiments the amount of allantoin is not 2.0 by weight or less of the composition.

In another aspect formulations of allantoin comprising about 3.0 of allantoin water cetyl alcohol stearyl alcohol beeswax sodium lauryl sulfate in an about 30 solution citric acid lanolin oil propylene glycol tetrasodium EDTA cod liver oil butylated hydroxytoluene methylparaben and propylparaben are provided. In another aspect formulations of allantoin comprising about 6.0 of allantoin water cetyl alcohol stearyl alcohol beeswax sodium lauryl sulfate in an about 30 solution citric acid lanolin oil propylene glycol tetrasodium EDTA cod liver oil butylated hydroxytoluene methylparaben and propylparaben are provided. In another aspect formulations of allantoin comprising about 9.0 of allantoin water cetyl alcohol stearyl alcohol beeswax sodium lauryl sulfate in a about 30 solution citric acid lanolin oil propylene glycol tetrasodium EDTA cod liver oil butylated hydroxytoluene methylparaben and propylparaben are provided.

In another aspect embodiments describe methods of treatment of inflammatory skin conditions comprising administrating a composition comprising from about 2.5 to about 15 allantoin and a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient. In some embodiments the amount of allantoin is not 1.5 by weight or less of the composition. In some embodiments the amount of allantoin is not 2.0 by weight or less of the composition. In embodiments the composition further comprises an emollient an emulsifier a solvent a pH modifier a solubilizing agent an antioxidant a preservative a chelating agent an additive a viscosity agent or a combination thereof. In some embodiments the formulation comprises allantoin water cetyl alcohol stearyl alcohol beeswax sodium lauryl sulfate in an about 30 solution citric acid lanolin oil propylene glycol cod liver oil butylated hydroxytoluene methylparaben propylparaben or a combination thereof. In some embodiments the formulation comprises allantoin in an amount from about 2.5 to about 15 water in an amount from about 40 to about 90 cetyl alcohol in an amount from about 0.5 to about 15 stearyl alcohol in an amount from about 1 to about 3 beeswax in an amount from about 1.5 to about 3 sodium lauryl sulfate in a 30 solution in an amount from about 1.5 to about 3 citric acid in an amount from about 0.5 to about 0.2 lanolin oil in an amount from about 5 to about 15 propylene glycol in an amount from about 2 to about 8 cod liver oil in an amount from about 0.05 to about 5 butylated hydroxytoluene in an amount from about 0.05 to about 1 methylparaben in an amount from about 0.05 to about 0.5 propylparaben in an amount from about 0.05 to about 0.5 by weight of the formulation or a combination thereof. In embodiments the formulation optionally includes tetrasodium EDTA. In embodiments the tetrasodium EDTA may be present in an amount from about 0.05 to about 0.5 by weight of the formulation. In embodiments the formulation optionally includes a fragrance. In some embodiments allantoin may be present in an amount from about 1.5 to about 15 from about 2.0 to about 15 from about 2.5 to about 15 or from about 3.0 to about 15 by weight of the formulation.

In another aspect embodiments describe methods of treatment of inflammatory skin conditions comprising administering a composition comprising about 3.0 allantoin and a pharmaceutical excipient. In another aspect embodiments describe methods of treatment of inflammatory skin conditions comprising administering a composition comprising about 6.0 allantoin and a pharmaceutical excipient. In another aspect embodiments describe methods of treatment of inflammatory skin conditions comprising administering a composition comprising about 9.0 allantoin and a pharmaceutical excipient.

In some aspects the inflammatory skin condition may be characterized by ulceration inflammation or blistering of the skin. In some embodiments the inflammatory skin condition may be characterized by a genetic component an autoimmune component a circulatory component or combinations thereof. In some embodiments the inflammatory skin condition may be selected from a group consisting of cutaneous porphyria sclerodema epidermolysis bulosa psoriasis decubitus ulcers pressure ulcers diabetic ulcers venous stasis ulcers sickle cell ulcers ulcers caused by burns eczema urticaria atopic dermatitis dermatitis herpetiform contact dermatitis arthritis gout lupus erythematosus acne alopecia carcinomas psoriasis rosacea miliaria inflammation due to skin infections post operative care of incisions post operative inflammation inflammation following radiation treatment inflammation due to dry cracked or aged skin skin lines a combination thereof and a symptom thereof. In some embodiments the symptom may be selected from pain inflammation itching scarring milia skin thickening redness or a combination thereof.

In another aspect embodiments describe methods of treatment of Epidermolysis bullosa comprising the topical administration of an about 3.0 allantoin containing composition.

In another aspect embodiments describe methods of treatment of Epidermolysis bullosa comprising the topical administration of an about 6.0 allantoin containing composition.

In another aspect embodiments describe methods of treatment of Epidermolysis bullosa comprising the topical administration of an about 9.0 allantoin containing composition.

In another aspect embodiments describe methods of treatment of psoriasis comprising the topical administration of an about 3.0 allantoin containing composition.

In another aspect embodiments describe methods of treatment of psoriasis comprising the topical administration of an about 6.0 allantoin containing composition.

In another aspect embodiments describe methods of treatment of psoriasis comprising the topical administration of an about 9.0 allantoin containing composition.

In another aspect embodiments describe methods of treatment of diabetic ulcers comprising the topical administration of an about 3.0 allantoin containing composition.

In another aspect embodiments describe methods of treatment of diabetic ulcers comprising the topical administration of an about 6.0 allantoin containing composition.

In another aspect embodiments describe methods of treatment of diabetic ulcers comprising the topical administration of an about 9.0 allantoin containing composition.

In another aspect embodiments describe methods of treatment of atopic dermatitis comprising the topical administration of an about 3.0 allantoin containing composition.

In another aspect embodiments describe methods of treatment of atopic dermatitis comprising the topical administration of an about 6.0 allantoin containing composition.

In another aspect embodiments describe methods of treatment of atopic dermatitis comprising the topical administration of an about 9.0 allantoin containing composition.

Before the present compositions and methods are described it is to be understood that this invention is not limited to the particular processes compositions or methodologies described as these may vary. It is also to be understood that the terminology used in the description is for the purpose of describing the particular versions or embodiments only and is not intended to limit the scope of the present invention which will be limited only by the appended claims. Unless defined otherwise all technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meanings as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art. Although any methods and materials similar or equivalent to those described herein can be used in the practice or testing of embodiments of the present invention the preferred methods devices and materials are now described. All publications mentioned herein are incorporated by reference in their entirety. Nothing herein is to be construed as an admission that the invention is not entitled to antedate such disclosure by virtue of prior invention.

It must also be noted that as used herein and in the appended claims the singular forms a an and the include plural reference unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. Thus for example reference to a fibroblast is a reference to one or more fibroblasts and equivalents thereof known to those skilled in the art and so forth.

As used herein the term about means plus or minus 10 of the numerical value of the number with which it is being used. In other aspects the term about means plus or minus 1 of the numerical value of the number with which it is being used. Therefore about 50 means in the range of 45 55 or 49.5 50.5 as described herein.

As used herein the term consists of or consisting of means that the formulation includes only the elements steps or ingredients specifically recited in the particular claimed embodiment or claim.

As used herein the term consisting essentially of or consists essentially of means that the only active pharmaceutical ingredient in the formulation or method that treats the specified condition e.g. Epidermolysis bullosa psoriasis atopic dermatitis diabetic ulcers or the like is the specifically recited therapeutic in the particular embodiment or claim.

The term inhibiting includes the administration of a compound of the present invention to prevent the onset of the symptoms alleviating the symptoms or eliminating the disease condition or disorder.

By pharmaceutically acceptable it is meant the carrier diluent or excipient must be compatible with the other ingredients of the formulation and not deleterious to the recipient thereof.

As used herein room temperature means an indoor temperature of from about 20 C. to about 25 C. 68 to 77 F. .

Unless otherwise indicated the term skin means that outer integument or covering of the body consisting of the dermis and the epidermis and resting upon subcutaneous tissue.

The term improves is used to convey that the present invention changes either the appearance form characteristics and or the physical attributes of the tissue to which it is being provided applied or administered. The change in form may be demonstrated by any of the following alone or in combination enhanced appearance of the skin decreased inflammation of the skin prevention of inflammation or blisters decreased spread of blisters decreased ulceration of the skin decreased redness reduction of scarring reduction in lesions healing of blisters reduced skin thickening closure of wounds and lesions a reduction in symptoms including but not limited to pain inflammation itching milia or other symptoms associated with inflammatory disease or the like.

As used herein the term sole active ingredient means that the active ingredient or active compound identified as such is the only effective therapeutic in the formulation to treat the disease or disorder. In some embodiments allantoin is the sole active ingredient in formulation for the treatment of inflammatory skin diseases such as Epidermolysis bullosa psoriasis atopic dermatitis diabetic ulcers or the like. As an example in embodiments where a formulation used for the treatment of psoriasis contains allantoin as the sole active ingredient the formulation does not contain another active ingredient such as for example coal tar.

As used herein the term therapeutic means an agent utilized to treat combat ameliorate prevent or improve an unwanted condition or disease of a patient. In part embodiments of the present invention are directed to the treatment of various skin conditions or disorders such as inflammatory skin conditions or disorders.

A therapeutically effective amount or effective amount of a composition is a predetermined amount calculated to achieve the desired effect i.e. to enhance appearance of skin to alleviate inflammation or blisters or to prevent the skin condition from worsening. The activity contemplated by the present methods includes both medical therapeutic and or prophylactic treatment as appropriate. The specific dose of a compound administered according to this invention to obtain therapeutic and or prophylactic effects will of course be determined by the particular circumstances surrounding the case including for example the compound administered the route of administration and the condition being treated. However it will be understood that the effective amount administered will be determined by the physician in the light of the relevant circumstances including the condition to be treated the choice of compound to be administered and the chosen route of administration and therefore the above dosage ranges are not intended to limit the scope of the invention in any way. A therapeutically effective amount of compound of this invention is typically an amount such that when it is administered in a physiologically tolerable excipient composition it is sufficient to achieve an effective systemic concentration or local concentration in the tissue.

The terms treat treated or treating as used herein refers to both therapeutic treatment and prophylactic or preventative measures wherein the object is to prevent or slow down lessen an undesired physiological condition disorder or disease or to obtain beneficial or desired clinical results. For the purposes of this invention beneficial or desired clinical results include but are not limited to alleviation of symptoms diminishment of the extent of the condition disorder or disease stabilization i.e. not worsening of the state of the condition disorder or disease delay in onset or slowing of the progression of the condition disorder or disease amelioration of the condition disorder or disease state and remission whether partial or total whether detectable or undetectable or enhancement or improvement of the condition disorder or disease. Treatment includes eliciting a clinically significant response without excessive levels of side effects.

For example in some aspects the invention is directed to a method of treating a disease using a pharmaceutical composition comprising a compound as defined above and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or diluent or an effective amount of a pharmaceutical composition comprising a compound as defined above.

Encompassed within this disclosure is all forms of allantoin or a salt thereof including but not limited to crystals polymorphs clathrates solvates hydrates amorphous forms co crystals and anhydrous forms. As used herein allantoin includes salts thereof as described below crystals polymorphs clathrates solvates hydrates amorphous forms co crystals and anhydrous forms unless otherwise specified.

Embodiments of the present disclosure also relate to the salts of allantoin. The acids which are used to prepare the salts of the aforementioned compound are those which form non toxic salts i.e. salts containing pharmacologically acceptable anions such as the hydrochloride acetate trifluoroacetic acid tosylate picrate hydrobromide hydroiodide nitrate sulfate bisulfate phosphate acid phosphate lactate citrate acid citrate tartrate bitartrate succinate maleate fumarate gluconate saccharate benzoate methanesulfonate ethanesulfonate benzenesulfonate p toluenesulfonate and pamoate salts.

Inflammatory skin disease particularly chronic inflammatory skin disease is still a major source of morbidity. Such inflammatory skin diseases are disfiguring and cause severe physical and psychological harm to patients disrupting their quality of life substantially. Inflammatory skin diseases may be selected from genetic inflammatory skin diseases circulatory inflammatory skin diseases and auto immune inflammatory skin diseases. Such diseases include cutaneous porphyria sclerodema epidermolysis bulosa psoriasis decubitus ulcers pressure ulcers diabetic ulcers venous stasis ulcers sickle cell ulcers and ulcers caused by burns as well as other conditions affecting the skin and having an inflammatory component such as eczema urticaria atopic dermatitis dermatitis herpetiform contact dermatitis arthritis gout and lupus erythematosus. Other skin conditions having an inflammatory component for which improved treatments are needed include acne alopecia carcinomas psoriasis rosacea miliaria skin infections post operative care of incisions post operative skin care following any variety of plastic surgery operations skin care following radiation treatment care of dry cracked or aged skin and skin lines. Such skin diseases tend to be chronic and difficult to treat particularly in patients with poor circulation or other underlying disease states. Symptoms of such diseases may include without limitation pain inflammation itching milia blisters ulceration redness scarring or the like.

Among the most difficult to treat of these diseases is epidermolysis bullosa. Epidermolysis bullosa EB is a rare genetic disorder caused by a mutation in the keratin gene. The disorder is characterized by the presence of extremely fragile skin severe inflammation recurrent blister formation and scarring resulting from minor mechanical friction or trauma. Epidermolysis bullosa is difficult to treat by conventional means.

Many allantoin compositions are prepared as emulsions particularly oil in water emulsions. One emulsifier system used with such compositions is a combination of sodium lauryl sulfate and beeswax. Although solutions of sodium lauryl sulfate are alkaline with an approximate pH of 9.5 the simultaneous use of beeswax with its organic acids produces a complex neutralized system with a pH of about 6.8 to about 7.5. However in such a system with a pH range of 6.8 to 7.5 allantoin degrades significantly with time and in accelerated stability tests at 40 C. Because preparations designed for application to the skin are typically stored by users at room temperature and room temperatures can fluctuate with climactic conditions such a degree of stability is undesirable. Therefore there is a need for an oil in water emulsified composition containing allantoin in which the stability of allantoin is increased.

In general embodiments herein describe a method of treating inflammatory skin conditions or diseases comprising applying to the skin an allantoin comprising composition in a therapeutically effective amount. It was unexpectedly found that stabilized oil in water emulsions containing allantoin optionally plus other pharmaceutically acceptable ingredients as described herein provide a high degree of relief for inflammatory skin conditions characterized by ulceration inflammation or blistering of skin. Such skin conditions may include without limitation cutaneous porphyria sclerodema epidermolysis bullosa psoriasis decubitus ulcers pressure ulcers diabetic ulcers venous stasis ulcers sickle cell ulcers ulcers caused by burns eczema urticaria atopic dermatitis dermatitis herpetiform contact dermatitis arthritis gout lupus erythematosus acne alopecia carcinomas psoriasis rosacea miliaria skin infections post operative care of incisions post operative skin care following any variety of plastic surgery operations skin care following radiation treatment care of dry cracked or aged skin and skin lines as well as other conditions affecting the skin and having an inflammatory component. Administration of formulations of allantoin described in embodiments herein may cause a reduction in symptoms of such diseases such as without limitation pain scarring inflammation redness milia itching skin thickening blisters or other symptoms associated with inflammatory disease. In some embodiments inflammatory skin disease may comprise epidermolysis bullosa psoriasis atopic dermatitis and diabetic ulcers. The allantoin containing composition comprises an oil in water emulsion as may be described below.

Furthermore formulations of allantoin in embodiments described herein may impart long lasting stability at room temperature where refrigeration is not needed to the formulation. In some embodiments the formulation may be stable for about 4 to about 10 years for about 4 to about 8 years for about 4 to about 7 years for about 4 to about 6 years for about 5 to about 10 for about 5 to about 8 years for about 5 to about 7 years for about 5 to about 6 years for about 6 to about 10 years for about 6 to about 8 years or for about 6 to about 7 years. In some embodiments stability may include without limitation physical stability chemical stability resistance to microbial agents or combinations thereof. In some embodiments stability refers to a stability of allantoin. In some embodiments stability refers to a period where there is no degradation of allantoin at room temperature. In some embodiments stability refers to a period where there may be about 1 or less degradation of allantoin at room temperature. In some embodiments stability refers to a period where there is no decrease in concentration. In some embodiments stability refers to a period where there is less than about 1 decrease in concentration. In some embodiments stability refers to a period of resistance to microbiological growth at room temperature. In some embodiments stability refers to a period where the formulation falls within the normal bioburden ranges for said formulation at room temperature. In some embodiments the formulations of allantoin in embodiments described herein may impart better absorption of the active pharmaceutical across a skin barrier. In some embodiments the skin barrier comprises intact skin. In some embodiments the formulations of allantoin in embodiments described herein may deliver more allantoin across intact skin barrier than formulations of prior art.

Embodiments of the present disclosure relate to formulations of allantoin and methods of treatment of inflammatory skin conditions. In some embodiments the formulation comprises about 0.5 or more of allantoin and a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient. In some embodiments the formulation consists essentially of about 0.5 or more of allantoin and a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient. In some embodiments the formulation consists of about 0.5 or more of allantoin and a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient. In some embodiments the formulation comprises about 1.5 or more of allantoin and a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient. In some embodiments the formulation consists essentially of about 1.5 or more of allantoin and a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient. In some embodiments the formulation consists of about 1.5 or more of allantoin and a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient. In some embodiments the formulation comprises about 2.0 or more of allantoin and a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient. In some embodiments the formulation consists essentially of about 2.0 or more of allantoin and a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient. In some embodiments the formulation consists of about 2.0 or more of allantoin and a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient. In some embodiments the formulation comprises about 2.5 or more of allantoin and a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient. In some embodiments the formulation consists essentially of about 2.5 or more of allantoin and a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient. In some embodiments the formulation consists of about 2.5 or more of allantoin and a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient. In some embodiments the formulation comprises about 3.0 or more of allantoin and a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient. In some embodiments the formulation consists essentially of about 3.0 or more of allantoin and a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient. In some embodiments the formulation consists of about 3.0 or more of allantoin and a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient.

Embodiments describe a composition comprising allantoin in an amount from about 0.5 to about 15 by weight and a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient. In some embodiments the composition comprises allantoin in an amount from about 1.5 to about 15 by weight and a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient. In some embodiments the composition comprises allantoin in an amount from about 2.0 to about 15 by weight and a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient. In some embodiments the composition comprises allantoin in an amount from about 2.5 to about 15 by weight and a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient. In some embodiments the composition comprises allantoin in an amount from about 3.0 to about 15 by weight and a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient. In some embodiments the composition comprises allantoin in an amount from about 3.0 to about 10 by weight and a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient. In some embodiments the composition comprises allantoin in an amount from about 3.0 to about 9.0 by weight and a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient. In some embodiments the composition comprises allantoin in an amount from about 3.0 to about 6.0 by weight and a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient. In some embodiments the composition comprises allantoin in an amount from about 6.0 to about 15.0 by weight and a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient. In some embodiments the composition comprises allantoin in an amount from about 6.0 to about 10.0 by weight and a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient. In some embodiments the composition comprises allantoin in an amount from about 6.0 to about 9.0 by weight and a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient.

Embodiments describe a composition consisting essentially of allantoin in an amount from about 0.5 to about 15 by weight and a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient. In some embodiments the composition consists essentially of allantoin in an amount from about 1.5 to about 15 by weight and a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient. In some embodiments the composition consists essentially of allantoin in an amount from about 2.0 to about 15 by weight and a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient. In some embodiments the composition consists essentially of allantoin in an amount from about 2.5 to about 15 by weight and a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient. In some embodiments the composition consists essentially of allantoin in an amount from about 3.0 to about 15 by weight and a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient. In some embodiments the composition consists essentially of allantoin in an amount from about 3.0 to about 10 by weight and a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient. In some embodiments the composition consists essentially of allantoin in an amount from about 3.0 to about 9.0 by weight and a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient. In some embodiments the composition consists essentially of allantoin in an amount from about 3.0 to about 6.0 by weight and a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient. In some embodiments the composition consists essentially of allantoin in an amount from about 6.0 to about 15.0 by weight and a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient. In some embodiments the composition consists essentially of allantoin in an amount from about 6.0 to about 10.0 by weight and a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient. In some embodiments the composition consists essentially of allantoin in an amount from about 6.0 to about 9.0 by weight and a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient.

Embodiments describe a composition consisting of allantoin in an amount from about 0.5 to about 15 by weight and a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient. In some embodiments the composition consists of allantoin in an amount from about 1.5 to about 15 by weight and a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient. In some embodiments the composition consists of allantoin in an amount from about 2.0 to about 15 by weight and a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient. In some embodiments the composition consists of allantoin in an amount from about 2.5 to about 15 by weight and a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient. In some embodiments the composition consists of allantoin in an amount from about 3.0 to about 15 by weight and a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient. In some embodiments the composition consists of allantoin in an amount from about 3.0 to about 10 by weight and a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient. In some embodiments the composition consists of allantoin in an amount from about 3.0 to about 9.0 by weight and a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient. In some embodiments the composition consists of allantoin in an amount from about 3.0 to about 6.0 by weight and a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient. In some embodiments the composition consists of allantoin in an amount from about 6.0 to about 15.0 by weight and a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient. In some embodiments the composition consists of allantoin in an amount from about 6.0 to about 10.0 by weight and a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient. In some embodiments the composition consists of allantoin in an amount from about 6.0 to about 9.0 by weight and a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient.

In other embodiments the formulation comprises more than about 1.5 by weight of allantoin but not 1.5 or less of allantoin and a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient. In some embodiments the formulation comprises about 2.0 by weight or more of allantoin but not 1.5 or less of allantoin and a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient. In some embodiments the formulation comprises about 2.5 by weight or more of allantoin but not 1.5 or less of allantoin and a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient. In some embodiments the formulation comprises about 2.5 by weight or more of allantoin but not less than 2.0 of allantoin and a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient. In some embodiments the formulation comprises about 3.0 by weight or more of allantoin but not less than 2.5 of allantoin and a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient. In some embodiments the formulation comprises about 3.0 by weight or more of allantoin but not less than 2.0 of allantoin and a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient. In other embodiments the formulation comprises about 3.0 by weight or more of allantoin but not 1.5 or less of allantoin and a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient. In other embodiments the formulation consists essentially of more than about 1.5 by weight of allantoin but not 1.5 or less of allantoin and a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient. In some embodiments the formulation consists essentially of about 2.0 by weight or more of allantoin but not 1.5 or less of allantoin and a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient. In some embodiments the formulation consists essentially of about 2.5 by weight or more of allantoin but not 1.5 or less of allantoin and a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient. In some embodiments the formulation consists essentially of about 2.5 by weight or more of allantoin but not less than 2.0 of allantoin and a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient. In other embodiments the formulation consists essentially of about 3.0 by weight or more of allantoin but not less than 2.5 of allantoin and a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient. In some embodiments the formulation consists essentially of about 3.0 by weight or more of allantoin but not less than 2.0 of allantoin and a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient. In other embodiments the formulation consists essentially of about 3.0 by weight or more of allantoin but not 1.5 or less of allantoin and a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient. In other embodiments the formulation consists of more than about 1.5 by weight of allantoin but not 1.5 or less of allantoin and a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient. In some embodiments the formulation consists of about 2.0 by weight or more of allantoin but not 1.5 or less of allantoin and a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient. In some embodiments the formulation consists of about 2.5 by weight or more of allantoin but not 1.5 or less of allantoin and a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient. In some embodiments the formulation consists of about 2.5 by weight or more of allantoin but not less than 2.0 of allantoin and a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient. In some embodiments the formulation consists of about 3.0 by weight or more of allantoin but not less than 2.5 of allantoin and a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient. In some embodiments the formulation consists of about 3.0 by weight or more of allantoin but not less than 2.0 of allantoin and a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient. In other embodiments the formulation consists of about 3.0 by weight or more of allantoin but not 1.5 or less of allantoin and a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient.

Embodiments herein describe formulations of allantoin comprising an oil in water emulsion comprising allantoin an emollient an emulsifier and a solvent. In some embodiments the formulation further comprises a pH modifier a solubilizing agent an antioxidant a preservative a chelating agent an additive a viscosity agent or a combination thereof. In some embodiments the formulation comprises allantoin an emollient an emulsifier a pH modifier a solubilizing agent an antioxidant a preservative and a solvent. In some embodiments the formulation consists essentially of allantoin an emollient an emulsifier a pH modifier a solubilizing agent an antioxidant a preservative and a solvent. In some embodiments the formulation consists of allantoin an emollient an emulsifier a pH modifier a solubilizing agent an antioxidant a preservative and a solvent.

The formulations of various embodiments may include any number of additional components such as for example preservatives emulsion stabilizers pH adjusters chelating agents viscosity modifiers anti oxidants surfactants emollients opacifying agents skin conditioners buffers fragrances and combinations thereof. In some embodiments such additional components may provide a dual purpose. For example certain surfactants may also act as emulsifiers certain emollients may also act as viscosity modifiers and certain buffering agents may also act as chelating agents.

In particular embodiments of the present disclosure relate to formulations of allantoin comprising an oil in water emulsion comprising allantoin a solvent an emollient such as without limitation lanolin oil cod liver oil or an alcohol used as a thickening agent an emulsifier such as without limitation sodium laurate sulfate or a white wax an antioxidant such as without limitation butylated hydroxytoluene a preservative such as without limitation methylparaben or propylparaben a pH modifier such as without limitation citric acid or lactic acid and a solubilizing agent such as without limitation glycerin or propylene glycol. In some embodiments the formulation may further comprise a fragrance an herbal extract a viscosity agent such as without limitation cetyl alcohol or stearyl alcohol a chelating agent such as without limitation tetrasodium EDTA or a combination thereof. In some embodiments the formulation of allantoin comprises any formulation disclosed in . In some embodiments the formulation of allantoin consists essentially of any formulation disclosed in . In some embodiments the formulation of allantoin consists of any formulation disclosed in . In some embodiments the formulation of allantoin comprises a formulation selected from the group consisting of 1 206A 1 192A 1 196A and 1 204A as shown in . In some embodiments the formulation of allantoin consists essentially of a formulation selected from the group consisting of 1 206A 1 192A 1 196A and 1 204A as shown in . In some embodiments the formulation of allantoin consists of a formulation selected from the group consisting of 1 206A 1 192A 1 196A and 1 204A as shown in . In an embodiment a formulation of allantoin comprises an oil in water emulsion comprising allantoin water cetyl alcohol stearyl alcohol beeswax sodium lauryl sulfate in a 30 solution citric acid lanolin oil propylene glycol tetrasodium EDTA cod liver oil butylated hydroxytoluene methylparaben and propylparaben.

In some embodiments the formulation may include an emulsifying agent or emulsifier. In embodiments the emulsifier may be for example sodium lauryl sulfate white waxes such as beeswax or paraffin wax sesquioleates such as sorbitan sesquioleate or polyglyceryl 2 sesquioleate ethoxylated esters of derivatives of natural oils such as the polyethoxylated ester of hydrogenated castor oil silicone emulsifiers such as silicone polyols anionic emulsifiers fatty acid soaps such as potassium stearate and fatty acid sulphates like sodium cetostearyl sulphate ethoxylated fatty alcohols sorbitan esters ethoxylated sorbitan esters ethoxylated fatty acid esters such as ethoxylated stearates ethoxylated mono di and triglycerides non ionic self emulsifying waxes ethoxylated fatty acids methylglucose esters such as polyglycerol 3 methyl glucose distearate and combinations thereof. Various emulsions suitable for embodiments described herein and methods for preparing such emulsions are well known in the art and are described in for example Remington s Pharmaceutical Sciences Mack Publishing Co. Easton Pa. USA which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety. In some embodiments the formulation may include an emulsifier in an amount from about 1 to about 15 and in other embodiments the formulation may include from about 1 to about 10 or from about 1 to about 5 emulsifier. If more than one emulsifier is used the formulation may include from about 1 to about 5 or from about 1.5 to about 3 by weight of the formulation of each emulsifier.

In some embodiments the formulations described herein may include one or more surfactants. Such embodiments are not limited by type of surfactant used for example in some embodiments the one or more surfactants may be anionic surfactants such as alkyl sulfates alkylether sulfates alkylsulfonates alkylaryl sulfonates alkyl succinates alkyl sulfosuccinates N alkoylsarcosinates acyl taurates acyl isethionates alkyl phosphates alkyl ether phosphates alkyl ether carboxylates olefinsulfonates and the alkali metal and alkaline earth metal salts and ammonium and triethanolamine salts thereof. Such alkyl ether sulfates alkyl ether phosphates and alkyl ether carboxylates can have between 1 and 10 ethylene oxide or propylene oxide units and in some embodiments 1 to 3 ethylene oxide units per molecule. More specific examples include but are not limited to sodium lauryl sulfate ammonium lauryl sulfate sodium lauryl ether sulfate ammonium lauryl ether sulfate sodium lauryl sarcosinate sodium oleyl succinate ammonium lauryl sulfosuccinate sodium dodecylbenzene sulfonate triethanolamine dodecylbenzenesulfonate. In other embodiments the one or more surfactants may be amphoteric surfactants such as for example alkylbetaines alkylamidopropylbetaines alkylsulfobetaines alkylglycinates alkylcarboxyglycinates alkylamphoacetates or propionates alkylamphodiacetates or dipropionates and more specifically cocodimethylsulfopropylbetaine lauryl betaine cocamidopropylbetaine or sodium cocamphopropionate.

In certain embodiments the one or more surfactants may be non ionic surfactants such as for example the reaction products of aliphatic alcohols or alkylphenols having 6 to 20 carbon atoms in a linear or branched alkyl chain with ethylene oxide and or propylene oxide where the alkylene oxide may be from about 6 moles to about 60 moles per mole of alcohol. In particular embodiments non ionic surfactants may include alkylamine oxides mono and dialkylalkanolamides fatty acid esters of polyethylenenglycols ethoxylated fatty acids amides saturated fatty acid alcohols reacted with ethylene oxide alkyl polyglycosides and sorbitan ether esters and in some embodiments the non ionic surfactant may be ceteareth 2 ceteareth 3 ceteareth 4 ceteareth 5 ceteareth 6 ceteareth 7 ceteareth 8 ceteareth 9 ceteareth 10 ceteareth 11 ceteareth 12 ceteareth 13 ceteareth 14 ceteareth 15 ceteareth 16 ceteareth 17 ceteareth 18 ceteareth 20 ceteareth 22 ceteareth 23 ceteareth 24 ceteareth 25 ceteareth 27 ceteareth 28 ceteareth 29 ceteareth 30 ceteareth 33 ceteareth 34 ceteareth 40 ceteareth 50 ceteareth 55 ceteareth 60 ceteareth 80 ceteareth 100 and the like or combinations thereof or one or more ceteareth in combination with a fatty acid alcohol such as stearyl alcohol oleyl alcohol linoleyl alcohol arachidyl alcohol cetyl alcohol and the like. The surfactant of various embodiments may make up from about 0.1 to about 20 by weight of the formulation and in some embodiments from about 0.5 to about 20 by weight of the formulation. In embodiments in which more than one surfactant is provided in the formulation each surfactant may be from about 0.5 to about 10 by weight of the formulation and in some embodiments each surfactant of the formulation may be from about 0.5 to about 6 by weight of the formulation.

In some embodiments the formulation may comprise emollients in an amount from about 8 to about 30 by weight of the formulation. In formulations that include more than one emollient each emollient may be provided at about 0.05 to about 15 by weight of any one emollient. Emollients are well known in the art and are listed for example the International Cosmetic Ingredient Dictionary Eighth Edition 2000 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety. In certain embodiments the emollient may be fatty esters fatty alcohols or combinations thereof including but not limited to diisopropyl adipate oleyl alcohol lanolin isopropyl myristate isopropyl palmitate caprylic capric triglycerides cetyl lactate cetyl palmitate hydrogenated castor oil glyceryl esters hydroxycetyl isostearate hydroxy cetyl phosphate isopropyl isostearate isostearyl isostearate diisopropyl sebacate polyoxypropylene 5 poloxyethylene 20 cetyl ether PPG 5 Ceteth 20 2 ethylhexyl isononoate 2 ethylhexyl stearate Cto Cfatty alcohol Cto Cfatty alcohol lactate isopropyl lanolate 2 ethyl hexyl salicylate and combinations thereof. In some embodiments the one or more emollients may be a combination of fatty alcohols. In certain embodiments the one or more emollients may be 1 hexadecanol acetylated lanolin behenocyl dimethicone Calkyl benzoate cetearyl octanoate cocoglycerides dicaprylate dicaprate dimethicone copolyol dimethiconol dioctyl adipate glyceryl stearate isocetyl alcohol isohexadecane isopentylcyclohexanone isopropyl palmitate lauryllactate mineral oil methoxy peg 22 dodecyl glycol copolymer myristyl lactate ocryldodecyl neopentanoate octyl cocoate octyl palmitate octyl stearate octyldodecyl neopentanoate polyglyceryl 4 isosterate polyoxyl 40 stearate polyoxymethylene urea potassium sorbate propylene glycol propylene glycol isoceth 3 acetate and propylene glycol myristyl ether acetate. In some embodiments the emollient may be a high molecular weight saturated and unsaturated fatty alcohol such as but not limited to carbitol lauryl alcohol myristyl alcohol cetyl alcohol isocetyl alcohol stearyl alcohol isostearyl alcohol hydroxystearyl alcohol oleyl alcohol ricinoleyl alcohol behenyl alcohol erucyl alcohol 2 octyldodecanyl alcohol cetearyl alcohol lanolin alcohol or the like. In particular embodiments the emollient may be selected from cetyl alcohol stearyl alcohol lanolin oil cod liver oil or a combination thereof. In some embodiments the formulation may comprise an emollient such as without limitations cetyl alcohol in an amount from about 2 to about 6 stearyl alcohol in an amount from about 1 to about 3 lanolin in an amount from about 5 to about 15 cod liver oil in an amount from about 0.05 to about 5 or combinations thereof.

In some embodiments the formulation may include one or more viscosity modifiers. In some embodiments the formulation may comprise from about 1 to about 10 or from about 1 to about 6 of each viscosity modifier. The viscosity modifier of such embodiments may generally include a high molecular weight compound such as for example carboxyvinyl polymer carboxymethyl cellulose polyvinyl pyrrolidone hydroxyethyl cellulose methyl cellulose natural gum such as gelatin and tragacanth gum and various alcohols such as polyvinyl alcohol. In other embodiments the viscosity modifier may include ethanol or isopropyl alcohol. In some embodiments the viscosity modifier may be a high molecular weight saturated and unsaturated fatty alcohol such as but not limited to carbitol lauryl alcohol myristyl alcohol cetyl alcohol isocetyl alcohol stearyl alcohol isostearyl alcohol hydroxystearyl alcohol oleyl alcohol ricinoleyl alcohol behenyl alcohol erucyl alcohol 2 octyldodecanyl alcohol cetearyl alcohol lanolin alcohol and the like and in certain embodiments the viscosity modifier may be cetyl alchol stearyl alcohol or a combination thereof. In some embodiments the formulation may comprise a viscosity modifier such as without limitations cetyl alcohol in an amount from about 2 to about 6 stearyl alcohol in an amount from about 1 to about 3 or combinations thereof.

Formulations of embodiments herein may further include a preservative. For example preservatives useful in embodiments may include but are not limited to pentylene glycol ethylene diamine tetra acetate EDTA and its salts chlorhexidine and its diacetate dihydrochloride digluconate derivatives 1 1 1 trichloro 2 methyl 2 propanol parachlorometaxylenol polyhexamethylenebiguanide hydrochloride dehydroacetic acid diazolidinyl urea 2 4 dichlorobenzyl alcohol 4 4 dimethyl 1 3 oxazolidine formaldehyde glutaraldehyde dimethylidantoin imidazolidinyl urea 5 chloro 2 methyl 4 isothiazolin 3 one ortho phenylphenol benzyl alcohol benzoic acid and its salts 4 hydroxybenzoic acid and its methyl ethyl propyl isopropyl butyl isobutyl esters parabens methylparaben propylparaben isopropylparabens isobutylparabens butylparabens ethylparaben trichlosan 2 phenoxyethanol phenyl mercuric acetate quatemium 15 methylsalicylate salicylic acid and its salts sorbic acid and its salts iodopropanyl butylcarbamate calcium sorbate zinc pyrithione 5 bromo Snitro 1 3 dioxane 2 bromo 2 nitropropane 1 3 diol sulfites bisulfites and benzalkonium chloride phenoxyethanol 2 phenoxyethanol chloroxylenol diazolidinyl urea and combinations thereof. In certain embodiments the formulation may include a combination of methylparaben and propylparaben. Preservatives may be provided in any concentration known in the art. For example in some embodiments the formulation may include preservatives in an amount from about 0.01 to about 3 by weight and in embodiments the formulation may include from about 0.05 to about 1 or from about 0.05 to about 0.5 by weight of any one preservative.

The formulations of various embodiments may further include a chelating agent or combination of chelating agents. Examples of the chelating agents useful in various embodiments include but are not limited to alanine sodium polyphosphate sodium methaphosphate citric acid phosphoric acid tartaric acid ethylenediamine tetra acetic acid Edetate EDTA and derivatives and salts thereof dihydroxyethyl glycine and combinations thereof. In particular embodiments the chelating agent may be tetrasodium EDTA. The chelating agents may be provided in any effective amount. For example in some embodiments the formulation may include from about 0.01 to about 2 by weight chelating agent and in other embodiments the formulation may include from about 0.05 to about 0.5 or from about 0.05 to about 0.35 by weight chelating agent.

The formulations of certain embodiments may include one or more antioxidants. Numerous antioxidants are known in the art and any such antioxidant may be used to prepare the formulations described herein. Examples of suitable antioxidants include but are not limited to amino acids such as glycine histidine tyrosine trytophan and derivatives thereof imidazoles such as urocanic acid and derivatives thereof peptides such as D L camosine D camosine L camosine and derivatives thereof such as anserine carotinoids carotenes such as carotene carotene lycopene and derivatives thereof chlorogenic acid and derivatives thereof lipoic acid and derivatives thereof such as dihydrlipoic acid aurothioglycose propylthiouracil and other thiols such as thioredoxin glutathione cysteine cystine cystamine and glycosyl N acetyl methyl ethyl propyl amyl butyl lauryl palmitoyl oleyl linoleyl cholesteryl and glyceryl esters and salts thereof dilauryl thiodipropionate distearyl thiodipropionate thiodipropionic acid and derivatives thereof such as esters ethers peptides lipids nucleotides nucleosides and salts sulfoximine compounds such as buthionine sulfoximines homocysteine sulfoximine buthionine sulfones penta hexa hepta thionine sulfoximine unsaturated fatty acids and derivatives thereof such as linolenic acid linoleic acid oleic acid folic acid and derivatives thereof ubiquinone and ubiquinol and derivatives thereof vitamin C and derivatives there of such as ascorbyl palmitate magnesium ascorbyl phosphate ascorbyl acetate tocopherals and derivatives such as vitamin E acetate vitamin A and derivatives such as vitamin A palmitate vitamin B and derivatives thereof coniferyl benzoate of benzoin resin rutinic acid and derivatives thereof glycosylrutin ferulic acid furfurylidene glucitol carnosine butyl hydroxytoluene trihydroxy butyrophenone uric acid and derivatives thereof mannose and derivatives thereof superoxide dismutase zinc and derivatives thereof such as ZnO ZnSO selenium and derivatives thereof such as selenium methionine stilbene and derivatives thereof such as stilbene oxide trans stilbene oxide and the like. In some embodiments the antioxidants may include vitamin B nordihydroguaiaretic acid butylated hydroxyanisole BHA butylated hydroxytoluene BHT propyl gallate erythorbate acid sodium erythorbate ascorbir palmitate and ascorbir stearate. butyl hydroxyanisole and gallic esters and in particular embodiments the one or more antioxidants may include BHT. The antioxidant may be provided in any suitable amount. For example in some embodiments one or more antioxidants may be from about 0.001 to about 3 by weight of the formulation and in other embodiments the one or more antioxidants may be from about 0.01 to about 1 by weight of the formulation or from about 0.05 to about 1 by weight of the formulation.

In some embodiments the formulation may include a solubilizing agent. In embodiments the solubilizers may be for example hydrochloric acid sodium hydroxide glycine cyclodextrin liquid paraffin hydrogenated castor oil ethanol glycerin propylene glycol dilute hydrochloric acid hydrogenated oils purified water physiological saline water for injection Macrogol 4000 Polysorbate 80 or a combination thereof. In particular embodiments the solubilizing agent may be propylene glycol glycerin or a combination thereof. In embodiments the solubilizing agent comprises from about 1 to about 20 from about 1 to about 10 or from about 2 to about 8 by weight of the formulation.

In certain embodiments the formulation may include one or more opacifying agents. In some embodiments components such as for example emollients surfactants and or emulsifiers may provide sufficient opaqueness. In other embodiments an additional opacifying agent may be provided to the formulation. Opacifying agents are well known in the art and include but are not limited to higher fatty alcohols such as cetyl stearyl cetostearyl alcohol arachidyl and behenyl alcohols solid esters such as cetyl palmitate glyceryllaurate stearamide MEA stearate high molecular weight fatty amides and alkanolamides and various fatty acid derivatives such as propylene glycol and polyethylene glycol esters. In other embodiments opacifying agents may include inorganic materials such as for example magnesium aluminum silicate zinc oxide titanium dioxide and other sun blocking agents. In embodiments in which an opacifying agent is used the opacifying agent may be provided in any amount necessary to provide the desired opaqueness. In such embodiments the opacifying agent may generally be from about 0.01 to about 20 by weight of the formulation and in some embodiments the opacifying agent may be from about 0.01 to about 10 or about 0.02 to about 5 by weight of the formulation.

In some embodiments the formulation may include one or more skin conditioners. Common skin conditioners include for example mineral oil petrolatum aliphatic alcohols lanolin and its derivatives fatty acids glycol fatty acids sugars glycerin propylene glycol sorbitols and polyethylene glycols vitamins and herbal derivatives. Additional skin conditioners can be found in CTFA Cosmetic Ingredient Handbook 1st Ed. 1988 which is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. In some embodiments the one or more skin conditioners may include but are not limited to humectants such as fructose glucose glycerin propylene glycol glycereth 26 mannitol and urea pyrrolidone carboxylic acid hydrolyzed lecithin coco betaine cysteine hydrochloride glutamine polyoxypropylene 15 polyoxyethylene PPG 15 sodium gluconate potassium aspartate oleyl betaine thiamine hydrochloride sodium laureth sulfate sodium hyaluronate hydrolyzed proteins hydrolyzed keratin amino acids amine oxides water soluble derivatives of vitamins A E and D amino functional silicones ethoxylated glycerin hydroxy acids and salts thereof water soluble fatty oil derivatives such as PEG 24 hydrogenated lanolin almond oil grape seed oil and castor oil numerous other water soluble skin conditioners listed and combinations thereof. In certain embodiments the skin conditioners may include lanolin or lanolin derivatives caprylic capric triglyceride diisopropyl adipate and combinations thereof. Skin conditioners may be provided to various embodiments in any amount known in the art and the amount of skin conditioner provided may vary depending upon the type of skin condition or combination of skin conditioners used. In general the formulations of embodiments may include a conditioner in an amount from about 1 to about 30 by weight of the formulation or from about 1 to about 25 by weight of the formulation.

The pH of various embodiments may be of neutral to mildly acidic pH to allow for comfortable application to a subject s skin particularly in light of the disease state or condition suffered by the subject. For example in various embodiments the pH of the formulations may be from about 2.5 to about 7.0 from about 4.0 to about 7.0 or from about 4.0 to about 5.5 at room temperature. In other embodiments the pH of such formulations may be about 4.0 to about 5.0 at room temperature. Any components or combination of components known and useful in the art may be used to achieve an appropriate pH such as for example pH regulators including but not limited to lactic acid citric acid sodium citrate glycolic acid succinic acid phosphoric acid monosodium phosphate disodium phosphate oxalic acid dl malic acid calcium carbonate sodium hydroxide and sodium carbonate sodium hydrogen carbonate and ammonium hydrogen carbonate. In particular embodiments the formulation may include for example citric acid or lactic acid as a pH modifier. In embodiments the pH modifier may comprise from about 0.01 to about 1 from about 0.05 to about 0.5 from about 0.06 to about 0.15 from about 0.06 to about 0.11 or from about 0.06 to about 0.1 by weight of the formulation.

In embodiments the formulation may further comprise a solvent. In some embodiments the solvent may include one or more ingredients therein with water being preferred in certain embodiments. Generally the quantity of water used as a solvent may depend on the various other ingredients used. The solvent may be present in certain embodiments in a range of from about 10 to about 95 by weight with certain embodiments including from about 40 to about 90 from about 42 to about 87 from about 42 to about 80 from about 42 to about 75 from about 42 to about 70 or from about 42 to about 68 by weight of the formulation. The exact quantity of solvent may be dependent on the form of the product. For example a product in lotion form may in certain preferred embodiments include more water than a product in spray form and a product in cream or butter form may include less water than a product in spray form. Deionized water is generally preferred. Other suitable solvent materials may also be used.

In embodiments the formulation of embodiments herein may be physically and chemically stable. In some embodiments the formulation of embodiments herein may be resistant to microbial agents for up to 4 years up to 6 years up to 8 years up to 10 years up to 12 years or up to 20 years. In some embodiments the formulation of embodiments herein may be resistant to microbial agents for from about 4 to about 20 years from about 4 to about 12 years from about 4 to about 10 years from about 4 to about 8 years from about 4 to about 6 years from about 6 to about 20 years from about 6 to about 12 years from about 6 to about 10 years from about 6 to about 8 years from about 8 to about 20 years from about 8 to about 12 years or from about 8 to about 10 years.

One embodiment relates to formulations of allantoin comprising an oil in water emulsion comprising about 3.0 of allantoin water cetyl alcohol stearyl alcohol beeswax sodium lauryl sulfate in a 30 solution citric acid lanolin oil propylene glycol tetrasodium EDTA cod liver oil butylated hydroxytoluene methylparaben and propylparaben. In further embodiments the formulation consists essentially of about 3.0 of allantoin water cetyl alcohol stearyl alcohol beeswax sodium lauryl sulfate in a 30 solution citric acid lanolin oil propylene glycol tetrasodium EDTA cod liver oil butylated hydroxytoluene methylparaben and propylparaben. In certain embodiments the formulation consists of about 3.0 of allantoin water cetyl alcohol stearyl alcohol beeswax sodium lauryl sulfate in a 30 solution citric acid lanolin oil propylene glycol tetrasodium EDTA cod liver oil butylated hydroxytoluene methylparaben and propylparaben. In certain embodiments the formulation further includes a fragrance. In some embodiments the fragrance comprises from about 0.01 to about 5 from about 0.01 to about 3 from about 0.01 to about 2 from about 0.01 to about 1 from about 0.01 to about 0.5 from about 0.05 to about 3 from about 0.05 to about 2 from about 0.05 to about 1 from about 0.05 to about 0.5 by weight of the formulation. In certain embodiments the formulation does not contain a fragrance. In embodiments the formulation may further include an herbal extract. In certain embodiments the formulation does not contain any herbal extracts.

In another embodiment formulations of allantoin comprising an oil in water emulsion comprising about 6.0 of allantoin water cetyl alcohol stearyl alcohol beeswax sodium lauryl sulfate in a 30 solution citric acid lanolin oil propylene glycol tetrasodium EDTA cod liver oil butylated hydroxytoluene methylparaben and propylparaben are provided. In certain embodiments the formulation does not contain a fragrance. In certain embodiments the formulation does not contain any herbal extracts. In further embodiments the formulations consist essentially of about 6.0 of allantoin water cetyl alcohol stearyl alcohol beeswax sodium lauryl sulfate in a 30 solution citric acid lanolin oil propylene glycol tetrasodium EDTA cod liver oil butylated hydroxytoluene methylparaben and propylparaben. In certain embodiments the formulations consist of about 6.0 of allantoin water cetyl alcohol stearyl alcohol beeswax sodium lauryl sulfate in a 30 solution citric acid lanolin oil propylene glycol tetrasodium EDTA cod liver oil butylated hydroxytoluene methylparaben and propylparaben. In certain embodiments the formulation further includes a fragrance. In certain embodiments the formulation does not contain a fragrance. In embodiments the formulation may further include an herbal extract. In certain embodiments the formulation does not contain any herbal extracts.

In another embodiment formulations of allantoin comprising an oil in water emulsion comprising about 9.0 of allantoin water cetyl alcohol stearyl alcohol beeswax sodium lauryl sulfate in a 30 solution citric acid lanolin oil propylene glycol tetrasodium EDTA cod liver oil butylated hydroxytoluene methylparaben and propylparaben are provided. In certain embodiments the formulation does not contain a fragrance. In certain embodiments the formulation does not contain any herbal extracts. In further embodiments the formulation consists essentially of about 9.0 of allantoin water cetyl alcohol stearyl alcohol beeswax sodium lauryl sulfate in a 30 solution citric acid lanolin oil propylene glycol tetrasodium EDTA cod liver oil butylated hydroxytoluene methylparaben and propylparaben. In certain embodiments the formulation consists of about 9.0 of allantoin water cetyl alcohol stearyl alcohol beeswax sodium lauryl sulfate in a 30 solution citric acid lanolin oil propylene glycol tetrasodium EDTA cod liver oil butylated hydroxytoluene methylparaben and propylparaben. In certain embodiments the formulation further includes a fragrance. In certain embodiments the formulation does not contain a fragrance. In embodiments the formulation may further include an herbal extract. In certain embodiments the formulation does not contain any herbal extracts.

In another embodiment the formulation comprises about 3.0 allantoin about 67.01 water about 3.5 cetyl alcohol about 1.7 stearyl alcohol about 2.5 beeswax about 0.09 citric acid about 10.6 lanolin oil about 5.7 propylene glycol about 0.15 tetrasodium EDTA about 2 cod liver oil about 0.5 butylated hydroxytoluene about 0.3 methylparaben about 0.25 propylparaben about 0.2 fragrance and about 2.5 sodium lauryl sulfate in a 30 solution. In further embodiments the formulations consist essentially of about 3.0 allantoin about 67.01 water about 3.5 cetyl alcohol about 1.7 stearyl alcohol about 2.5 beeswax about 0.09 citric acid about 10.6 lanolin oil about 5.7 propylene glycol about 0.15 tetrasodium EDTA about 2 cod liver oil about 0.5 butylated hydroxytoluene about 0.3 methylparaben about 0.25 propylparaben about 0.2 fragrance and about 2.5 sodium lauryl sulfate in a 30 solution. In certain embodiments the formulations consist of about 3.0 allantoin about 67.01 water about 3.5 cetyl alcohol about 1.7 stearyl alcohol about 2.5 beeswax about 0.09 citric acid about 10.6 lanolin oil about 5.7 propylene glycol about 0.15 tetrasodium EDTA about 2 cod liver oil about 0.5 butylated hydroxytoluene about 0.3 methylparaben about 0.25 propylparaben about 0.2 fragrance and about 2.5 sodium lauryl sulfate in a 30 solution.

In another embodiment the formulation comprises about 3.0 allantoin about 67.41 water about 4.2 cetyl alcohol about 2 stearyl alcohol about 1.9 beeswax about 0.09 citric acid about 10.6 lanolin oil about 5.7 propylene glycol about 0.15 tetrasodium EDTA about 2 cod liver oil about 0.5 butylated hydroxytoluene about 0.3 methylparaben about 0.25 propylparaben and about 1.9 sodium lauryl sulfate in a 30 solution. In further embodiments the formulation consists essentially of about 3.0 allantoin about 67.41 water about 4.2 cetyl alcohol about 2 stearyl alcohol about 1.9 beeswax about 0.09 citric acid about 10.6 lanolin oil about 5.7 propylene glycol about 0.15 tetrasodium EDTA about 2 cod liver oil about 0.5 butylated hydroxytoluene about 0.3 methylparaben about 0.25 propylparaben and about 1.9 sodium lauryl sulfate in a 30 solution. In certain embodiments the formulation consists of about 3.0 allantoin about 67.41 water about 4.2 cetyl alcohol about 2 stearyl alcohol about 1.9 beeswax about 0.09 citric acid about 10.6 lanolin oil about 5.7 propylene glycol about 0.15 tetrasodium EDTA about 2 cod liver oil about 0.5 butylated hydroxytoluene about 0.3 methylparaben about 0.25 propylparaben and about 1.9 sodium lauryl sulfate in a 30 solution.

In another embodiment the formulation comprises about 3.0 allantoin about 67.41 water about 4.2 cetyl alcohol about 2 stearyl alcohol about 1.9 beeswax about 0.09 citric acid about 10.6 lanolin oil about 5.7 propylene glycol about 0.15 tetrasodium EDTA about 2 cod liver oil about 0.5 butylated hydroxytoluene about 0.3 methylparaben about 0.25 propylparaben and about 1.5 sodium lauryl sulfate in a 30 solution. In further embodiments the formulations consist essentially of about 3.0 allantoin about 67.41 water about 4.2 cetyl alcohol about 2 stearyl alcohol about 1.9 beeswax about 0.09 citric acid about 10.6 lanolin oil about 5.7 propylene glycol about 0.15 tetrasodium EDTA about 2 cod liver oil about 0.5 butylated hydroxytoluene about 0.3 methylparaben about 0.25 propylparaben and about 1.5 sodium lauryl sulfate in a 30 solution. In certain embodiments the formulations consist of about 3.0 allantoin about 67.41 water about 4.2 cetyl alcohol about 2 stearyl alcohol about 1.9 beeswax about 0.09 citric acid about 10.6 lanolin oil about 5.7 propylene glycol about 0.15 tetrasodium EDTA about 2 cod liver oil about 0.5 butylated hydroxytoluene about 0.3 methylparaben about 0.25 propylparaben and about 1.5 sodium lauryl sulfate in a 30 solution.

In another embodiment the formulation comprises about 3.0 allantoin water cetyl alcohol stearyl alcohol beeswax about 0.09 citric acid about 10.6 lanolin oil about 5.7 propylene glycol about 0.15 tetrasodium EDTA about 2 cod liver oil about 0.5 butylated hydroxytoluene about 0.3 methylparaben about 0.25 propylparaben and about 2.0 sodium lauryl sulfate in a 30 solution. In further embodiments the formulation consists essentially of about 3.0 allantoin water cetyl alcohol stearyl alcohol beeswax about 0.09 citric acid about 10.6 lanolin oil about 5.7 propylene glycol about 0.15 tetrasodium EDTA about 2 cod liver oil about 0.5 butylated hydroxytoluene about 0.3 methylparaben about 0.25 propylparaben and about 2.0 sodium lauryl sulfate in a 30 solution. In certain embodiments the formulation consists of about 3.0 allantoin water cetyl alcohol stearyl alcohol beeswax about 0.09 citric acid about 10.6 lanolin oil about 5.7 propylene glycol about 0.15 tetrasodium EDTA about 2 cod liver oil about 0.5 butylated hydroxytoluene about 0.3 methylparaben about 0.25 propylparaben and about 2.0 sodium lauryl sulfate in a 30 solution.

In another embodiment the formulation comprises about 6.0 allantoin about 63.98 water about 3.23 cetyl alcohol about 1.5 stearyl alcohol about 2.75 beeswax about 0.09 citric acid about 10.6 lanolin oil about 5.7 propylene glycol about 0.15 tetrasodium EDTA about 2 cod liver oil about 0.5 butylated hydroxytoluene about 0.3 methylparaben about 0.25 propylparaben about 0.2 fragrance and about 2.75 sodium lauryl sulfate in a 30 solution. In further embodiments the formulations consist essentially of about 6.0 allantoin about 63.98 water about 3.23 cetyl alcohol about 1.5 stearyl alcohol about 2.75 beeswax about 0.09 citric acid about 10.6 lanolin oil about 5.7 propylene glycol about 0.15 tetrasodium EDTA about 2 cod liver oil about 0.5 butylated hydroxytoluene about 0.3 methylparaben about 0.25 propylparaben about 0.2 fragrance and about 2.75 sodium lauryl sulfate in a 30 solution. In certain embodiments the formulations consist of about 6.0 allantoin about 63.98 water about 3.23 cetyl alcohol about 1.5 stearyl alcohol about 2.75 beeswax about 0.09 citric acid about 10.6 lanolin oil about 5.7 propylene glycol about 0.15 tetrasodium EDTA about 2 cod liver oil about 0.5 butylated hydroxytoluene about 0.3 methylparaben about 0.25 propylparaben about 0.2 fragrance and about 2.75 sodium lauryl sulfate in a 30 solution.

In another embodiment the formulation comprises about 6.0 allantoin about 64.81 water about 3.5 cetyl alcohol about 1.5 stearyl alcohol about 2.3 beeswax about 0.09 citric acid about 10.6 lanolin oil about 5.7 propylene glycol about 0.15 tetrasodium EDTA about 2 cod liver oil about 0.5 butylated hydroxytoluene about 0.3 methylparaben about 0.25 propylparaben and about 2.3 sodium lauryl sulfate in a 30 solution. In further embodiments the formulations consist essentially of about 6.0 allantoin about 64.81 water about 3.5 cetyl alcohol about 1.5 stearyl alcohol about 2.3 beeswax about 0.09 citric acid about 10.6 lanolin oil about 5.7 propylene glycol about 0.15 tetrasodium EDTA about 2 cod liver oil about 0.5 butylated hydroxytoluene about 0.3 methylparaben about 0.25 propylparaben and about 2.3 sodium lauryl sulfate in a 30 solution. In certain embodiments the formulations consist of about 6.0 allantoin about 64.81 water about 3.5 cetyl alcohol about 1.5 stearyl alcohol about 2.3 beeswax about 0.09 citric acid about 10.6 lanolin oil about 5.7 propylene glycol about 0.15 tetrasodium EDTA about 2 cod liver oil about 0.5 butylated hydroxytoluene about 0.3 methylparaben about 0.25 propylparaben and about 2.3 sodium lauryl sulfate in a 30 solution.

In another embodiment the formulation comprises about 6.0 allantoin about 65.11 water about 3.6 cetyl alcohol about 1.7 stearyl alcohol about 2.0 beeswax about 0.09 citric acid about 10.6 lanolin oil about 5.7 propylene glycol about 0.15 tetrasodium EDTA about 2 cod liver oil about 0.5 butylated hydroxytoluene about 0.3 methylparaben about 0.25 propylparaben and about 2.0 sodium lauryl sulfate in a 30 solution. In further embodiments the formulations consist essentially of about 6.0 allantoin about 65.11 water about 3.6 cetyl alcohol about 1.7 stearyl alcohol about 2.0 beeswax about 0.09 citric acid about 10.6 lanolin oil about 5.7 propylene glycol about 0.15 tetrasodium EDTA about 2 cod liver oil about 0.5 butylated hydroxytoluene about 0.3 methylparaben about 0.25 propylparaben and about 2.0 sodium lauryl sulfate in a 30 solution. In certain embodiments the formulations consist of about 6.0 allantoin about 65.11 water about 3.6 cetyl alcohol about 1.7 stearyl alcohol about 2.0 beeswax about 0.09 citric acid about 10.6 lanolin oil about 5.7 propylene glycol about 0.15 tetrasodium EDTA about 2 cod liver oil about 0.5 butylated hydroxytoluene about 0.3 methylparaben about 0.25 propylparaben and about 2.0 sodium lauryl sulfate in a 30 solution.

In another embodiment the formulation comprises about 6.0 allantoin water cetyl alcohol stearyl alcohol beeswax about 0.09 citric acid about 10.6 lanolin oil about 5.7 propylene glycol about 0.15 tetrasodium EDTA about 2 cod liver oil about 0.5 butylated hydroxytoluene about 0.3 methylparaben about 0.25 propylparaben and about 1.5 sodium lauryl sulfate in a 30 solution. In further embodiments the formulations consist essentially of about 6.0 allantoin water cetyl alcohol stearyl alcohol beeswax about 0.09 citric acid about 10.6 lanolin oil about 5.7 propylene glycol about 0.15 tetrasodium EDTA about 2 cod liver oil about 0.5 butylated hydroxytoluene about 0.3 methylparaben about 0.25 propylparaben and about 1.5 sodium lauryl sulfate in a 30 solution. In certain embodiments the formulations consist of about 6.0 allantoin water cetyl alcohol stearyl alcohol beeswax about 0.09 citric acid about 10.6 lanolin oil about 5.7 propylene glycol about 0.15 tetrasodium EDTA about 2 cod liver oil about 0.5 butylated hydroxytoluene about 0.3 methylparaben about 0.25 propylparaben and about 1.5 sodium lauryl sulfate in a 30 solution.

In another embodiment the formulation comprises about 9.0 allantoin about 61.78 water about 2.7 cetyl alcohol about 1.2 stearyl alcohol about 2.75 beeswax about 0.12 citric acid about 10.6 lanolin oil about 5.7 propylene glycol about 0.15 tetrasodium EDTA about 2 cod liver oil about 0.5 butylated hydroxytoluene about 0.3 methylparaben about 0.25 propylparaben about 0.2 fragrance and about 2.75 sodium lauryl sulfate in a 30 solution. In further embodiments the formulations consist essentially of about 9.0 allantoin about 61.78 water about 2.7 cetyl alcohol about 1.2 stearyl alcohol about 2.75 beeswax about 0.12 citric acid about 10.6 lanolin oil about 5.7 propylene glycol about 0.15 tetrasodium EDTA about 2 cod liver oil about 0.5 butylated hydroxytoluene about 0.3 methylparaben about 0.25 propylparaben about 0.2 fragrance and about 2.75 sodium lauryl sulfate in a 30 solution. In certain embodiments the formulations consist of about 9.0 allantoin about 61.78 water about 2.7 cetyl alcohol about 1.2 stearyl alcohol about 2.75 beeswax about 0.12 citric acid about 10.6 lanolin oil about 5.7 propylene glycol about 0.15 tetrasodium EDTA about 2 cod liver oil about 0.5 butylated hydroxytoluene about 0.3 methylparaben about 0.25 propylparaben about 0.2 fragrance and about 2.75 sodium lauryl sulfate in a 30 solution.

In another embodiment the formulation comprises about 9.0 allantoin about 63.71 water about 2.5 cetyl alcohol about 1.2 stearyl alcohol about 2.0 beeswax about 0.09 citric acid about 10.6 lanolin oil about 5.7 propylene glycol about 0.15 tetrasodium EDTA about 2 cod liver oil about 0.5 butylated hydroxytoluene about 0.3 methylparaben about 0.25 propylparaben and about 2.0 sodium lauryl sulfate in a 30 solution. In further embodiments the formulations consist essentially of about 9.0 allantoin about 63.71 water about 2.5 cetyl alcohol about 1.2 stearyl alcohol about 2.0 beeswax about 0.09 citric acid about 10.6 lanolin oil about 5.7 propylene glycol about 0.15 tetrasodium EDTA about 2 cod liver oil about 0.5 butylated hydroxytoluene about 0.3 methylparaben about 0.25 propylparaben and about 2.0 sodium lauryl sulfate in a 30 solution. In certain embodiments the formulations consist of about 9.0 allantoin about 63.71 water about 2.5 cetyl alcohol about 1.2 stearyl alcohol about 2.0 beeswax about 0.09 citric acid about 10.6 lanolin oil about 5.7 propylene glycol about 0.15 tetrasodium EDTA about 2 cod liver oil about 0.5 butylated hydroxytoluene about 0.3 methylparaben about 0.25 propylparaben and about 2.0 sodium lauryl sulfate in a 30 solution.

In another embodiment the formulation comprises about 9.0 allantoin water cetyl alcohol stearyl alcohol beeswax citric acid about 10.6 lanolin oil about 5.7 propylene glycol about 0.15 tetrasodium EDTA about 2 cod liver oil about 0.5 butylated hydroxytoluene about 0.3 methylparaben about 0.25 propylparaben and 1.5 sodium lauryl sulfate in a 30 solution. In further embodiments the formulations consist essentially of about 9.0 allantoin water cetyl alcohol stearyl alcohol beeswax citric acid about 10.6 lanolin oil about 5.7 propylene glycol about 0.15 tetrasodium EDTA about 2 cod liver oil about 0.5 butylated hydroxytoluene about 0.3 methylparaben about 0.25 propylparaben and 1.5 sodium lauryl sulfate in a 30 solution. In certain embodiments the formulations consist of about 9.0 allantoin water cetyl alcohol stearyl alcohol beeswax citric acid about 10.6 lanolin oil about 5.7 propylene glycol about 0.15 tetrasodium EDTA about 2 cod liver oil about 0.5 butylated hydroxytoluene about 0.3 methylparaben about 0.25 propylparaben and 1.5 sodium lauryl sulfate in a 30 solution.

In another embodiment the formulation comprises about 9.0 allantoin water cetyl alcohol stearyl alcohol beeswax citric acid about 10.6 lanolin oil about 5.7 propylene glycol about 0.15 tetrasodium EDTA about 2 cod liver oil about 0.5 butylated hydroxytoluene about 0.3 methylparaben about 0.25 propylparaben and sodium lauryl sulfate in a 30 solution. In further embodiments the formulations consist essentially of about 9.0 allantoin water cetyl alcohol stearyl alcohol beeswax citric acid about 10.6 lanolin oil about 5.7 propylene glycol about 0.15 tetrasodium EDTA about 2 cod liver oil about 0.5 butylated hydroxytoluene about 0.3 methylparaben about 0.25 propylparaben and sodium lauryl sulfate in a 30 solution. In certain embodiments the formulations consist of about 9.0 allantoin water cetyl alcohol stearyl alcohol beeswax citric acid about 10.6 lanolin oil about 5.7 propylene glycol about 0.15 tetrasodium EDTA about 2 cod liver oil about 0.5 butylated hydroxytoluene about 0.3 methylparaben about 0.25 propylparaben and sodium lauryl sulfate in a 30 solution.

Embodiments herein are also directed to methods of treating inflammatory skin conditions comprising administering a composition comprising an oil in water emulsion comprising allantoin in an amount from about 0.5 to about 15 by weight and a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient. In some embodiments the formulation of allantoin comprises an oil in water emulsion comprising allantoin an emollient an emulsifier and a solvent. In some embodiments the formulation further comprises a pH modifier a solubilizing agent an antioxidant a preservative a chelating agent an additive a viscosity agent or a combination thereof. In some embodiments the formulation comprises allantoin an emollient an emulsifier a pH modifier a solubilizing agent an antioxidant a preservative and a solvent. In some embodiments the formulation consists essentially of allantoin an emollient an emulsifier a pH modifier a solubilizing agent an antioxidant a preservative and a solvent. In some embodiments the formulation consists of allantoin an emollient an emulsifier a pH modifier a solubilizing agent an antioxidant a preservative and a solvent. In some embodiments a method of treating inflammatory skin conditions in a patient in need thereof comprises administering a formulation comprising allantoin a solvent an emollient an emulsifier an antioxidant a preservative a pH modifier and a solubilizing agent wherein the allantoin is present in an amount of about 0.5 to about 15 by weight. In some embodiments a method of treating inflammatory skin conditions in a patient in need thereof comprises administering a formulation consisting essentially of allantoin a solvent an emollient an emulsifier an antioxidant a preservative a pH modifier and a solubilizing agent wherein the allantoin is present in an amount of about 0.5 to about 15 by weight. In some embodiments a method of treating inflammatory skin conditions in a patient in need thereof comprises administering a formulation consisting of allantoin a solvent an emollient an emulsifier an antioxidant a preservative a pH modifier and a solubilizing agent wherein the allantoin is present in an amount of about 0.5 to about 15 by weight.

In another embodiment a method of treating Epidermolysis bullosa comprises administering a formulation of allantoin comprising an oil in water emulsion comprising allantoin an emollient an emulsifier a solvent and a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient. In some embodiments the formulation further comprises a pH modifier a solubilizing agent an antioxidant a preservative a chelating agent an additive a viscosity agent or a combination thereof. In some embodiments the formulation comprises allantoin an emollient an emulsifier a pH modifier a solubilizing agent an antioxidant a preservative a solvent and a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient. In some embodiments the formulation consists essentially of allantoin an emollient an emulsifier a pH modifier a solubilizing agent an antioxidant a preservative a solvent and a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient. In some embodiments the formulation consists of allantoin an emollient an emulsifier a pH modifier a solubilizing agent an antioxidant a preservative a solvent and a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient. In some embodiments a method of treating Epidermolysis bullosa in a patient in need thereof comprises administering a formulation comprising allantoin a solvent an emollient an emulsifier an antioxidant a preservative a pH modifier a solubilizing agent and a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient wherein the allantoin is present in an amount of about 0.5 to about 15 by weight. In some embodiments a method of treating Epidermolysis bullosa in a patient in need thereof comprises administering a formulation consisting essentially of allantoin a solvent an emollient an emulsifier an antioxidant a preservative a pH modifier a solubilizing agent and a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient wherein the allantoin is present in an amount of about 0.5 to about 15 by weight. In some embodiments a method of treating Epidermolysis bullosa in a patient in need thereof comprises administering a formulation consisting of allantoin a solvent an emollient an emulsifier an antioxidant a preservative a pH modifier a solubilizing agent and a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient wherein the allantoin is present in an amount of about 0.5 to about 15 by weight.

In another embodiment a method of treating psoriasis comprises administering a formulation of allantoin comprising an oil in water emulsion comprising allantoin an emollient an emulsifier a solvent and a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient. In some embodiments the formulation further comprises a pH modifier a solubilizing agent an antioxidant a preservative a chelating agent an additive a viscosity agent or a combination thereof. In some embodiments the formulation comprises allantoin an emollient an emulsifier a pH modifier a solubilizing agent an antioxidant a preservative a solvent and a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient. In some embodiments the formulation consists essentially of allantoin an emollient an emulsifier a pH modifier a solubilizing agent an antioxidant a preservative a solvent and a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient. In some embodiments the formulation consists of allantoin an emollient an emulsifier a pH modifier a solubilizing agent an antioxidant a preservative a solvent and a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient. In some embodiments a method of treating psoriasis in a patient in need thereof comprises administering a formulation comprising allantoin a solvent an emollient an emulsifier an antioxidant a preservative a pH modifier a solubilizing agent and a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient wherein the allantoin is present in an amount of about 0.5 to about 15 by weight. In some embodiments a method of treating psoriasis in a patient in need thereof comprises administering a formulation consisting essentially of allantoin a solvent an emollient an emulsifier an antioxidant a preservative a pH modifier a solubilizing agent and a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient wherein the allantoin is present in an amount of about 0.5 to about 15 by weight. In some embodiments a method of treating psoriasis in a patient in need thereof comprises administering a formulation consisting of allantoin a solvent an emollient an emulsifier an antioxidant a preservative a pH modifier a solubilizing agent and a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient wherein the allantoin is present in an amount of about 0.5 to about 15 by weight. As shown in Example 11 it is believed that formulations containing above 1.5 allantoin are better able to treat psoriasis than formulations of 1.5 or below. Accordingly embodiments herein include a method of treating psoriasis disclosed herein wherein allantoin is present an amount greater than about 1.5 to about 15 .

In another embodiment a method of treating diabetic ulcers comprises administering a formulation of allantoin comprising an oil in water emulsion comprising allantoin an emollient an emulsifier a solvent and a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient. In some embodiments the formulation further comprises a pH modifier a solubilizing agent an antioxidant a preservative a chelating agent an additive a viscosity agent or a combination thereof. In some embodiments the formulation comprises allantoin an emollient an emulsifier a pH modifier a solubilizing agent an antioxidant a preservative a solvent and a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient. In some embodiments the formulation consists essentially of allantoin an emollient an emulsifier a pH modifier a solubilizing agent an antioxidant a preservative a solvent and a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient. In some embodiments the formulation consists of allantoin an emollient an emulsifier a pH modifier a solubilizing agent an antioxidant a preservative a solvent and a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient. In some embodiments a method of treating diabetic ulcers in a patient in need thereof comprises administering a formulation comprising allantoin a solvent an emollient an emulsifier an antioxidant a preservative a pH modifier a solubilizing agent and a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient wherein the allantoin is present in an amount of about 0.5 to about 15 by weight. In some embodiments a method of treating diabetic ulcers in a patient in need thereof comprises administering a formulation consisting essentially of allantoin a solvent an emollient an emulsifier an antioxidant a preservative a pH modifier a solubilizing agent and a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient wherein the allantoin is present in an amount of about 0.5 to about 15 by weight. In some embodiments a method of treating diabetic ulcers in a patient in need thereof comprises administering a formulation consisting of allantoin a solvent an emollient an emulsifier an antioxidant a preservative a pH modifier a solubilizing agent and a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient wherein the allantoin is present in an amount of about 0.5 to about 15 by weight.

In another embodiment a method of treating atopic dermatitis comprises administering a formulation of allantoin comprising an oil in water emulsion comprising allantoin an emollient an emulsifier a solvent and a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient. In some embodiments the formulation further comprises a pH modifier a solubilizing agent an antioxidant a preservative a chelating agent an additive a viscosity agent or a combination thereof. In some embodiments the formulation comprises allantoin an emollient an emulsifier a pH modifier a solubilizing agent an antioxidant a preservative a solvent and a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient. In some embodiments the formulation consists essentially of allantoin an emollient an emulsifier a pH modifier a solubilizing agent an antioxidant a preservative a solvent and a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient. In some embodiments the formulation consists of allantoin an emollient an emulsifier a pH modifier a solubilizing agent an antioxidant a preservative a solvent and a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient. In some embodiments a method of treating atopic dermatitis in a patient in need thereof comprises administering a formulation comprising allantoin a solvent an emollient an emulsifier an antioxidant a preservative a pH modifier a solubilizing agent and a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient wherein the allantoin is present in an amount of about 0.5 to about 15 by weight. In some embodiments a method of treating atopic dermatitis in a patient in need thereof comprises administering a formulation consisting essentially of allantoin a solvent an emollient an emulsifier an antioxidant a preservative a pH modifier a solubilizing agent and a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient wherein the allantoin is present in an amount of about 0.5 to about 15 by weight. In some embodiments a method of treating atopic dermatitis in a patient in need thereof comprises administering a formulation consisting of allantoin a solvent an emollient an emulsifier an antioxidant a preservative a pH modifier a solubilizing agent and a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient wherein the allantoin is present in an amount of about 0.5 to about 15 by weight.

Embodiments of the present disclosure also relate to the use of formulations of allantoin in connection with excipients or stabilizers. Stabilizers include carbohydrates amino acids fatty acids and surfactants and are known to those skilled in the art.

Compositions according to the embodiments described herein can contain other optional ingredients. For example compositions according to the present embodiments can contain glycerin lactic acid lipid soluble components such as but not limited to caprylic capric triglycerides steareth 2 steareth 21 polygrlyceryl 3 beeswax a branched carboxylic acid ester of a branched chain alcohol selected from the group consisting of isononyl isononanoate isodecyl isononanoate isooctyl isononanotate isooctyl isooctanoate isononyl isooctanoate isodecyl isooctanoate isononyl isodecanoate isooctyl isodecanoate and isodecyl isodecanoate an acrylates C Calkyl acrylates cross polymer methylgluceth 20 a glyceryl ester of a long chain fatty acid selected from the group consisting of glyceryl monostearate glyceryl monopalmitate and glyceryl monoarachidate hydrogenated vegetable oil squalane C Calkyl benzoates di C Calkyl fumarate cholesterol lanolin alcohol octyldodecanol isostearic acid a branched chain neopentanoate selected from the group consisting of octyldodecyl neopentanoate heptyldodecyl neopentanoate nonyldodecyl neopentanoate octylundecyl neopentanoate heptylundecyl neopentanoate nonylundecyl neopentanoate octyltridecyl neopentanoate heptyltridecyl neopentanoate and nonyltridecyl neopentanoate an arachidyl ester of a short chain carboxylic acid selected from the group consisting of arachidyl propionate arachidyl acetate arachidyl butyrate and arachidyl isobutyrate a long chain fatty acid ester of a medium chain alcohol selected from the group consisting of octyl palmitate octyl myristate octyl stearate heptyl palmitate heptylmyristate heptyl stearate nonyl palmitate nonyl myristate and nonyl stearate jojoba oil a myristyl ester of a long chain fatty acid selected from the group consisting of myristyl myristate myristyl laurate and myristyl palmitate bisabolol hydrogenated jojoba oil jojoba esters methyl gluceth 20 sesquistearate PPG 14 butyl ether PPG 15 stearyl ether PPG 1 isoceteth 3 accetate laureth 2 benzoate diisostearyl dimmer dilinoleate a long chain cis monounsaturated fatty acid ester of a medium chain alcohol a medium chain saturated carboxylic acid ester of a long chain alcohol hydrogenated soy glycerides a long chain fatty acid ester of cetyl alcohol selected from the group consisting of cetyl palmitate cetyl stearate and cetyl myristate palm kernel oil palm oil and an arachidyl ester such as arachidyl acetate arachidyl propionate arachidyl butyrate or arachidyl isobutyrate.

In addition the composition can further comprise other ingredients that are generally used in the cosmetic art and in the art of over the counter skin preparations. These ingredients include but are not limited to 1 other plant extracts such as horsetail extract horse chestnut extract rose extract or lavender extract 2 a short chain carboxylic acid ester of tocopherol selected from the group consisting of tocopheryl acetate tocopheryl propionate tocopheryl butyrate and tocopheryl isobutyrate 3 a long chain fatty acid ester of ascorbic acid selected from the group consisting of ascorbyl myristate ascorbyl palmitate and ascorbyl stearate 4 a long chain fatty acid ester of retinol or a retinol derivative or analogue wherein the acyl moiety of the ester is selected from the group consisting of myristic acid palmitic acid and stearic acid and 5 a sunscreen which can be at least one compound selected from the group consisting of octyl methoxycinnamate p aminobenzoate glyceryl p aminobenzoate p dimethylaminobenzoic acid methyl anthranilate menthyl anthranilate phenyl anthranilate benzyl anthranilate phenylethyl anthranilate linalyl anthranilate terpinyl anthranilate cyclohexenyl anthranilate amyl salicylate phenyl salicylate benzyl salicylate menthyl salicylate glyceryl salicylate dipropyleneglycol salicylate methyl cinnamate benzyl cinnamate phenyl cinnamonitrile butyl cinnamoylpyruvate umbelliferone methylacetoumbelliferone esculetin methylesculetin daphnetin esculin daphnin diphenylbutadiene stilbene dibenzalacetone benzalacetophenone sodium 2 naphthol 3 6 disulfonate sodium 2 naphthol 6 8 disulfonate dihydroxynaphthoic acid salts of dihydroxynaphthoic acid o hydroxy biphenyldisulfonates p hydroxybiphenyldisulfonates 7 hydroxycoumarin 7 methylcoumarin 3 phenyl coumarin 2 acetyl 3 bromoindazole phenylbenzoxazole methylnaphthoxazole arylbenzothiazoles quinine bisulfate quinine sulfate quinine chloride quinine oleate quinine tannate 8 hydroxyquinoline salts 2 phenylquinoline hydroxyl substituted benzophenones methoxy substituted benzophenones uric acid vilouric acid tannic acid tannic acid hexaethylether hydroquinone oxybenzone sulisobenzone dioxybenzone benzoresorcinol 2 2 4 4 tetrahydroxybenzophenone 2 2 dihydroxy 4 4 dimethoxybenzophenone octabenzone butylmethoxydibenzoylmethane etocrylene and 4 isopropyldibenzoylmethane. Other ingredients can also optionally be included such as colorants pigments opacifiers and the like.

Methods according to the embodiments described herein provide rapid improvement are well tolerated by patients are easy to apply and can be used alone or with other methods for treatment of skin conditions. Alternative formulations with reduced sodium lauryl sulfate reduced beeswax and no fragrance are better suited to treat diseases such as Epidermolysis bullosa where the skin is fragile and sensitive to irritants. It was unexpectedly found that these formulations though they have reduced sodium lauryl sulfate and reduced beeswax have a stable emulsion in room temperatures and are effective in treating inflammatory skin conditions. In particular formulations of embodiments herein have better penetration of intact skin and are able to deliver the active i.e. allantoin across intact skin.

In any of the foregoing embodiments the composition can further include fragrance. The use of fragrance is well known in the art of over the counter drug formulation and many suitable fragrances are known in the art. The stability and function of the composition is not altered by the presence or absence of fragrance. In many alternatives it may be desirable to avoid the use of fragrance which may trigger allergic reaction in patients predisposed to such reactions. Accordingly in certain embodiments the composition excludes a fragrance.

The compositions can further include other ingredients such as proteins humectants other preservatives essential oils other vitamins colorants hydroxyacids other plant extracts sunscreens sodium hyaluronate lipids fatty acids thickeners panthenol and the like. The use of such components is conventional in the over the counter drug art. Typical sunscreens are octyl methoxycinnamate and benzophenone 3.

In any of the foregoing embodiments the term inflammatory skin conditions is used interchangeably with inflammatory skin diseases and includes cutaneous porphyria sclerodema epidermolysis bullosa psoriasis decubitus ulcers pressure ulcers diabetic ulcers venous stasis ulcers sickle cell ulcers ulcers caused by burns eczema urticaria atopic dermatitis dermatitis herpetiform contact dermatitis arthritis gout lupus erythematosus acne alopecia carcinomas psoriasis rosacea miliaria skin infections post operative care of incisions post operative skin care following any variety of plastic surgery operations skin care following radiation treatment care of dry cracked or aged skin and skin lines as well as other conditions affecting the skin and having an inflammatory component. The term may also include symptoms associated with such diseases such as without limitation pain scarring inflammation redness milia itching skin thickening blisters or other symptoms associated with inflammatory disease.

Pharmaceutical compositions provided by the present disclosure may comprise formulations of allantoin and in certain embodiments in purified form together with a suitable amount of one or more pharmaceutically acceptable vehicles so as to provide a composition for proper administration to a patient with an inflammatory skin disease. Suitable pharmaceutical vehicles also include excipients such as starch glucose lactose sucrose gelatin malt rice flour chalk silica gel sodium stearate glycerol monostearate talc sodium chloride dried skim milk glycerol propylene glycol water ethanol and the like. The present compositions may also contain wetting agents emulsifying agents and or pH buffering agents. In addition auxiliary stabilizing thickening lubricating and or coloring agents may be used. Other examples of suitable pharmaceutical vehicles are described in the art see for example Remington s Pharmaceutical Sciences Lippincott Williams Wilkins 21st Edition 2005 .

Pharmaceutical compositions disclosed herein may be prepared by standard mixing techniques such as are conventional in the cosmetic art and in the art of over the counter drug formulation for blending lipid soluble components and water soluble components. These mixing techniques include both manual and mechanical mixing and include homogenization mixing and sweep mixing. The mixing techniques to be used can be chosen by one of ordinary skill in the art based on variables such as the viscosity of the components to be mixed and the volume of those components as well as the relative proportion of lipid soluble and water soluble ingredients. The composition can be mixed in two or more batches such as one batch containing lipid soluble ingredients and another batch containing water soluble ingredients and the batches can then be mixed at the final state of preparation.

For example pharmaceutical compositions disclosed herein may be manufactured by following these steps 1 mix and heat water 30 solution of sodium lauryl sulfate propylene glycol tetrasodium EDTA and citric acid in one container Container 1 2 in another container Container 2 mix and heat lanolin oil beeswax stearyl alcohol and cetyl alcohol 3 when both containers reach about 170 180 F. add contents of Container 2 to Container 1 4 add cod liver oil and butyl hydroxytoluene BHT 5 mix for about thirty minutes 6 add allantoin 7 mix for about thirty minutes 8 cool contents to about 120 F. 9 add methylparaben and propylparaben 10 mix for about ten minutes 11 remove the mixer and insert the homogenizer 12 activate the homogenizer for about five minutes 13 remove the homogenizer and insert mixer 14 mix for about thirty minutes while maintaining temperature range of about 115 120 F. 15 continue mixing while contents are cooled to about 115 F. 16 stop mixing when contents reach about 115 F. 17 remove mixer and cover drum 18 store cream overnight at room temperature and 19 package the cream into finished product containers.

Pharmaceutical compositions may be formulated in a conventional manner using one or more physiologically acceptable carriers diluents excipients or auxiliaries which facilitate processing of allantoin and one or more pharmaceutically acceptable vehicles into formulations that can be used pharmaceutically. Proper formulation is dependent upon the route of administration chosen.

Pharmaceutical compositions provided by the present disclosure may be administered for therapeutic or prophylactic treatments. A therapeutic amount is an amount sufficient to remedy a disease state or symptoms or otherwise prevent hinder retard or reverse the progression of disease or any other undesirable symptoms in any way whatsoever. In prophylactic applications pharmaceutical compositions or the present disclosure may be administered to a patient susceptible to or otherwise at risk of a particular disease or infection. Hence a prophylactically effective amount is an amount sufficient to prevent hinder or retard a disease state or its symptoms.

Specific modes of administration will depend on the indication. The selection of the specific route of administration and the dose regimen is to be adjusted or titrated by the clinician according to methods known to the clinician in order to obtain the optimal clinical response. The amount of compound to be administered is that amount which is therapeutically effective. The dosage to be administered will depend on the characteristics of the subject being treated e.g. the particular animal treated age weight health types of concurrent treatment if any and frequency of treatments and can be easily determined by one of skill in the art e.g. by the clinician .

Pharmaceutical formulations containing the above described compound and a suitable carrier can be topical dosage forms which include but are not limited to solutions powders fluid emulsions fluid suspensions semi solids ointments pastes creams gels and jellies and foams comprising an effective amount of a polymer or copolymer of the present embodiment. It is also known in the art that the active ingredients can be contained in such formulations with pharmaceutically acceptable diluents fillers disintegrants binders lubricants surfactants hydrophobic vehicles water soluble vehicles emulsifiers buffers humectants moisturizers solubilizers preservatives and the like. The means and methods for administration are known in the art and an artisan can refer to various pharmacologic references for guidance. For example Modem Pharmaceutics Banker Rhodes Marcel Dekker Inc. 1979 and Goodman Gilman s The Pharmaceutical Basis of Therapeutics 6th Edition MacMillan Publishing Co. New York 1980 can be consulted.

The embodiments illustrating the methods and materials used may be further understood by reference to the following non limiting examples.

A formulation containing 3.0 allantoin 67.01 water 3.5 cetyl alcohol 1.7 stearyl alcohol 2.5 beeswax 0.09 citric acid 10.6 lanolin oil 5.7 propylene glycol 0.15 tetrasodium EDTA 2 cod liver oil 0.5 butylated hydroxytoluene 0.3 methylparaben 0.25 propylparaben 0.2 fragrance and 2.5 sodium lauryl sulfate in a 30 solution was made. The pH of this formulation is 4.58.

A formulation containing 3.0 allantoin 67.41 water 4.2 cetyl alcohol 2 stearyl alcohol 1.9 beeswax 0.09 citric acid 10.6 lanolin oil 5.7 propylene glycol 0.15 tetrasodium EDTA 2 cod liver oil 0.5 butylated hydroxytoluene 0.3 methylparaben 0.25 propylparaben and 1.9 sodium lauryl sulfate in a 30 solution was made. The pH of this formulation is 4.54. It is desirous to reduce irritants due to the indications of these inflammatory skin conditions thus we reduced the amounts of beeswax and sodium lauryl sulfate and removed the fragrance. It was unexpected that such a reduction of these ingredients created an effective composition because lowering the emulsifier concentration may not result in a system that demonstrates long term stability.

A formulation containing 3.0 allantoin water cetyl alcohol stearyl alcohol beeswax 0.09 citric acid 10.6 lanolin oil 5.7 propylene glycol 0.15 tetrasodium EDTA 2 cod liver oil 0.5 butylated hydroxytoluene 0.3 methylparaben 0.25 propylparaben and 1.5 sodium lauryl sulfate in a 30 solution was made. It is desirous to reduce irritants due to the indications of these inflammatory skin conditions thus we reduced the amounts of beeswax and sodium lauryl sulfate and removed the fragrance. It was unexpected that such a reduction of these ingredients created an effective composition because lowering the emulsifier concentration may not result in a system that demonstrates long term stability at room temperature.

A formulation containing 6.0 allantoin 63.98 water 3.23 cetyl alcohol 1.5 stearyl alcohol 2.75 beeswax 0.09 citric acid 10.6 lanolin oil 5.7 propylene glycol 0.15 tetrasodium EDTA 2 cod liver oil 0.5 butylated hydroxytoluene 0.3 methylparaben 0.25 propylparaben 0.2 fragrance and 2.75 sodium lauryl sulfate in a 30 solution was made. The pH of this formulation is 4.62.

A formulation containing 6.0 allantoin 64.81 water 3.5 cetyl alcohol 1.5 stearyl alcohol 2.3 beeswax 0.09 citric acid 10.6 lanolin oil 5.7 propylene glycol 0.15 tetrasodium EDTA 2 cod liver oil 0.5 butylated hydroxytoluene 0.3 methylparaben 0.25 propylparaben and 2.3 sodium lauryl sulfate in a 30 solution was made. The pH of this formulation is 4.51. It is desirous to reduce irritants due to the indications of these inflammatory skin conditions thus we reduced the amounts of beeswax and sodium lauryl sulfate and removed the fragrance. It was unexpected that such a reduction of these ingredients created an effective composition because lowering the emulsifier concentration may not result in a system that demonstrates long term stability at room temperature.

A formulation containing 6.0 allantoin 65.11 water 3.6 cetyl alcohol 1.7 stearyl alcohol 2.0 beeswax 0.09 citric acid 10.6 lanolin oil 5.7 propylene glycol 0.15 tetrasodium EDTA 2 cod liver oil 0.5 butylated hydroxytoluene 0.3 methylparaben 0.25 propylparaben and 2.0 sodium lauryl sulfate in a 30 solution was made. It is desirous to reduce irritants due to the indications of these inflammatory skin conditions thus we reduced the amounts of beeswax and sodium lauryl sulfate and removed the fragrance. It was unexpected that such a reduction of these ingredients created an effective composition because lowering the emulsifier concentration may not result in a system that demonstrates long term stability at room temperature.

This formulation contained 9.0 allantoin 61.78 water 2.7 cetyl alcohol 1.2 stearyl alcohol 2.75 beeswax 0.12 citric acid 10.6 lanolin oil 5.7 propylene glycol 0.15 tetrasodium EDTA 2 cod liver oil 0.5 butylated hydroxytoluene 0.3 methylparaben 0.25 propylparaben 0.2 fragrance and 2.75 sodium lauryl sulfate in a 30 solution. The pH of this formulation is 4.07.

This formulation contained 9.0 allantoin water cetyl alcohol stearyl alcohol beeswax citric acid 10.6 lanolin oil 5.7 propylene glycol 0.15 tetrasodium EDTA 2 cod liver oil 0.5 butylated hydroxytoluene 0.3 methylparaben 0.25 propylparaben and sodium lauryl sulfate in a 30 solution. It is desirous to reduce irritants due to the indications of these inflammatory skin conditions thus we reduced the amounts of beeswax and sodium lauryl sulfate and removed the fragrance. It was unexpected that such a reduction of these ingredients created an effective composition because lowering the emulsifier concentration may not result in a system that demonstrates long term stability at room temperature.

This formulation contained 9 allantoin 63.71 water 2.5 cetyl alcohol 1.2 stearyl alcohol 2.0 beeswax 0.09 citric acid 10.6 lanolin oil 5.7 propylene glycol 0.15 tetrasodium EDTA 2 cod liver oil 0.5 butylated hydroxytoluene 0.3 methylparaben 0.25 propylparaben and 2.0 sodium lauryl sulfate in a 30 solution. It is desirous to reduce irritants due to the indications of these inflammatory skin conditions thus we reduced the amounts of beeswax and sodium lauryl sulfate and removed the fragrance. It was unexpected that such a reduction of these ingredients created an effective composition because lowering the emulsifier concentration may not result in a system that demonstrates long term stability at room temperature.

The formulations A.S. 1 139E A.S. 1 81B A.S. 1 135C A.S. 1 1350 and A.S. 1 81G were tested on a minimum of triplicate sections from three different cadaver skin donors and three different porcine skin donors for the percutaneous absorption of allantoin over a 48 hour dose period. The intent of this study was to mimic the absorption of allantoin directly into the capillary bed while the dermis only study attempted to mimic the loss of skin barrier function due to broken skin or blisters. In addition each formulation was tested in at least triplicate membrane chambers. At preselected times after dosing the dermal receptor solution was removed in its entirety replaced with fresh receptor solution and an aliquot saved for subsequent analysis. The samples were analyzed for the allantoin using high performance liquid chromatography with UV and MS detection HPLC UV MS . The summary results are presented in and . The bottom table of lists a remanufacture of the 9 allantoin cream A.S. 1 153H to achieve a better viscosity of the final product. That table demonstrates that the initial results with A.S. 1 81G were lower than expected and unreliable due to problems in the manufacture of this lot. The remanufacture of the new A.S. 1 153H 9 lot demonstrated no viscosity issues and was retested in the full thickness skin model only demonstrating that the penetration of allantoin with this concentration was two times that of the 6 formulation A.S. 1 135G . It can also be inferred based on this result that the 9 cream results in the top table of may be higher than reported with A.S. 1 81G and dose related to the other formulation concentrations in all percutaneous models.

Conclusions Analysis of the mass delivered through the porous membrane over 24 hours showed that 9 6 3 1.5 0.5 p

Statistical analysis of the mass delivered through dermis only human cadaver skin showed that 9 6 3 1.5 0.5 p

Blood and urine collection and analysis for the presence of allantoin demonstrated no increase in basal levels of allantoin in either the blood or urine from EB patients treated with 1.5 allantoin daily for a period greater than 1 year. In addition data derived from various skin penetration models dermis and full thickness cadaver skin abraded porcine skin and membrane demonstrated a dose related increase in allantoin concentrations across various skin models which was clearly unexpected due to lack of penetration enhancers in the formulation. Specifically allantoin levels increased from 1.5 to 3 across the dermis in the 3 6 and 9 formulations 2.5 to 7 across the full thickness skin and 2 4 across the membrane as compared to a 1.5 formulation. Additionally it was unexpected that the allantoin formulations result in penetration of allantoin across the skin membrane without any increase in systemic blood levels.

The results of the penetration studies with the various concentration of the active ingredient allantoin was clearly unexpected given the robustness of the protection of the skin from penetration of topical products. This formulation was able to deliver allantoin across all skin models in a dose related manner over a sustained period of time. The inability of deliver of active ingredients across the intact skin and dermal barriers is the reason why topical products typically only work on superficial skin diseases.

In vitro tests confirm the protein dispersing activity of allantoin as measured by the concentration of reactive sulphydryl groups released from the protein of skin samples. Keratolytic activity on psoriatic scales was demonstrated in vitro by incubation with concentrations as low as 0.2 allantoin solution. Fisher A 1981 Cajkovac et al 1992 . Keratolysis is a process whereby horny cells are dispersed with a release of non keratinous material such as free amino acids and acid mucopolysaccharides which contributes to the horny layer associated with psoriasis Flesch 1958 . Other studies have further demonstrated the ability of allantoin to remove or reduce calluses and other forms of hyperkeratization by dissolving the cement holding the cornified cells together or loosening of the desmosomes as lower concentrations 

The results of the 3 study demonstrate the ability of allantoin to effectively close wounds and lesions and significantly lower than body surface area coverage of lesions and wounds in patients with this indication. Two patients in this study had previously used the 1.5 formulation for an extended period of time and noted that while the 1.5 formulation was effective application of the 3 cream was more effective in closure of wounds and the healing time was faster. These results are consistent with the findings from the percutaneous skin studies in that allantoin can be delivered to the active site more effectively at higher cream concentrations resulting in improved efficacy.

Eight patients 6 months to 4 years of age were enrolled an open study with a 3 month treatment period involving daily administration of 3 allantoin cream to all areas of the body containing blisters skin erosions and open wounds 3 patients with EB Simplex 3 patients with Junctional EB 2 patients with Recessive Dystrophic EB. All patients had between 25 75 of body surface area affected by the disease.

Measurements The key measurements were based on a change in disease condition from baseline screening evaluations 1 the change from baseline in size of an index lesion wound measured by area cm squared 2 the change from baseline in affected body surface area BSA including head upper limbs lower limbs and trunk physicians global assessment of improvement from baseline measured on a 6 point scale Clear Excellent Marked Good None Worsening .

Results The findings of the study indicated that there were clinically significant improvements in BSA and Index lesion scores compared with baseline. Following 3 months of treatment there was a 55 reduction in BSA ratings from baseline and in most patients one or more index lesions were totally healed cleared. The Physicians Global Assessment of Improvement indicated that all patients improved from baseline with some patients showing as much as a 75 improvement. In addition the cream appeared to prevent the recurrence of newly formed blisters and erosions.

Conclusions The findings of the study indicated that a 3 concentration of allantoin in a cream formulation induces a clinically significant change in the severity of the disease including wound closures and an overall reduction of body blisters and skin erosions. A number of these patients had been exposed previously to a 1.5 concentration of allantoin cream which was felt to be less efficacious. The current formulation promotes the penetration of allantoin across the skin barrier thereby increasing effectiveness in a dose related manner. Based on the dose related effects seen with this formulation it is likely that higher concentrations may confer even better efficacy.

Although the present invention has been described in considerable detail with reference to certain preferred embodiments thereof other versions are possible. Accordingly the present embodiments are to be considered as illustrative and not restrictive. Therefore the spirit and scope of the appended claims should not be limited to the description and the preferred versions contained within this specification.

