---

title: Exchanging a contact profile between client devices during a communication session
abstract: In an embodiment, a client device (CD) maintains a contact profile for a user of the CD, the contact profile including a universal identifier (UID) for the user and a list of devices and addresses at which the user of the CD can be contacted. The CD establishes a communication session with a remote CD (RCD) via a given contact address from the set of contact addresses for the RCD. The CD shares, in response to the communication session establishment, at least a portion of the contact profile to the RCD. The RCD generates and/or updates a given contact profile for the user of the CD that is maintained on the RCD based on the shared contact profile. The RCD can also share its profile with the CD in response to the communication session establishment, causing the CD to generate and/or update a contact profile for the RCD.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09497287&OS=09497287&RS=09497287
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 09497287
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150821
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 794 511 entitled Exchanging a Contact Profile Between Client Devices During a Communication Session filed Mar. 11 2013 the entire contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.

Embodiments of the invention relate to sharing a contact profile between client devices during a communication session.

Wireless communication systems have developed through various generations including a first generation analog wireless phone service 1G a second generation 2G digital wireless phone service including interim 2.5G and 2.75G networks and a third generation 3G high speed data Internet capable wireless service. There are presently many different types of wireless communication systems in use including Cellular and Personal Communications Service PCS systems. Examples of known cellular systems include the cellular Analog Advanced Mobile Phone System AMPS and digital cellular systems based on Code Division Multiple Access CDMA Frequency Division Multiple Access FDMA Time Division Multiple Access TDMA the Global System for Mobile access GSM variation of TDMA and newer hybrid digital communication systems using both TDMA and CDMA technologies.

It is typical for client devices e.g. mobile devices such as cell phones that use the above noted communication systems or other types of access networks e.g. WiFi etc. to maintain a set of contact profiles in a contact book. Each contact profile can be associated with a particular contact e.g. a friend a family member etc. and each contact profile can include a variety of contact addresses that use different contact mechanisms for reaching the particular contact. For example a given contact profile can include for a single contact a cellular phone number a home phone number an email VoIP IDs e.g. a Skype ID a Google Voice ID an IMS ID for presence and VoIP calls using IMS servers and so on. However these contact profiles generally require manual effort to be generated and maintained e.g. the user must physically input each contact address into the contact profile for a particular contact . Also while a client device may permit a contact address of a contact to be appended to an existing contact profile after the client device communicates with the contact over that contact address it can be difficult to add new contact addresses to contact profiles if those contact addresses have not yet actually interfaced with the client device.

In an embodiment a client device CD maintains a contact profile for a user of the CD the contact profile including a universal identifier UID for the user and a list of devices and addresses at which the user of the CD can be contacted. The CD establishes a communication session with a remote CD RCD via a given contact address from the set of contact addresses for the RCD. The CD shares in response to the communication session establishment at least a portion of the contact profile to the RCD. The RCD generates and or updates a given contact profile for the user of the CD that is maintained on the RCD based on the shared contact profile. The RCD can also share its profile with the CD in response to the communication session establishment causing the CD to generate and or update a contact profile for the RCD.

Aspects of the invention are disclosed in the following description and related drawings directed to specific embodiments of the invention. Alternate embodiments may be devised without departing from the scope of the invention. Additionally well known elements of the invention will not be described in detail or will be omitted so as not to obscure the relevant details of the invention.

The words exemplary and or example are used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any embodiment described herein as exemplary and or example is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other embodiments. Likewise the term embodiments of the invention does not require that all embodiments of the invention include the discussed feature advantage or mode of operation.

Further many embodiments are described in terms of sequences of actions to be performed by for example elements of a computing device. It will be recognized that various actions described herein can be performed by specific circuits e.g. application specific integrated circuits ASICs by program instructions being executed by one or more processors or by a combination of both. Additionally these sequence of actions described herein can be considered to be embodied entirely within any form of computer readable storage medium having stored therein a corresponding set of computer instructions that upon execution would cause an associated processor to perform the functionality described herein. Thus the various aspects of the invention may be embodied in a number of different forms all of which have been contemplated to be within the scope of the claimed subject matter. In addition for each of the embodiments described herein the corresponding form of any such embodiments may be described herein as for example logic configured to perform the described action.

A client device referred to herein as a user equipment UE may be mobile or stationary and may communicate with a radio access network RAN . As used herein the term UE may be referred to interchangeably as an access terminal or AT a wireless device a subscriber device a subscriber terminal a subscriber station a user terminal or UT a mobile terminal a mobile station and variations thereof. Generally UEs can communicate with a core network via the RAN and through the core network the UEs can be connected with external networks such as the Internet. Of course other mechanisms of connecting to the core network and or the Internet are also possible for the UEs such as over wired access networks WiFi networks e.g. based on IEEE 802.11 etc. and so on. UEs can be embodied by any of a number of types of devices including but not limited to PC cards compact flash devices external or internal modems wireless or wireline phones and so on. A communication link through which UEs can send signals to the RAN is called an uplink channel e.g. a reverse traffic channel a reverse control channel an access channel etc. . A communication link through which the RAN can send signals to UEs is called a downlink or forward link channel e.g. a paging channel a control channel a broadcast channel a forward traffic channel etc. . As used herein the term traffic channel TCH can refer to either an uplink reverse or downlink forward traffic channel.

Referring to UEs . . . N are configured to communicate with an access network e.g. the RAN an access point etc. over a physical communications interface or layer shown in as air interfaces and or a direct wired connection. The air interfaces and can comply with a given cellular communications protocol e.g. CDMA EVDO eHRPD GSM EDGE W CDMA LTE etc. while the air interface can comply with a wireless IP protocol e.g. IEEE 802.11 . The RAN includes a plurality of access points that serve UEs over air interfaces such as the air interfaces and . The access points in the RAN can be referred to as access nodes or ANs access points or APs base stations or BSs Node Bs eNode Bs and so on. These access points can be terrestrial access points or ground stations or satellite access points. The RAN is configured to connect to a core network that can perform a variety of functions including bridging circuit switched CS calls between UEs served by the RAN and other UEs served by the RAN or a different RAN altogether and can also mediate an exchange of packet switched PS data with external networks such as Internet . The Internet includes a number of routing agents and processing agents not shown in for the sake of convenience . In UE N is shown as connecting to the Internet directly i.e. separate from the core network such as over an Ethernet connection of WiFi or 802.11 based network . The Internet can thereby function to bridge packet switched data communications between UE N and UEs . . . N via the core network . Also shown in is the access point that is separate from the RAN . The access point may be connected to the Internet independent of the core network e.g. via an optical communication system such as FiOS a cable modem etc. . The air interface may serve UE or UE over a local wireless connection such as IEEE 802.11 in an example. UE N is shown as a desktop computer with a wired connection to the Internet such as a direct connection to a modem or router which can correspond to the access point itself in an example e.g. for a WiFi router with both wired and wireless connectivity .

Referring to a server is shown as connected to the Internet the core network or both. The server can be implemented as a plurality of structurally separate servers or alternately may correspond to a single server. As will be described below in more detail the server is configured to support one or more communication services e.g. Voice over Internet Protocol VoIP sessions Push to Talk PTT sessions group communication sessions social networking services etc. for UEs that can connect to the server via the core network and or the Internet and or to provide content e.g. web page downloads to the UEs.

While internal components of UEs such as the UEs A and B can be embodied with different hardware configurations a basic high level UE configuration for internal hardware components is shown as platform in . The platform can receive and execute software applications data and or commands transmitted from the RAN that may ultimately come from the core network the Internet and or other remote servers and networks e.g. application server web URLs etc. . The platform can also independently execute locally stored applications without RAN interaction. The platform can include a transceiver operably coupled to an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other processor microprocessor logic circuit or other data processing device. The ASIC or other processor executes the application programming interface API layer that interfaces with any resident programs in the memory of the wireless device. The memory can be comprised of read only or random access memory RAM and ROM EEPROM flash cards or any memory common to computer platforms. The platform also can include a local database that can store applications not actively used in memory as well as other data. The local database is typically a flash memory cell but can be any secondary storage device as known in the art such as magnetic media EEPROM optical media tape soft or hard disk or the like.

Accordingly an embodiment of the invention can include a UE e.g. UE A B etc. including the ability to perform the functions described herein. As will be appreciated by those skilled in the art the various logic elements can be embodied in discrete elements software modules executed on a processor or any combination of software and hardware to achieve the functionality disclosed herein. For example ASIC memory API and local database may all be used cooperatively to load store and execute the various functions disclosed herein and thus the logic to perform these functions may be distributed over various elements. Alternatively the functionality could be incorporated into one discrete component. Therefore the features of the UEs A and B in are to be considered merely illustrative and the invention is not limited to the illustrated features or arrangement.

The wireless communication between the UEs A and or B and the RAN can be based on different technologies such as CDMA W CDMA time division multiple access TDMA frequency division multiple access FDMA Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplexing OFDM GSM or other protocols that may be used in a wireless communications network or a data communications network. As discussed in the foregoing and known in the art voice transmission and or data can be transmitted to the UEs from the RAN using a variety of networks and configurations. Accordingly the illustrations provided herein are not intended to limit the embodiments of the invention and are merely to aid in the description of aspects of embodiments of the invention.

Referring to the communication device includes logic configured to receive and or transmit information . In an example if the communication device corresponds to a wireless communications device e.g. UE A or B AP a BS Node B or eNodeB in the RAN etc. the logic configured to receive and or transmit information can include a wireless communications interface e.g. Bluetooth WiFi 2G CDMA W CDMA 3G 4G LTE etc. such as a wireless transceiver and associated hardware e.g. an RF antenna a MODEM a modulator and or demodulator etc. . In another example the logic configured to receive and or transmit information can correspond to a wired communications interface e.g. a serial connection a USB or Firewire connection an Ethernet connection through which the Internet can be accessed etc. . Thus if the communication device corresponds to some type of network based server e.g. server etc. the logic configured to receive and or transmit information can correspond to an Ethernet card in an example that connects the network based server to other communication entities via an Ethernet protocol. In a further example the logic configured to receive and or transmit information can include sensory or measurement hardware by which the communication device can monitor its local environment e.g. an accelerometer a temperature sensor a light sensor an antenna for monitoring local RF signals etc. . The logic configured to receive and or transmit information can also include software that when executed permits the associated hardware of the logic configured to receive and or transmit information to perform its reception and or transmission function s . However the logic configured to receive and or transmit information does not correspond to software alone and the logic configured to receive and or transmit information relies at least in part upon hardware to achieve its functionality.

Referring to the communication device further includes logic configured to process information . In an example the logic configured to process information can include at least a processor. Example implementations of the type of processing that can be performed by the logic configured to process information includes but is not limited to performing determinations establishing connections making selections between different information options performing evaluations related to data interacting with sensors coupled to the communication device to perform measurement operations converting information from one format to another e.g. between different protocols such as .wmv to .avi etc. and so on. For example the processor included in the logic configured to process information can correspond to a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor may be any conventional processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration. The logic configured to process information can also include software that when executed permits the associated hardware of the logic configured to process information to perform its processing function s . However the logic configured to process information does not correspond to software alone and the logic configured to process information relies at least in part upon hardware to achieve its functionality.

Referring to the communication device further includes logic configured to store information . In an example the logic configured to store information can include at least a non transitory memory and associated hardware e.g. a memory controller etc. . For example the non transitory memory included in the logic configured to store information can correspond to RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art. The logic configured to store information can also include software that when executed permits the associated hardware of the logic configured to store information to perform its storage function s . However the logic configured to store information does not correspond to software alone and the logic configured to store information relies at least in part upon hardware to achieve its functionality.

Referring to the communication device further optionally includes logic configured to present information . In an example the logic configured to present information can include at least an output device and associated hardware. For example the output device can include a video output device e.g. a display screen a port that can carry video information such as USB HDMI etc. an audio output device e.g. speakers a port that can carry audio information such as a microphone jack USB HDMI etc. a vibration device and or any other device by which information can be formatted for output or actually outputted by a user or operator of the communication device . For example if the communication device corresponds to UE A or UE B as shown in the logic configured to present information can include the display A of UE A or the touchscreen display B of UE B. In a further example the logic configured to present information can be omitted for certain communication devices such as network communication devices that do not have a local user e.g. network switches or routers remote servers such as the server etc. . The logic configured to present information can also include software that when executed permits the associated hardware of the logic configured to present information to perform its presentation function s . However the logic configured to present information does not correspond to software alone and the logic configured to present information relies at least in part upon hardware to achieve its functionality.

Referring to the communication device further optionally includes logic configured to receive local user input . In an example the logic configured to receive local user input can include at least a user input device and associated hardware. For example the user input device can include buttons a touchscreen display a keyboard a camera an audio input device e.g. a microphone or a port that can carry audio information such as a microphone jack etc. and or any other device by which information can be received from a user or operator of the communication device . For example if the communication device corresponds to UE A or UE B as shown in the logic configured to receive local user input can include the keypad A any of the buttons A or B through B the touchscreen display B etc. In a further example the logic configured to receive local user input can be omitted for certain communication devices such as network communication devices that do not have a local user e.g. network switches or routers remote servers such as the server etc. . The logic configured to receive local user input can also include software that when executed permits the associated hardware of the logic configured to receive local user input to perform its input reception function s . However the logic configured to receive local user input does not correspond to software alone and the logic configured to receive local user input relies at least in part upon hardware to achieve its functionality.

Referring to while the configured logics of through are shown as separate or distinct blocks in it will be appreciated that the hardware and or software by which the respective configured logic performs its functionality can overlap in part. For example any software used to facilitate the functionality of the configured logics of through can be stored in the non transitory memory associated with the logic configured to store information such that the configured logics of through each performs their functionality i.e. in this case software execution based in part upon the operation of software stored by the logic configured to store information . Likewise hardware that is directly associated with one of the configured logics can be borrowed or used by other configured logics from time to time. For example the processor of the logic configured to process information can format data into an appropriate format before being transmitted by the logic configured to receive and or transmit information such that the logic configured to receive and or transmit information performs its functionality i.e. in this case transmission of data based in part upon the operation of hardware i.e. the processor associated with the logic configured to process information .

Generally unless stated otherwise explicitly the phrase logic configured to as used throughout this disclosure is intended to invoke an embodiment that is at least partially implemented with hardware and is not intended to map to software only implementations that are independent of hardware. Also it will be appreciated that the configured logic or logic configured to in the various blocks are not limited to specific logic gates or elements but generally refer to the ability to perform the functionality described herein either via hardware or a combination of hardware and software . Thus the configured logics or logic configured to as illustrated in the various blocks are not necessarily implemented as logic gates or logic elements despite sharing the word logic. Other interactions or cooperation between the logic in the various blocks will become clear to one of ordinary skill in the art from a review of the embodiments described below in more detail.

Referring to a first client device client device for user obtains a first contact address contact address that is associated with a first communication service for user . For example contact address can correspond to a cellular telephone number for a cellular telephone service. Generally contact address will correspond to any contact address that is unlikely to change over time so that contact address can be used as a universal identifier UID for the associated contact profile which can include multiple contact addresses across different client devices or the same client device.

After obtaining contact address for client device client device registers e.g. via an API for interacting with the contact profile manager that executes on client device with the contact profile manager contact address for client device as a UID for user s contact profile . The contact profile manager then generates the contact profile for user with contact address as the UID as shown in Table 1 below 

In Table 1 above contact address on client device corresponds to a cellular phone number of 1 333 444 5555 a device ID or type for client device is a cellular telephone a device location descriptor is mobile a presence status for contact address on client device is set to online which implies that user is expected to currently be reachable via contact address on client device . For certain contact mechanisms e.g. circuit switched voice calls to from cellular telephones an associated client device s online status is known at the network but not to other client devices. Thus these other client devices will typically presume the associated client device to be online e.g. unlike a contact mechanism such as Skype where users log into a Skype server to register their online presence . In the example of circuit switched voice calling contact mechanism with online presumption the online presumption is typically rebutted only when a call is made to a target client device and that target client device is unavailable e.g. the caller is routed to a voicemail service for the called party . Thus the presence status being online in Table 1 and in the Tables described below can correspond to either a presumptive online status or an actual online status e.g. based on presence real time information . Also available contact mechanisms or communication services for contact address include SMS voice calls and video calls with SMS being the preferred contact mechanism for user over contact address on client device e.g. as will be described below in more detail the contact mechanism preference can be set by the service provider or carrier by user etc. .

At some later point in time a second client device client device for user obtains a second contact address contact address that is associated with a second communication service for user . For example contact address can correspond to a Skype ID for a Skype VoIP service etc. After obtaining contact address for client device client device registers e.g. via an API for interacting with the contact profile manager that executes on client device with the contact profile manager contact address for client device using the UID for user s contact profile . Thus the contact profile manager is capable of associating user s contact profile with the new registration for contact address on client device based on the UID. The contact profile manager then updates the contact profile for user with contact address as shown in Table 2 below 

In Table 2 above contact address on client device corresponds to a SkypeID of JohnDoe1890 a device ID or type for client device is a tablet computer a device location descriptor is home a presence status for contact address on client device is set to online which implies that user is expected to currently be reachable via contact address on client device . Also available contact mechanisms or communication services for contact address include VoIP calls or video calls with voice calls being the preferred contact mechanism for user over contact address on client device e.g. as will be described below in more detail the contact mechanism preference can be set by the service provider or carrier by user etc. .

At some later point in time a third client device client device for user obtains contact address which is associated with the same second communication service for user as contact address on client device . For example contact address can correspond to a Skype ID for a Skype VoIP service and client devices and can each install a Skype client application to which user has logged on. After obtaining contact address for client device client device registers e.g. via an API for interacting with the contact profile manager that executes on client device with the contact profile manager contact address for client device using the UID for user s contact profile . Thus the contact profile manager is capable of associating user s contact profile with the new registration for contact address on client device based on the UID. The contact profile manager then updates the contact profile for user with contact address on client device as shown in Table 3 below 

In Table 3 above contact address on client device corresponds to the SkypeID of JohnDoe1890 similar to contact address on client device . However unlike contact address on client device contact address on client device has a device ID or type that corresponds to a desktop computer a device location descriptor is work a presence status for contact address on client device is set to online which implies that user is expected to currently be reachable via contact address on client device . Also available contact mechanisms or communication services for contact address on client device include VoIP calls or video calls with video calls being the preferred contact mechanism for user over contact address on client device e.g. as will be described below in more detail the contact mechanism preference can be set by the service provider or carrier by user etc. .

At some later point in time client device for user obtains a third contact address contact address associated with a third communication service for user . For example contact address can correspond to a Facebook ID for a Facebook chat service and client device can install a Facebook client application to which user has logged on. After obtaining contact address for client device client device registers e.g. via the API for interacting with the contact profile manager that executes on client device with the contact profile manager contact address for client device using the UID for user s contact profile . Thus the contact profile manager is capable of associating user s contact profile with the new registration for contact address on client device based on the UID. The contact profile manager then updates the contact profile for user with contact address on client device as shown in Table 4 below 

In Table 4 above the device ID and device location descriptor for client device do not change i.e. cellular telephone and mobile contact address on client device corresponds to the Facebook ID of John X. Doe the presence is online and the only available contact mechanism and thereby the preferred contact mechanism for contact address on client device is Facebook chat.

Referring to the contact profile manager can periodically update the priorities of contact addresses client devices or both . For example contact address on client device may have a higher priority than contact address on client device e.g. a user wants to be called via his her home device even if that user is working at home with a separate work device . In another example user may want to limit his her data usage on client device e.g. due to an expensive cellular data plan and may thereby prefer to be contacted on any other client device with an online presence indicator before a contact attempt is made at client device over any contact address . Also the contact profile manager can periodically sync user s contact profile across user s various client devices . As will be described below in more detail the contact profile syncing of can help to ensure that each client device is up to date with respect to user s list of contact addresses client devices presence information etc. and this information can be shared with other entities over a client to client or peer to peer exchange during a communication session over any of user s contact addresses.

Referring to the prioritization of the contact addresses at can be configured in a number of different ways. For example the priorities of one or more of the contact addresses in user s contact profile can be based on service provider or carrier preference. For example if the service provider has agreements with Skype to prioritize calls over Skype when available Skype IDs in user s contact profile can be allocated a higher priority as compared to other contact mechanisms e.g. Google Talk voice dialing etc. . In another example geographic location can be used to determine the priorities for one or more of the contact address. For example in dense urban areas with seamless Wi Fi availability VoIP applications may be allocated higher priority and in other areas circuit switched voice may have higher priority. Thus the geographic locations of certain client devices in user s contact profile can affect the priority of particular contact addresses registered to those particular client devices. Also depending on regional contracts and advertisement revenues the service provider may set priorities based on geographic location as well. In another example the priorities of one or more of the contact addresses in user s contact profile can be based upon user preferences specific to user . In yet another example one or more of the contact addresses in user s contact profile may be allocated priorities that are specific to particular targets or groups of contacts . For example a higher priority can be allocated to circuit switched voice calls for important work customers despite the higher expense of circuit switched voice calls whereas higher priority can be allocated to cheaper VoIP calls for certain family members etc.

While relates to an aggregation of contact information for a particular user within a contact profile illustrates a process of aggregation message information for different communication services in accordance with an embodiment of the invention. is described with respect to a voicemail message manager that collects and aggregates messages and or voicemails for a variety of communication services e.g. VoIP Facebook Skype circuit switched voice calls SMS etc. associated with user . Similar to the contact profile manager of the voicemail message manager is an application that can reside either on one of user s client devices or alternatively at a server e.g. such as server from .

Referring to the voicemail message manager obtains three 3 voicemails for contact address e.g. via phone call attempts to client device two 2 voicemails for contact address e.g. via Skype in conjunction with attempts to call user s SkypeID on client device or client device two 2 text or SMS messages for contact address and four 4 text messages for contact address e.g. Facebook chat messages sent to user s Facebook account . The voicemails and or messages collected by the voicemail message manager between through can either be directed to specific client devices or can be client device independent. The voicemail message manager aggregates the voicemails and or the messages collected between through . The aggregation of can be aligned by message type e.g. aggregate all text related messages into one aggregation group aggregate all voice related messages into another aggregation group by client device e.g. aggregate all messages of any type for each particular client device separately by group of people e.g. aggregate all messages from work contacts separately aggregated all messages from family contacts separately aggregate all messages from friend contacts separately etc. by time e.g. aggregate all messages received in a certain block of time such as during work hours or on a particular day etc. by content e.g. aggregate work related message separately from personal messages whereby the work related or personal message characterizations can be based either on when the messages were received the content of the messages and or the sender of the messages or the aggregation of can aggregate all the collected voicemails and or messages without any filtering rules. At client device retrieves the aggregated voicemails and or messages from the voicemail message manager and client device presents the aggregated voicemails and or messages for the various contact addresses and or client devices of user via a unified interface . As will be appreciated if the voicemail message manager resides on client device instead of on another of user s client devices or a server the retrieval operation of can be performed at the client device as a local operation.

To help explain the type of voicemail and or message aggregation that can occur during illustrates an example of conventional voicemail and or message notifications on a home screen of a conventional client device and illustrates an example of aggregated voicemail and or message notifications on a home screen of a client device in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention.

In the client device has icons representing a Skype service A a cellular phone service A a cellular SMS or text service A and a Facebook chat service A. In association with each icon is a number that notifies a user of the client device with regard to how many messages are available for each associated service. Thus in the user has three 3 Skype voicemails two 2 cellular phone voicemails two 2 SMS messages and four 4 Facebook chat messages.

In an example is provided where the respective messages from are aggregated using the process of based on their respective message types e.g. text or voice . Thus an icon B shows an aggregated set of five 5 voicemails which consist of the 3 Skype voicemails and 2 cellular phone voicemails from . Also an icon B shows an aggregated set of six 6 text messages which consist of the 2 SMS messages and 4 Facebook chat messages from . As will be appreciated aggregating voicemails and or text messages across different services can simplify voicemail and or text message management for users that use different services on a single client device.

At and users and are optionally prompted by the respective client devices to ascertain whether users and wish to share their respective contact profiles including at least a portion of the contact address and or client device information which is unassociated with their current communication session. The prompts of and can be relatively simple e.g. SHARE PROFILE YES NO or can be more sophisticated so as to permit users and to share only certain parts of their respective contact profiles e.g. SHARE ENTIRE PROFILE SHARE WORK CONTACT INFORMATION FROM PROFILE SHARE FRIENDS AND FAMILY CONTACT INFORMATION the respective users can be prompted to browse their respective contact profiles and manually select which contact information to share etc. . and are described as optional because in at least one embodiment the contact profile sharing can occur automatically or passively so that users and are not explicitly asked for permission before at least a portion of their contact information is passed to the other user.

If user indicates that he she wants to share at least a portion of user s contact profile with user in response to the prompt of or based on an automatic determination of user s client device based on preconfigured privacy rules configured by user or other contact profile sharing criteria at user s client device sends the portion of user s contact profile to user s client device and user s client device generates or updates a contact profile for user . Thus and are conditional operations that occur based on whether user s client device determines to share user s contact profile with user . Further the contact profile update that occurs at can be with respect to a contact book maintained by the operating system OS of user s client device or alternatively a contact book maintained by a third party program or client application configured for execution at a higher layer than the OS on user s client device. Otherwise if user indicates that he she does not want to share at least a portion of user s contact profile with user in response to the prompt of or based on an automatic determination of user s client device based on preconfigured privacy rules configured by user or other contact profile sharing criteria at the process advances to without user s client device sharing his her contact profile with user .

Likewise if user indicates that he she wants to share at least a portion of user s contact profile with user in response to the prompt of or based on an automatic determination of user s client device based on preconfigured privacy rules configured by user or other contact profile sharing criteria at user s client device sends the portion of user s contact profile to user s client device and user s client device generates or updates a contact profile for user . Thus and are conditional operations that occur based on whether user s client device determines to share user s contact profile with user . Similar to the contact profile update that occurs at can be with respect to a contact book maintained by the OS of user s client device or alternatively a contact book maintained by a third party program or client application configured for execution at a higher layer than the OS on user s client device. Otherwise if user indicates that he she does not want to share at least a portion of user s contact profile with user in response to the prompt of or based on an automatic determination of user s client device based on preconfigured privacy rules configured by user or other contact profile sharing criteria at the process advances to without user s client device sharing his her contact profile with user .

It will be appreciated that contact profile sharing operations of and can occur in conjunction with each other or alternatively that only one or none of the respective client devices may determine to share contact profile information. It will be appreciated that the respective contact profile sharing procedures and can be performed concurrently e.g. a mutual profile exchange procedure or in sequential order e.g. client device shares user s profile first or vice versa in other embodiments of the invention.

During the contact profile sharing procedures of and or the respective client devices can be concurrently engaged in an exchange of media for the communication session that triggered the contact profile sharing procedure . In an example the exchange of the contact profiles at and or can correspond to an in call information exchange that is piggybacked onto the media being exchanged at . Alternatively it is possible that the contact profile exchange s at and or is triggered by the establishment of the communication session while being carried over a channel that is independent of the communication session e.g. the communication session can be a circuit switched voice call whereas the respective contact profiles are separately exchanged via email text message FTP etc. .

While not shown explicitly in one or more of the contact addresses shared between the client devices at and or can be masked so that any masked contact address can be used to initiate communication sessions by the client device receiving the contact profile but while hiding the masked contact address at least partially from being recognizable to the target user operating that client device. This aspect is described in more detail below with respect to of from could also be implemented in conjunction with the contact profile transmissions of and or .

While is directed to a client to client or peer to peer contact profile exchange procedure is directed to a server arbitrated contact profile delivery procedure in accordance with an embodiment of the invention. In the embodiment of assume that the contact profile manager is implemented at a server such as server from . At a client device associated with user sends a request for at least a portion of user s contact profile to the contact profile manager. At a minimum the request of includes the UID for user s contact profile e.g. user s cellular phone number . Thus in an embodiment user s contact profile and any of its associated contact addresses can be looked up by another user via the UID for the contact profile e.g. user only needs to remember user s cellular phone number to look up user s other contact addresses via the contact profile manager on the server . The server evaluates the request from user to determine if user is permitted to receive any portion of user s contact profile . If not the request is rejected outright . Otherwise the server determines which contact addresses from user s contact profile to share with user s client device based on the request from and or privacy settings associated with user s contact profile.

Referring to in an example the request from may be received at the server in conjunction with a token that indicates the contact profile privileges user wishes to allocate to user . The token can be passed to user s client device via an earlier text message or email from user s client device in an example. In another example even if user s client device has full access to user s contact profile the request from may not actually be requesting the entirety of user s contact profile. Rather the request from may be configured to simply refresh presence information for user s contact book entry in a contact book e.g. maintained by the associated or by a higher level client application on user s client device managed by user s client device or to query for new contact addresses with online presence e.g. so that user can figure out how best to reach user while not caring about currently offline contact addresses or for landline phone numbers only or for work related contact addresses and so on. Thus the request itself may function to limit the amount of the contact profile that is ultimately delivered to user s client device.

In yet another example user may configure certain contact addresses with various degrees of privacy. For example user may have a contact address that corresponds to a landline phone from which user makes phone calls but at which user does not want to receive any return phone calls. In this case user can ask the contact profile manager not to distribute this phone number to any other users. Alternatively user may designate that his her contact addresses are only to be shared with other users or groups of users that are already contacts in a contact book of user e.g. as a friend a family member a work colleague etc. . In another example user may designate that his her contact addresses are only to be shared with users in a same category of relationship with user e.g. work related contact addresses are shared with users that are work contacts of user and not with other user types friend and family related contact addresses are shared with users that are friend contacts and or family contacts of user and not with other user types and so on .

In another example in the case where the same contact address is associated with different client devices user can restrict some users by client device not just contact address . Thus if user has a habit of logging into his her Skype account on two different client devices user may want to receive Skype calls from a particular user on one client device but not the other e.g. one client device may be at home where the user does not want to receive Skype calls from his her work colleagues etc. .

After determining the contact addresses to be shared with user s client device at the contact profile manager can optionally mask one or more of these contact addresses from detection by user . More specifically the contact profile manager can mask or encrypt these contact addresses so that contact address software on user s client device can ascertain the contact address but the user him herself cannot. For example a cell phone number for user can be 1 333 444 5555 and this cell phone number can be masked to 1 XXX XXX XXXX. Thus when user s client device presents user s contact profile to user this contact address is presented as 1 XXX XXX XXXX. If user then selects this contact address to initiate a call with user s client device modem software on user s client device can be configured with de masking or mapping software that will map the masked cell phone number to user s actual cell phone number. Accordingly user s contact addresses can become device specific in the sense that they can be shared with user s client device and used by user s client device to call user but user cannot simply transfer this contact address to some other device for calling user . As will be appreciated the mask can be implemented at the server e.g. the server provides the masked contact address along with instructions for the modem software to translate the masked contact address into the actual contact address or at user s client device e.g. user s client device can simply be asked by the server to mask certain contact addresses and the modem software on user s client device can then implement its own masking scheme .

Referring to the contact profile manager sends user s contact profile to user s client device at and user s client device generates and or updates a contact profile for user in user s contact book . As will be appreciated the contact profile sent at can correspond to user s entire profile or designated portions of user s profile based on and the contact addresses can either be masked or unmasked based on .

Referring to user s client device receives user input associated with user s contact profile . For example the user input at can include user navigating to user s contact profile with a contact book of user on the client device. User s client device then presents one or more contact addresses from user s contact profile based on their respective priorities . For example user s client device can present all contact addresses from user s contact profile with an online presence at . In another example user s client device can present one or more of user s preferred contact addresses. In another example assume that one of user s contact addresses is a Skype ID where the contact profile of user has the Skype ID associated with more than one device e.g. a smart phone a tablet a PC a TV etc. . User may be logged on to Skype on each of these multiple devices. In this case Skype can create sub addresses that map to specific devices SkypeID.phone SkypeID.tablet SkypeID.PC etc. and these identities could be included in the contact profile. User can then select the target device he she wishes to talk to or presence information can be obtained so that user is aware of which device user is currently interacting with if any .

Referring to at user s client device receives a selection of at least one of user s contact addresses . For example user may select one particular contact address which can be used to contact user on multiple client devices user may select each of user s contact addresses associated with a particular device location descriptor e.g. home work etc. user may select a particular client device and all its associated contact addresses e.g. to reach a particular device and not other devices that could also theoretically be reached using one or more of the same contact addresses etc. user may select to reach a particular client device with one contact address for audio e.g. cell phone number and another contact address for video e.g. Skype etc. After receiving the selection of user s client device attempts to setup the communication session with one of user s client devices over the selected at least one contact address .

Further a number of the embodiments described above refer to contact profiles and or contact books that are maintained at least in part on client devices. It will be appreciated that these contact books can be maintained at least in part by the OS that is executing on the associated client device or by a higher layer third party client application that is executing on the associated client device or a combination thereof. Thus any type of contact book can be associated with the aforementioned procedures and not merely the contact book maintained by the same client application responsible for managing the communication sessions that use or trigger changes to the contact book. In context with this means that the contact book updates that occur at and does not necessarily need to be the contact book maintained by the same client application session that manages the communication session at or although this is possible . In context with this means that the contact book used to look up user s contact address es at does not need to be maintained by the same client application session that manages the communication session at although this is possible and so on.

Those of skill in the art will appreciate that information and signals may be represented using any of a variety of different technologies and techniques. For example data instructions commands information signals bits symbols and chips that may be referenced throughout the above description may be represented by voltages currents electromagnetic waves magnetic fields or particles optical fields or particles or any combination thereof.

Further those of skill in the art will appreciate that the various illustrative logical blocks modules circuits and algorithm steps described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented as electronic hardware computer software or combinations of both. To clearly illustrate this interchangeability of hardware and software various illustrative components blocks modules circuits and steps have been described above generally in terms of their functionality. Whether such functionality is implemented as hardware or software depends upon the particular application and design constraints imposed on the overall system. Skilled artisans may implement the described functionality in varying ways for each particular application but such implementation decisions should not be interpreted as causing a departure from the scope of the present invention.

The various illustrative logical blocks modules and circuits described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented or performed with a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor may be any conventional processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration.

The methods sequences and or algorithms described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. A software module may reside in RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art. An exemplary storage medium is coupled to the processor such that the processor can read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium may be integral to the processor. The processor and the storage medium may reside in an ASIC. The ASIC may reside in a user terminal e.g. UE . In the alternative the processor and the storage medium may reside as discrete components in a user terminal.

In one or more exemplary embodiments the functions described may be implemented in hardware software firmware or any combination thereof. If implemented in software the functions may be stored on or transmitted over as one or more instructions or code on a computer readable medium. Computer readable media includes both computer storage media and communication media including any medium that facilitates transfer of a computer program from one place to another. A storage media may be any available media that can be accessed by a computer. By way of example and not limitation such computer readable media can comprise RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that can be used to carry or store desired program code in the form of instructions or data structures and that can be accessed by a computer. Also any connection is properly termed a computer readable medium. For example if the software is transmitted from a website server or other remote source using a coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair digital subscriber line DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave then the coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave are included in the definition of medium. Disk and disc as used herein includes compact disc CD laser disc optical disc digital versatile disc DVD floppy disk and blu ray disc where disks usually reproduce data magnetically while discs reproduce data optically with lasers. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

While the foregoing disclosure shows illustrative embodiments of the invention it should be noted that various changes and modifications could be made herein without departing from the scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims. The functions steps and or actions of the method claims in accordance with the embodiments of the invention described herein need not be performed in any particular order. Furthermore although elements of the invention may be described or claimed in the singular the plural is contemplated unless limitation to the singular is explicitly stated.

