---

title: System and method for planning and monitoring multi-dose radiopharmaceutical usage on radiopharmaceutical injectors
abstract: A method for planning and monitoring radiopharmaceutical usage during a plurality of radiopharmaceutical injection procedures includes: providing a schedule of the plurality of radiopharmaceutical injection procedures to produce a planned patient schedule; based on the planned patient schedule, calculating a multi-dose container configuration for use during the plurality of radiopharmaceutical injection procedures; transferring the planned patient schedule to a radiopharmaceutical fluid delivery system; loading the multi-dose patient configuration into the radiopharmaceutical fluid delivery system; and conducting the plurality of radiopharmaceutical injection procedures based on the planned patient schedule.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09463335&OS=09463335&RS=09463335
owner: Bayer HealthCare LLC
number: 09463335
owner_city: Whippany
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150814
---
The present application is a Continuation of U.S. Ser. No. 13 700 266 having a 371 c date of Nov. 27 2012 which is a 371 national phase application of PCT International Application No. PCT US2011 039106 filed on Jun. 3 2011 and designating the United States of America which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 351 463 filed on Jun. 4 2010 the contents of each of which are incorporated herein by reference.

This disclosure relates to the administration of pharmaceutical substances typically intrinsically harmful or toxic pharmaceutical substances such as radioactive pharmaceutical substances generally known as radiopharmaceuticals to human and animal subjects and more specifically to a method of and a system for planning and monitoring multi dose radiopharmaceutical usage on radiopharmaceutical injectors.

Administration of radioactive pharmaceutical substances or drugs generally termed radiopharmaceuticals is often used in the medical field to provide information or imagery of internal body structures and or functions including but not limited to bone vasculature organs and organ systems and other tissue. Additionally such radiopharmaceuticals may be used as therapeutic agents to kill or inhibit the growth of targeted cells or tissue such as cancer cells.

Two types of imaging procedures utilizing radiopharmaceuticals are positron emission tomography PET or single photon emission computerized tomography SPECT procedures. PET and SPECT are noninvasive three dimensional imaging procedures that provide information regarding physiological and biochemical processes in patients. PET and SPECT images of for example the brain or another organ are produced by injecting the patient with a dose of a radiopharmaceutical and then creating an image based on the radiation emitted by the radiopharmaceutical. The radiopharmaceutical generally includes a radioactive substance such as a radioisotope that can be absorbed by certain cells in the brain or other organs concentrating it there.

Radioisotopes especially those with short half lives can be relatively safely administered to patients in the form of a labeled substrate ligand drug antibody neurotransmitter or other compound or molecule that is normally processed or used by the body for example glucose . The radioisotope acts as a tracer of specific physiological or biological processes. For example fluorodeoxyglucose FDG is a normal molecule of glucose the basic energy fuel of cells to which is attached a radioisotope or radioactive fluorine i.e. F . The F radioisotope is produced in a cyclotron equipped with a unit to synthesize the FDG molecule.

Cells for example in the brain that are more active in a given period of time after an injection of FDG will absorb more FDG because they have a higher metabolism and require more energy. The F radioisotope in the FDG molecule experiences a radioactive decay emitting a positron. When a positron collides with an electron annihilation occurs liberating a burst of energy in the form of two beams of gamma rays in opposite directions. The PET scanner detects the emitted gamma rays to compile a three dimensional image.

To allow for cell uptake of the radiopharmaceutical the patient typically rests for a period of time 45 90 minutes for FDG after the radiopharmaceutical is injected. After sufficient time for cell uptake has elapsed the patient is typically placed on a movable bed that slides into the PET or SPECT or other suitable scanner. The PET scanner includes several rings of radiation detectors. Each detector emits a brief pulse of light every time it is struck with a gamma ray coming from the radioisotope within the patient s body. The pulse of light is amplified by for example a photomultiplier and the information is sent to the computer for forming images of the patient.

To minimize the radiation dose to patients radiopharmaceuticals containing radioisotopes such as Flourine 18 Technetium 99 Carbon 11 Copper 64 Gallium 67 Iodine 123 Nitrogen 13 Oxygen 15 Rubidium 82 Thallium 201 Chromium 51 Iodine 131 Iodine 151 Iridium 192 Phosphorus 32 Samarium 153 and Yttrium 90 having relatively short half lives are typically used for PET and SPECT imaging procedures and other radio therapies. F for example has a half life of 109.7 minutes.

Because of its short half life the radioactivity level of the radioisotope will quickly decrease after it is manufactured in a cyclotron or a reactor. Consequently the elapsed time and corresponding decrease in radioactivity level of the radioisotope after synthesis of the radiopharmaceutical must be factored into calculating the volume of radiopharmaceutical required to be injected into the patient to deliver the desired radioactivity dose. If the time delay after synthesis is long in relation to the radioisotope s half life or if the calculated volume of radiopharmaceutical to be injected into the patient is insufficient to deliver the desired radioactivity dose the delivered radioactivity dose may be too low to provide diagnostic quality images resulting in wasted time and effort and exposing the patient and medical personnel to unnecessary radiation.

In addition radiopharmaceutical agents used in imaging procedures and therapeutic procedures are hazardous to attending medical personnel. These agents are toxic and can have physical and or chemical effects for attending medical personnel such as clinicians imaging technicians nurses and pharmacists. Excessive radiation exposure is harmful to attending medical personnel due to their occupational repeated exposure to the radiopharmaceuticals. However due to the short half life of typical radiopharmaceutical agents and small applied dosages the radiation exposure risk to benefit ratio for individual patients is acceptable. The constant and repeated exposure of medical personnel to radiopharmaceuticals over an extended period of time is a significant problem in the nuclear medicine field.

With the foregoing background in place exemplary current practice of generating preparing and administration of radiopharmaceuticals will now be described. Typical radiopharmaceutical treatment practice in the United States includes having the radiopharmaceutical agent initially generated off site from a treatment location typically a hospital by an outside nuclear medicine facility and then delivered to the treatment location for further preparation for example individual dosing and administration. The treatment location for example a hospital orders specific radioactive substances to be ready at specific times for specific patients. These substances are prepared by the outside nuclear medicine facility and with sufficient radioactivity that they will have the desired radioactivity level at the targeted time. For example the outside nuclear medicine provider may have a facility equipped with a cyclotron or radioisotope generator in for example a lead shielded enclosure wherein the radiopharmaceutical agent namely a radioactive isotope is generated or created. Further refining or dose preparation steps namely placing the radioisotope in injectable form may occur at the off treatment site. Thus the outside provider may provide a radiopharmaceutical substance to the treatment site having a desired radioactivity level at the targeted time. Further individual dose preparation of the radiopharmaceutical agent may occur at the treatment site. Alternatively the outside provider may provide a finished radiopharmaceutical agent ready for injection to a specified patient at a specified time so that treatment site personnel are only required to confirm that the correct radioactive dosage is present in the radiopharmaceutical agent for example in a stand alone radiation dosimetry device as described previously. During the forgoing process there is frequent close proximity contact with radioactive materials by personnel and as described previously handling and transport shielding devices are needed for the protection of these personnel.

Transport pigs are commonly employed to transport the radiopharmaceutical agents which are individual doses prepared for individual patients to the treatment facility. At the treatment facility data about each unit dose is entered into a facility computer either manually or through reading a bar code floppy disk or other similar data format which may accompany or be on the transport pig or the radiopharmaceutical agent container. When it is time to deliver a specified unit dose to a specified patient treatment facility personnel must remove for example a syringe containing the radiopharmaceutical agent from the transport pig and confirm that the dose in the syringe is within the range prescribed for that patient. Alternatively the attending personnel must transfer the radiopharmaceutical agent to a shielded syringe as identified previously and confirm dosage. If the dose is too high some is discarded into a shielded waste container. If the dose is too low either a different syringe is used and or additional agent is loaded into the syringe if available. While it is possible for the attending treatment site personnel to be involved with dosage preparation typical United States practice is to have the radiopharmaceutical agent delivered to the treatment site which will have the desired radioactivity level at the targeted time. Manual manipulation of the radiopharmaceutical agent at the treatment site is limited at the treatment site due to this procedure. Nonetheless various manual checks are required to confirm that a correct radiopharmaceutical dose is ready for injection into a specific patient. These manual checks include visual inspections and radioactivity measurements as noted above.

As an example of the foregoing in PET imaging an injectable radiopharmaceutical agent such as for instance FDG fluorodeoxyglucose is fabricated in a cyclotron device at an outside nuclear medicine facility. Thereafter the FDG is processed to be in a radiopharmaceutical form and is transferred in an individual dose container i.e. container bottle syringe etc. and the container is loaded into a transport pig to prevent unnecessary radiation exposure to personnel such as the radio pharmacist technician and driver responsible for creation handling and transport of the FDG from the cyclotron site to the PET imaging site. Since the half life of FDG is short approximately 110 minutes it is necessary to quickly transport the FDG to the PET imaging site. Depending upon the elapsed transport time and the initial radioactivity level of the FDG at the time of fabrication the radioactivity level of the FDG may need to be re measured at the PET imaging site. As an example if the radioactivity level is too high the transport radio pharmacist or a radio pharmacist at the PET imaging site may be required to dilute the FDG with a dilutent such as for instance saline solution and remove part of the volume or extract fluid to reduce radioactivity prior to patient injection. During this entire process the handling of FDG from creation to patient injection may be entirely manual. Within this process shielding products as described previously i.e. transport pigs syringe shields L blocks etc. are used to shield individuals from FDG. While shielding may reduce the radiation exposure of the radio pharmacist the radio pharmacist may still be exposed to emissions from the radiopharmaceutical agent during the manual mixing volume reduction and or dilution process needed to obtain the required dose. After injection and often after an additional delay to allow the radiopharmaceutical to reach and be absorbed by the desired regions of interest in the body the patient is typically placed on a movable bed that slides by remote control into a circular opening of an imaging scanner referred to as the gantry. Positioned around the circular opening and inside the gantry are several rings of radiation detectors. In one type of radiation detector each detector emits a brief pulse of light every time it is struck with a gamma ray coming from the radionuclide within the patient s body. The pulse of light is amplified by a photomultiplier converted to an electronic signal and the information is sent to the computer that controls the apparatus and records imaging data.

Clinical sites that inject radiopharmaceuticals typically do so using single use doses provided for each patient. Sites order unit doses assayed to the planned injection time for each planned patient. These doses are often ordered with a sufficient activity margin to accommodate radiopharmaceutical decay due to slight differences between planned and actual injection times. Sites typically order extra unit doses to handle add on patients or to mitigate drastic schedule variations within their planned patient set.

However it is becoming more common to have radiopharmaceutical agents delivered in a multi dose format to the treatment site. A multi dose container provides all scheduled patient doses in a single container. A patient s dose is extracted from the multi dose container at the time of injection. Ideally the multi dose container will service all patients including planned patients that are not dosed at their scheduled time and possibly unplanned for patients.

When determining the container configuration for their patient schedule clinicians must trade off minimizing cost with being able to handle schedule deviations. As such the container configuration will typically only account for a typical schedule variation for a given clinician s site. There will be times when extreme schedule variations will render the ordered multi dose container inadequate to service the planned patient schedule. Clinicians must take corrective actions such as ordering more doses when they are going to have activity shortfalls. Due to the long turn around time when ordering doses it is imperative that clinicians are made aware of a suspected shortfall in their multi dose container as early as possible. Accordingly a need exists for a system and a method to quickly and easily determine a multi dose container configuration that meets a planned patient schedule with a sufficient margin to account for reasonable schedule variation while minimizing multi dose container cost.

Furthermore when determining the container configuration for their patient schedule clinician s must trade off minimizing cost with being able to handle schedule deviations. As such the container configuration will typically only account for typical schedule variation for a given clinicians site. There will be times when extreme schedule variations will render the ordered multi dose container inadequate to service the planned patient schedule. Clinicians must take corrective actions such as ordering more doses when they are going to have activity shortfalls. Due to the long turn around time when ordering doses it is imperative that clinicians are made aware of a suspected shortfall in their multi dose container as early as possible. Accordingly a further need exists for a system and method for monitoring multi dose container usage and predicting a likely shortfall at the earliest possible moment.

Therefore it is an object of the present disclosure to provide a method and system that overcome some or all of the drawbacks and deficiencies evident in the prior art. More specifically the systems and methods described herein allow for a clinician to quickly and easily determine a multi dose container configuration that meets a planned patient schedule with a sufficient margin to account for reasonable schedule variation while minimizing multi dose container cost. In addition the systems and methods of the present disclosure allow for the monitoring of multi dose container usage and predict a likely shortfall at the earliest possible moment.

Accordingly provided is a method for planning and monitoring radiopharmaceutical usage during a plurality of radiopharmaceutical injection procedures. The method includes providing a schedule of the plurality of radiopharmaceutical injection procedures to produce a planned patient schedule based on the planned patient schedule calculating a multi dose container configuration for use during the plurality of radiopharmaceutical injection procedures transferring the planned patient schedule to a radiopharmaceutical fluid delivery system providing the multi dose container configuration to the radiopharmaceutical fluid delivery system and conducting the plurality of radiopharmaceutical injection procedures based on the planned patient schedule.

The schedule may include the time of an injection procedure for each patient and an activity removed from the multi dose container of radiopharmaceutical for each patient. The step of providing the schedule may include at least one of manually entering the time and activity for each patient into a computer retrieving the time and activity for each patient from a memory device associated with the computer and retrieving the time and activity for each patient from a remotely located patient device over a network. The planned patient schedule may be provided such that it is editable after being initially provided to accommodate add on patients cancellations time modifications to patients already provided on the planned patient schedule modifications to an activity removed from the multi dose container of radiopharmaceutical to patients already provided on the planned patient schedule or any combination thereof.

The method may further include the steps of monitoring the multi dose container configuration during the plurality of radiopharmaceutical injection procedures determining if there is a risk that at least one of the plurality of radiopharmaceutical injection procedures may not be completed properly and alerting an operator if there is risk that at least one of the plurality of radiopharmaceutical injection procedures may not be completed. The step of monitoring the multi dose container configuration may include determining remaining radiopharmaceutical activity and volume of the multi dose container configuration to provide a remaining activity estimation and adjusting the remaining activity estimation based on isotope decay. The step of determining the remaining radiopharmaceutical activity of the multi dose container configuration may be performed by one of an ionization chamber a CZT crystal detector a Geiger M ller counter and a scintillating counter.

The method may further include the step of displaying the planned patient schedule on a graphical user interface of the radiopharmaceutical fluid delivery system. The step of alerting an operator may include highlighting one of the plurality of radiopharmaceutical injection procedures in the planned patient schedule. The method may also include the step of updating the planned patient schedule to accommodate a maximum number of the plurality of radiopharmaceutical injection procedures if there is risk that at least one of the plurality of radiopharmaceutical injection procedures may not be completed.

Further provided is an article having a machine readable storage medium containing instructions that if executed enable a processor to load a schedule of a plurality of radiopharmaceutical injection procedures to produce a planned patient schedule and based on the planned patient schedule calculate a multi dose container configuration for use during the plurality of radiopharmaceutical injection procedures.

The article may also include instructions that if executed enable the processor to transfer the planned patient schedule to a radiopharmaceutical fluid delivery system. The schedule may include time of an injection procedure for each patient and an activity removed from the multi dose container of radiopharmaceutical for each patient. The step of providing the schedule may include at least one of manually entering the time and activity for each patient into a computer retrieving the time and activity for each patient from a memory device associated with the computer and retrieving the time and activity for each patient from a remotely located patient device over a network. The planned patient schedule may be editable after initial loading to accommodate add on patients cancellations time modifications to patients already provided on the planned patient schedule modifications to an activity removed from the multi dose container of radiopharmaceutical to patients already provided on the planned patient schedule or any combination thereof.

Also provided is a planning and monitoring software stored on a storage medium to plan and monitor radiopharmaceutical usage during a plurality of radiopharmaceutical injection procedures. The software includes programming instructions that if executed enable a processor to load a schedule of a plurality of radiopharmaceutical injection procedures to produce a planned patient schedule and based on the planned patient schedule calculate a multi dose container configuration for use during the plurality of radiopharmaceutical injection procedures.

The planning and monitoring software may further include instructions that if executed enable the processor to transfer the planned patient schedule to a radiopharmaceutical fluid delivery system. The schedule may include time of an injection procedure for each patient and an activity removed from the multi dose container of radiopharmaceutical for each patient. The step of providing the schedule may include at least one of manually entering the time and activity for each patient into a computer retrieving the time and activity for each patient from a memory device associated with the computer and retrieving the time and activity for each patient from a remotely located patient device over a network. The planned patient schedule may be provided such that it is editable after initial loading to accommodate add on patients cancellations time modifications to patients already provided on the planned patient schedule modifications to an activity removed from the multi dose container of radiopharmaceutical to patients already provided on the planned patient schedule or any combination thereof.

Further provided is a radiopharmaceutical fluid delivery device for performing a radiopharmaceutical injection procedure. The radiopharmaceutical fluid delivery device includes a disposable administration set for allowing fluid flow from a radiopharmaceutical source of the radiopharmaceutical fluid delivery device to a patient a pumping mechanism in fluid communication with the disposable administration set and the radiopharmaceutical source to pump fluid from the radiopharmaceutical source and through the disposable administration set to the patient a control unit operatively coupled to the pumping mechanism and configured to a receive a schedule of a plurality of radiopharmaceutical injection procedures and b control the pumping mechanism to conduct the plurality of radiopharmaceutical injection procedures based on the schedule and a display unit operatively coupled to the control unit for displaying the schedule to an operator.

The control unit may be further configured to c monitor the multi dose container configuration during the plurality of radiopharmaceutical injection procedures d determine if there is a risk that at least one of the plurality of radiopharmaceutical injection procedures may not be completed properly and e alert an operator if there is risk that at least one of the plurality of radiopharmaceutical injection procedures may not be completed.

The disposable administration set may be a multipatient disposable administration set that includes a medical fluid component a radiopharmaceutical component a coil component coupled to the medical fluid component and the radiopharmaceutical component and a waste component coupled to the medical fluid component the coil component and the radiopharmaceutical component.

Also provided is a method for optimizing a schedule of a plurality of radiopharmaceutical injection procedures. The method includes the steps of providing a schedule of the plurality of radiopharmaceutical injection procedures to produce a planned patient schedule transferring the planned patient schedule to a radiopharmaceutical fluid delivery system changing the planned patient schedule and suggesting changes in at least one of radioactive dose and infusion time for at least one future patient in the planned patient schedule. The method may also include the step of determining a new optimized patient schedule based on the changes suggested.

The schedule may include the time of an injection procedure for each patient and an activity removed from the multi dose container of radiopharmaceutical for each patient. The step of providing the schedule may include at least one of manually entering the time and activity for each patient into a computer retrieving the time and activity for each patient from a memory device associated with the computer and retrieving the time and activity for each patient from a remotely located patient device over a network. The planned patient schedule may be provided such that it is editable after being initially provided to accommodate add on patients cancellations time modifications to patients already provided on the planned patient schedule modifications to an activity removed from the multi dose container of radiopharmaceutical to patients already provided on the planned patient schedule or any combination thereof.

These and other features and characteristics of the present disclosure as well as the methods of operation and functions of the related elements of structures and the combination of parts and economies of manufacture will become more apparent upon consideration of the following description and the appended claims with reference to the accompanying drawings all of which form a part of this specification wherein like reference numerals designate corresponding parts in the various figures. It is to be expressly understood however that the drawings are for the purpose of illustration and description only and are not intended to limit the scope of this disclosure. As used in the specification and the claims the singular form of a an and the include plural referents unless the context clearly dictates otherwise.

For purposes of the description hereinafter the terms upper lower right left vertical horizontal top bottom lateral longitudinal and derivatives thereof shall relate to the orientation of embodiments disclosed in the drawing figures. However it is to be understood that embodiments may assume alternative variations and step sequences except where expressly specified to the contrary. It is also to be understood that the specific devices and processes illustrated in the attached drawings and described in the following specification are simply exemplary embodiments. Hence specific dimensions and other physical characteristics related to the embodiments disclosed herein are not to be considered as limiting.

It is to be understood that the disclosed embodiments may assume various alternative variations and step sequences except where expressly specified to the contrary. It is also to be understood that the specific devices and processes illustrated in the attached drawings and described in the following specification are simply exemplary embodiments.

An exemplary radiopharmaceutical fluid delivery system for use with the system disclosed herein is disclosed in United States Patent Application Publication No. 2008 0177126 to Tate et al. the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference. More specifically show an exemplary embodiment of such a radiopharmaceutical fluid delivery system . The fluid delivery system may be configured as a cart like apparatus having wheels and or casters for allowing the system to be movable. One or more of the wheels may be lockable to prevent the system from moving once it is in position. The system also preferably includes one or more handles for allowing an operator to move or position the system . Alternately the fluid delivery system may be a stand alone or fixed position apparatus.

The fluid delivery system includes a display or graphical user interface GUI for programming and operating the system . The GUI display may be attached to one of the handles as shown of the system . The display may be a color display and incorporate touch screen capability as known in the art for ease of use. The display may be fixed but is preferably pivotally connected to the fluid delivery system as shown by means of a movable arm that is pivotally connected to a joint . Further the display may be tilted or swiveled with respect to the arm to allow for optimal positioning of the display by an operator.

With specific reference to GUI touch screen display may be part of a control system embodied as a computer in a computing system environment used for controlling an injection procedure of the fluid delivery system . While any suitable computing device may be used to control the fluid delivery system an exemplary embodiment of one computing system and computing system environment will be discussed hereinafter with reference to . This computing system environment may include but is not limited to at least one computer having certain components for appropriate operation execution of code and creation and communication of data. For example the computer includes a processing unit typically referred to as a central processing unit or CPU that serves to execute computer based instructions received in the appropriate data form and format. Further this processing unit may be in the form of multiple processors executing code in series in parallel or in any other manner for appropriate implementation of the computer based instructions.

In order to facilitate appropriate data communication and processing information between the various components of the computer a system bus is utilized. The system bus may be any of several types of bus structures including a memory bus or memory controller a peripheral bus or a local bus using any of a variety of bus architectures. In particular the system bus facilitates data and information communication between the various components whether internal or external to the computer through a variety of interfaces as discussed hereinafter.

The computer may include a variety of discrete computer readable media components. For example this computer readable media may include any media that can be accessed by the computer such as volatile media non volatile media removable media non removable media etc. As a further example this computer readable media may include computer storage media such as media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data random access memory RAM read only memory ROM electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVDs or other optical disk storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by the computer . Further this computer readable media may include communications media such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and include any information delivery media wired media such as a wired network and a direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic signals radio frequency signals optical signals infrared signals biometric signals bar code signals etc. . Of course combinations of any of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

The computer further includes a system memory with computer storage media in the form of volatile and non volatile memory such as ROM and RAM. A basic input output system BIOS with appropriate computer based routines assists in transferring information between components within the computer and is normally stored in ROM. The RAM portion of the system memory typically contains data and program modules that are immediately accessible to or presently being operated on by processing unit e.g. an operating system application programming interfaces application programs program modules program data and other instruction based computer readable code.

The computer may also include other removable or non removable volatile or non volatile computer storage media products. For example the computer may include a non removable memory interface that communicates with and controls a hard disk drive i.e. a non removable non volatile magnetic medium a removable non volatile memory interface that communicates with and controls a magnetic disk drive unit which reads from and writes to a removable non volatile magnetic disk an optical disk drive unit which reads from and writes to a removable non volatile optical disk such as a CD ROM a Universal Serial Bus USB port for use in connection with a removable memory card etc. However it is envisioned that other removable or non removable volatile or non volatile computer storage media can be used in the exemplary computing system environment including but not limited to magnetic tape cassettes DVDs digital video tape solid state RAM solid state ROM etc. These various removable or non removable volatile or non volatile magnetic media are in communication with the processing unit and other components of the computer via the system bus . The drives and their associated computer storage media discussed above and illustrated in provide storage of operating systems computer readable instructions application programs data structures program modules program data and other instruction based computer readable code for the computer whether duplicative or not of the information and data in the system memory .

Desirably an operator of the fluid delivery system will enter commands information and data into the computer using the touch screen of the GUI display via an operator input interface . However it has been envisioned that an operator may enter commands information and data into the computer using other attachable or operable input devices such as a keyboard a mouse etc. via the operator input interface . Of course a variety of such input devices may be utilized e.g. a microphone a trackball a joystick a touchpad a scanner etc. including any arrangement that facilitates the input of data and information to the computer from an outside source. As discussed these and other input devices are often connected to the processing unit through the operator input interface coupled to the system bus but may be connected by other interface and bus structures such as a parallel port game port or a USB. Still further data and information can be presented or provided to an operator in an intelligible form or format through certain output devices such as the GUI display to visually display this information and data in electronic form a printer to physically display this information and data in print form a speaker to audibly present this information and data in audible form etc. All of these devices are in communication with the computer through an output interface coupled to the system bus . It is envisioned that any such peripheral output devices be used to provide information and data to the operator.

The computer may operate in a network environment through the use of a communications device which is integral to the computer or remote therefrom. This communications device is operable by and in communication with the other components of the computer through a communications interface . Using such an arrangement the computer may connect with or otherwise communicate with one or more remote computers such as a remote computer of a hospital information system which typically includes many or all of the components described above in connection with the computer . Using appropriate communications devices e.g. a modem a network interface or adapter etc. the computer may operate within and communicate through a local area network LAN and a wide area network WAN but may also include other networks such as a virtual private network VPN an office network an enterprise network an intranet the Internet etc. It will be appreciated that the network connections shown are exemplary and other means of establishing a communications link between the computers may be used.

As used herein the computer includes or is operable to execute appropriate custom designed or conventional software to perform and implement the processing steps of the methods and systems disclosed herein thereby forming a specialized and particular computing system. Accordingly the presently invented methods and systems may include one or more computers or similar computing devices having a computer readable storage medium capable of storing computer readable program code or instructions that cause the processing unit to execute configure or otherwise implement the methods processes and transformational data manipulations discussed herein. Still further the computer may be in the form of a personal computer coupled to the fluid delivery system a processor formed integrally with the fluid delivery system a computer provided remotely from the fluid delivery system or any other type of computing device having the necessary processing hardware to appropriately process data to effectively implement the presently invented computer implemented method and system.

Returning to the fluid delivery system may include a retractable lid or cover having a primary handle including a latch release see and a secondary handle . The lid may cover an upper surface that defines a number of recessed portions such as wells and troughs into which a container or container see in of a pharmaceutical or a radiopharmaceutical discussed in more detail below and various components of a multi patient fluid path set hereinafter MPDS discussed in more detail below may be positioned during an injection procedure. A locking mechanism such as a combination or a key lock not shown may be used to lock the lid in a closed position to for example prevent use or access of the system by unauthorized personnel. In another embodiment the locking mechanism may be a software implemented lock such as a password protected access point that is accessible through the display and is adapted to lock the cover in a closed position and or to prevent unauthorized personnel from accessing or operating the system .

The lid is slidable or retractable by for example using primary handle and latch release with respect to the cart to allow for insertion and removal of the container or container and MPDS from the fluid delivery system . The lid upper surface and various other portions of the cart preferably include suitable radioactive shielding such as lead for minimizing potential radiation exposure from the radiopharmaceutical to the operator. In this manner the radiopharmaceutical container and the components of the MPDS can lie below the plane of surface whereupon the surface or one or more portions thereof can be covered by the lid during use to limit radiation exposure to the operator or other medical personnel. Further instead of a retractable lid surface itself could be disposed on a portion of the fluid delivery system e.g. a drawer type mechanism that slidably displaces with respect to a remainder of the fluid delivery system .

As further shown in the fluid delivery system includes a pumping mechanism such as a peristaltic pump a removable replaceable source of medical fluid such as saline an output device such as printer and an interrupt button . The peristaltic pump is shown in a closed position in but may be opened see to receive a length of tubing see in fluid connection with the source of medical fluid to inject the fluid into a patient discussed in more detail below . While a peristaltic pump is currently preferred any suitable type of pumping mechanism such as a piston driven syringe pump gear pump rotary pump or in line pump may be used.

The printer may be used to generate records of the injection and or imaging procedures performed on patients for inclusion in patients medical records or for billing or inventory purposes. The printer may be pivotally connected to the system see to allow an operator to load paper or labels into the printer .

The interrupt button allows an operator to quickly and easily pause or abort an injection procedure in the event of for example patient discomfort or an emergency without having to resort to the GUI display which also can be manipulated to pause or abort an injection procedure . The interrupt button may be connected to LEDs and or a printed circuit board to provide visual and or auditory alarms when the interrupt button has been activated.

Turning to additional features and components of the fluid delivery system including the upper surface the MPDS a container access system and a single patient fluid path set hereinafter SPDS will be discussed.

As shown in the upper surface generally defines wells and recesses or troughs into which various components of the MPDS are situated. Specifically a first recess or trough accommodates a first tubing section of the MPDS and a tubing holder for holding the tubing section and preventing it from getting kinked or tangled with for example the SPDS . The first tubing section may also include the tubing length that is placed within the peristaltic pump and is in fluid connection with the medical fluid source .

The first trough leads into a second recess or trough that accommodates a second pumping mechanism such as a peristaltic pump and a T connector including check valves of the MPDS . As shown in the second trough also leads to a first well that accommodates a container access system and a radiopharmaceutical vial or container disposed in a container shield or PIG discussed in more detail below and to a second well that accommodates a dose calibrator or ionization chamber for the fluid delivery system . As shown in the ionization chamber preferably accommodates a coil assembly of the MPDS discussed in more detail below . Although the system is described as including an ionization chamber for detecting activity of the radiopharmaceutical fluid this is not to be considered as limiting the scope of this disclosure as any suitable activity detector may be used such as but not limited to a CZT crystal detector a Geiger M ller counter a scintillating counter and a parabolic detector such as the parabolic sensor disclosed in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 664 653 which is hereby incorporated by reference.

A third recess or trough extends from the second well to a third well and further along the surface of the fluid delivery system . The trough accommodates a T connector of the MPDS two pinch valves an air detector and a mount or retainer for holding the connector end of the MPDS . The pinch valves may be powered and controlled by the fluid delivery system but alternately could be manually operated. In another alternate embodiment the pinch valves and the T connector of the MPDS may be replaced with a manual or automated 3 way stopcock.

The third well accommodates a waste receptacle or bag for receiving medical fluid and or pharmaceutical that is discarded during for example a priming procedure discussed in more detail below to prepare the system for an injection procedure.

As shown in the SPDS includes a length of tubing preferably coiled as shown having a first end that is attachable to the connector end of the MPDS and a patient end having a luer connector that is attachable to for example a catheter not shown placed in a venous structure of a patient. As discussed in more detail below the MPDS may be used for multiple patients but the SPDS is intended to be used on a per patient basis and discarded after use with a single patient to prevent for example cross contamination between patients.

As can be appreciated after reviewing the secondary handle of lid overlies the tubing holder and the mount when the lid and handle are closed to cover the MPDS . The secondary handle may be flipped open from the closed position as shown in without retracting the cover to allow an operator to connect the SPDS to the MPDS as discussed in more detail below . As best shown in the SPDS may be placed under the secondary handle when it is closed.

The fluid delivery system further includes the system controller see in communication with the various components thereof including the GUI the pumps the dose calibrator or ionization chamber the interrupt button the air detector the printer and motors see for pinch valves respectively for controlling the operation of the system . The system controller may be embodied as the computer as discussed in greater detail hereinabove with reference to .

As can be appreciated the wells and troughs formed in the upper surface can be sized configured or arranged as suitable for the length design or configuration of the MPDS or other components thereof including the radiopharmaceutical container container shield container access system ionization chamber waste receptacle etc.

It should be understood that in no way is intended to convey dimensions or relative dimensions of the aforementioned recessed portions or MPDS components instead conveys general positional relationships of such recessed portions with respect to one another.

It should further be understood and appreciated that the recessed portions shown and described with respect to are encased throughout with suitable radioactive shielding to further minimize exposure to an operator.

Turning now to an embodiment of the MPDS and components thereof will be discussed. In addition specific details of the coil assembly employed in the MPDS are shown and described with respect to and .

By way of a general overview the MPDS in accordance with at least one embodiment allows for FDG or other radiopharmaceutical to be drawn from a bulk radiopharmaceutical container and placed into a coil assembly that allows an ionization chamber to measure the amount of activity in the coil assembly . Once the system prepares a dose having the desired activity level the fluid delivery system will deliver the FDG dose to the patient through the SPDS .

Generally the MPDS can be considered in terms of four components 1 a medical fluid or saline component 2 an FDG or pharmaceutical component 3 a coil assembly component and 4 a waste component. The saline component draws saline out of a bulk source e.g. via peristaltic pump . This is then used to prime the MPDS i.e. remove air therefrom position FDG in the coil assembly in the ionization chamber and then deliver the dose to the patient.

The FDG component serves to draw FDG out of bulk radiopharmaceutical container e.g. via peristaltic pump and place the same into the fluid path to the ionization chamber .

The coil assembly component is employed to position the radiopharmaceutical to allow its radioactivity level to be optimally measured by the ionization chamber . Through the arrangement of the coil assembly as discussed in more detail below the radiopharmaceutical can be optimally oriented and located within the linear region of the ionization chamber to more accurately measure its activity level and prepare an optimal dose for injection into a patient.

The waste component holds the saline fluid and or radiopharmaceutical that are discarded during the prime and dose preparation procedures which are conducted to prepare the fluid path and the pharmaceutical dose for injection into a patient.

Primary components of MPDS include as shown a spike for connecting the MPDS to the medical fluid or saline source a vented cannula for connecting with a source of FDG or other radiopharmaceutical a coil assembly a T connector with check valves for fluidly connecting the saline source the radiopharmaceutical source and the coil assembly a waste bag a connector end and a T connector for fluidly connecting the coil assembly the waste bag and the connector end .

In general MPDS and fluid delivery system are configured for priming i.e. purging air from the MPDS delivering pharmaceutical e.g. FDG to a patient and providing a saline flush while minimizing or eliminating exposure of administering or operating personnel to the detrimental effects of the pharmaceutical and minimizing or eliminating creation of contaminated waste. Moreover MPDS and other elements disclosed herein also facilitate safe delivery of the pharmaceutical to multiple destinations for example dose delivery to a series of patients .

A T connector and check valves accommodate a first tubing section that is in fluid connection with spike and a second tubing section in fluid connection with cannula . The check valves may be integrally formed with the T connector or may be separate components or they could be combined into a single dual check valve. The check valves prevent saline from being pumped by peristaltic pump into second tubing section and the pharmaceutical from being pumped by peristaltic pump into the first tubing section .

A third tubing section leads to coil assembly including tube coil and a fourth tubing section leads from the coil assembly to the T connector . As described below the tube coil is formed from a tubing section that has dimensions different from those of the third tubing section and the fourth tubing section .

A fifth tubing section leads from the T connector to the waste receptacle and a sixth tubing section leads from the T connector to the connector end . As shown above in the connector end mates with the first end of the SPDS for delivery of a pharmaceutical to a patient.

The connector end may be a swabable luer valve Part No. 245204024 provided by Halkey Roberts Corporation of St. Petersburg Fla. that is biased to close or seal off the connector end of the MPDS when the SPDS is not connected thereto. The swabable luer valve prevents the MPDS from being contaminated and allows an operator to swab or clean by for example an alcohol wipe the connector end prior to connecting an SPDS thereto. Alternately however the connector end may be a standard luer connector as known in the art.

As schematically shown in the tubing length of the first tubing section can be placed within pump indicated by dotted lines to pump saline or other medical fluid from source and a portion of the second tubing section can be placed within pump indicated by dotted lines to pump a radiopharmaceutical from a radiopharmaceutical source.

Absolute and relative dimensions of the components shown in including tubing may be chosen to best suit the applications at hand. The first tubing section may be approximately 56.75 inches in length has an outer diameter OD of approximately 0.188 inches and an inner diameter ID of approximately 0.062 inches and has a 45 durometer. The second tubing section may be approximately 8.75 inches in length and is formed of microbore tubing having an OD of about 0.094 inches and an ID of about 0.032 inches and a 45 durometer. The third tubing section may be approximately 15 inches in length has an OD of approximately 0.163 inches and an ID of approximately 0.062 inches and has a 60 durometer. The fourth tubing section may be approximately 12 inches in length has an OD of approximately 0.163 inches and an ID of approximately 0.062 inches and has a 60 durometer. The fifth tubing section and the sixth tubing section may each be approximately 5 inches in length have an OD of approximately 0.163 inches and an ID of approximately 0.062 inches and have a 60 durometer. The tubing in tube coil may be approximately 41 inches in length has an OD of about 0.218 inches and an ID of about 0.156 inches and an 80 durometer. All of these dimensions are provided for exemplary purposes only and are not to be construed as limiting the present disclosure.

The microbore tubing of second tubing section may be formed of for example silicone C Flex or silicone like PVC material. Essentially the use of microbore tubing in second tubing section improves volume accuracy and thereby improves measured activity accuracy i.e. of pharmaceutical delivered to the patient and reduces radiopharmaceutical waste.

By way of tubing material for the other tubing sections and tube coil essentially any suitable polymeric material including standard PVC or pump tubing may be employed.

Referring again to the placement of the MPDS in the fluid delivery system and the connection of the SPDS will now be discussed. To set up the system at for example the beginning of the day the operator lifts the secondary handle grasps the primary handle and latch release and retracts the lid to reveal the upper surface of the system . If a used MPDS is present in the system the operator will remove and discard it.

A new MPDS may be removed from its typically sterile packaging and placed in the system as shown in . This includes placing the waste receptacle into well placing coil assembly into ionization chamber placing second tubing section into operative connection with pump placing the tubing length of the first tubing section into operative connection with pump and tubing holder placing vented cannula into fluid connection with radiopharmaceutical source or container located in well placing fifth tubing section in operative connection with pinch valve and placing sixth tubing section in operative connection with pinch valve air detector and mount . A saline source may be hung on a hook see and B or otherwise mounted on fluid delivery system and spike is inserted into port see of source to fluidly connect the MPDS to the source . Of course this installation procedure does not need to be completed in the order described above but may be completed in any suitable order consistent with the description or drawings hereof.

After the MPDS is installed and primed as discussed below the first end of the SPDS is connected to the connector end of the MPDS and the SPDS is primed to provide a wet connection at the patient end of the SPDS which is then connected to a catheter not shown located in a patient. The SPDS may be a coiled tubing formed of standard PVC approximately 60 inches in length and having an OD of approximately 0.100 inches and an ID of approximately 0.060 inches and a 90 durometer.

As shown in the MPDS includes a coil assembly . In the broadest sense coil assembly may include a section of tubing including portions of third and fourth tubing sections that is simply gathered in a coiled or an uncoiled amorphous fashion and placed inside ionization chamber .

As shown in however a more desirable embodiment of coil assembly includes a preferably thermoformed core element or structure that is preferably configured for allowing tubing section to be wrapped thereupon and to assume the coiled tube section indicated at . As such the coiled tube section or tube coil may be formed on the core element to facilitate optimal positioning of the tube coil within the ionization chamber .

To facilitate positioning of the tube coil the core element may include a tube channel defined by shoulders see that retain tube coil therebetween to hold the tube coil in position and to prevent tube kinking. Further the upper surface of core element defines an inlet channel or groove and an outlet channel or groove to accommodate third tubing section and fourth tubing section respectively.

The core element preferably may be self centering when inserted into the sleeve of the ionization chamber of the fluid delivery system to thereby facilitate optimal performance see . This may be achieved either through structural features of the coil assembly the structure of core element itself or a combination thereof when used with the sleeve of the ionization chamber .

As best shown in the core element may be formed by folding two elements together along an integral hinge . Suitable form locking mechanisms can be molded onto the core element to facilitate clasping of the elements together.

The tube coil may be comprised of approximately 7 turns see formed from a length of tubing that is approximately 41.0 inches. As shown in the height h of the tube coil is approximately 1.53 inches and the diameter w of the tube coil is approximately 1.95 inches. The tube coil is preferably formed from a tube having an OD of 0.218 inches and an ID of 0.156 inches. Further based on the length and ID of the tubing the tube coil preferably has a volume capacity of approximately 12.5 ml.

As discussed heretofore a source container or container see of a pharmaceutical or radiopharmaceutical is placed into the fluid delivery system e.g. in well formed in upper surface to prepare and perform an injection procedure. A radiopharmaceutical container or container is typically placed in a conventional container shield or PIG for transport by personnel.

Turning now to an exemplary embodiment of a container shield carrying device or system and a container access system are shown. Container access system is removably disposed within well of fluid delivery system and operates to hold container shield and to access the contents of the container contained therein.

As best shown in the container shield containing a radiopharmaceutical container includes a flange formed along a top end thereof and a removable septum cap that is securely and removably engaged with the container shield e.g. via threading to allow insertion and removal of the container therefrom.

As shown in the carrying system includes a collar unit that removably engages the flange formed on the container shield . The collar may be formed in two pieces that are pivotally connected together e.g. at one end thereof to allow the collar to engage and disengage the flange .

The collar includes two elongated slots formed in a top surface therein. As best shown in the slots each include a pin disposed therein and extending between two opposing walls thereof.

The carrying system further includes a handle unit that engages with the collar unit and the septum cap to allow the container shield and container to be carried and installed in the fluid delivery system . The handle unit includes a handle that is rigidly connected to a generally U shaped cross piece The cross piece defines two downwardly extending arms having slots formed thereon.

The slots each form a slight hook on the ends thereof and are adapted to engage and retain a second cross piece that supports a plunger having a generally frustoconical shape that mates with a generally frustoconical recess of the septum cap see .

The second cross piece is also generally U shaped and defines two downwardly extending arms having hooks formed therein. The open ends of the hooks are formed on opposite ends of the arms and are adapted to accept and retain the pins in slots of collar . The slots are sized to provide sufficient clearance for the arms to be inserted thereinto in a downward direction and for the hooks to engage pins through rotation of handle .

The plunger is connected to the second cross piece by means of a connector such as a screw and a spring . The plunger is biased by spring to ensure a tight fit between the plunger and the septum cap .

To engage and carry the container shield the collar is connected to the flange of the container shield as described above. The handle unit is then moved into proximity to the container shield by an operator grasping the handle and moving the unit into position and the arms are lowered into the slots of the collar . At substantially the same time the plunger is engaged with the septum cap with the spring ensuring a tight fit between the two. The operator then turns the handle unit in a clockwise direction see arrow AA in to seat the pins in slots into the hooks of arms .

The operator then lifts the combined container shield and container carrying system by moving the handle unit in an upward direction and transports it to for example the fluid delivery system . The operator then lowers the container shield into the container access system disposed in well see and rotates the handle unit in a counter clockwise direction to disengage the hooks from the pins . The operator then lifts the handle in an upward direction to remove the arms from the slots and the plunger from the septum cap thereby leaving the container shield with septum cap and collar in container access system in well see .

In an exemplary embodiment the plunger includes radioactive shielding such as lead to shield the operator from radiation that would otherwise leak through or be emitted from the septum of the septum cap . Together with the container shield and the septum cap the plunger of the container carrying system shields the operator from the radiation emitted by the radiopharmaceutical and prevents unnecessary radiation exposure. Further by extending the handle from the container shield the distance between the two functions to lessen any possible radiation exposure to the operator.

As discussed above with respect to the fluid delivery system includes a container access system that is removably disposed within well of fluid delivery system and is adapted to hold container shield and to provide access to the contents of the container within container shield .

Because containers such as container described herein typically come in various sizes such as 10 ml 15 ml 20 ml and 30 ml the fluid delivery system is intended to accommodate various container sizes. To do so the fluid delivery system may include one or more container shields and container access systems. Thus depending on the size of the container used at a clinical site or for a particular procedure an operator of the fluid delivery system can select the appropriate container shield and container access system and place it in the well of the fluid delivery system to enable a fluid injection procedure.

Referring again to once the MPDS is installed in the fluid delivery system the spike is placed in fluid connection with the saline source and the cannula is inserted into the container and placed in fluid connection with the pharmaceutical therein and an injection procedure can be implemented.

An exemplary injection procedure is discussed hereinafter with reference to . Many variations on the injection procedure may be implemented within the scope of this disclosure. For instance the container of radiopharmaceutical may be any suitable multi dose container configuration. This multi dose container configuration may include a dose of radiopharmaceutical for a plurality of patients provided in any suitable container for storing radiopharmaceuticals. The multi dose container configuration may include a dose of radiopharmaceutical for a plurality of patients provided in a syringe. In addition the multi dose container configuration may be a plurality of containers suitable for storing radiopharmaceuticals where each container stores a certain amount of a radiopharmaceutical composition. A micro fluidic device or other radiopharmaceutical generation technology capable of real time generation of a certain amount of a radiopharmaceutical may also be utilized as the multi dose container configuration. Furthermore the multi dose container configuration may be a plurality of suitable containers each holding a different radiopharmaceutical fluid. The multi dose container configuration may also be a pre loaded amount of radiopharmaceutical fluid in a coil of tubing of an administration set. Alternatively a single dose container may also be utilized. Accordingly the injection procedure described hereinafter is not to be construed as limiting this disclosure and while a container is described hereinafter this is not to be construed as limiting as any variety of radiopharmaceutical container may be used. Furthermore the following procedure describes the use of a first volume bolus or slug and a second volume bolus or slug of radiopharmaceutical delivered to a patient. This also is not to be construed as limiting injection processes to the injection procedure disclosed herein as any suitable number of slugs may be delivered to the patient.

An exemplary injection procedure can generally be divided into five phases. In an initialization phase the device is brought into a well defined initial state. In a calibration phase steps are performed for calibrating the radioactivity in container . In a delivery phase the radiopharmaceutical is delivered to the destination. In a step it is decided whether another injection shall be performed. If yes operation will continue again with the calibration phase . If no a shutdown phase will follow.

Before starting the operation the operator will have to determine two quantities the desired activity Ar to be injected to the patient and the estimated concentration of activity in the container activity per unit of volume e.g. expressed in MBq ml Cv. These data are provided to the system controller . Operation then starts with the initialization period .

Step Initial filling of radiopharmaceutical to point C In a first step the complete tubing is filled with saline thereby excluding air from the tubing system. For this T connector check valve and check valve hereinafter valve V are placed in a state that connects ports c and b while T connector pinch valve and pinch valve hereinafter valve V are placed in positions d and e . Pump flushes saline up to point B see . Then the tubing section is inserted into a container containing saline. Valve V is brought into a state that connects ports a and b while valve V still connects d and e . Pump now flushes saline until the tubing is completely filled with saline from point A see to the destination beyond valve V and air is thus completely purged from the system. The tubing section is then inserted into the container containing the radiopharmaceutical. Valve V is brought into a state that connects ports a and b while valve V connects ports d and f . Pump is operated to pump radiopharmaceutical in container from inlet point A and past point B at valve V to some point C in the third tubing section . The volume of radiopharmaceutical between points B and C in the third tubing section does not need to be known exactly it suffices to ensure that the section of tubing from A to B is filled completely with radiopharmaceutical and that the activity in the volume between B and C is not larger than the desired end activity Ar. The situation at the end of step is illustrated in where the volume of radiopharmaceutical between points B and C is designated by reference number .

Step Flushing of offset volume to dose calibrator Valve V is now switched to a state in which it connects ports c and b . Pump is operated to pump saline from the source towards valve V. The volume to be pumped is slightly larger than the volume in the third tubing section i.e. slightly larger than the volume between points B and D. This volume need not be known exactly. Thereby the offset volume is moved into the coil section . The situation at the end of this step is illustrated in .

Step Initial determination of activity The activity of volume in the coil section is measured by the ionization chamber measurement M . This activity will be called the offset activity A. The system controller now calculates the missing activity Am required to reach a total activity of Ar as shown in Equation 1 hereinafter 1 Equation 1 

This is illustrated in in the leftmost column. From this and the estimated concentration of activity in the container Cv the estimated missing volume Va still to be delivered is calculated as shown in Equation 2 hereinafter 

It is important to note that this calculation is still based on the estimate of the concentration of activity in the container and the result cannot be expected to be highly accurate. It is further important to note that no knowledge about the offset volume is required in this calculation. In addition ionization chamber may be any suitable activity detector. Such detectors include standard Geiger M ller counters scintillating counters an ionization chamber a cadmium zinc telluride CZT crystal detector etc. which should be calibrated to yield a sufficiently precise measure of the actual activity in the coil section . Desirably the activity detector is an ionization chamber.

This step concludes initialization . In the following calibration phase the following steps are performed 

Step Filling of radiopharmaceutical to point C Valve V is switched to a state in which it connects ports a and b . Pump is operated to pump a volume Vc through valve V filling the fill in section to point C. This situation is illustrated in where this volume is designated by reference number . Volume Vc is chosen to be approximately half of the estimated missing volume Va as set forth hereinafter in Equation 3 

It is important to note that volume Vc is known exactly in system internal units. The exact nature of these units depends on the type of pump used e.g. the units could be pump revolutions pump cycles etc. If a volume flow meter is placed in line with the pump the units provided by the flow meter can be used as system internal units. Depending on the type of pump and the type of tubing the resolution of volume in this step can be very small and even small volumes can be delivered accurately. In addition the predictive flow rate determination system as discussed in greater detail hereinafter may be used as system internal units.

Step Flushing of volume Vc to the ionization chamber Valve V is switched to connect ports c and b . Pump is operated to pump slightly more than the volume between points B and D of saline through valve V. Thereby volume which is equal to Vc of radiopharmaceutical is moved into the coil section . The situation at the end of this step is illustrated in .

Step Calibration of activity The activity in the coil section is measured by the ionization chamber measurement M . This activity level will be called A. It corresponds to the sum of the offset activity A and the activity of the volume Vc which will be called the reference activity Ac . This is illustrated in the second column of . Now the activity concentration in the container in system internal units Cs is calculated as set forth hereinafter in Equation 4 

The system is now calibrated in system internal units. Thereafter the volume Vc is determined. The activity Ac still required to reach a total activity of Ar is determined as set forth in Equation 5 2 Equation 5 

From this the volume Vc still to be delivered is calculated in system internal units as set forth in Equation 6 hereinafter 

This completes the calibration phase . In the following delivery phase the following steps are performed 

Step Filling of radiopharmaceutical to point C Valve V is switched to a state in which it connects ports a and b . Pump is operated to pump the volume Vc through valve V filling third tubing section to point C . This situation is illustrated in where this volume is designated by reference number .

Step Flushing of volume Vc to ionization chamber Valve V is switched to connect ports c and b . Pump is operated to pump slightly more than the volume between points B and D of saline through valve V. Thereby volume which is equal to Vc of radiopharmaceutical is moved into the coil section . Alternatively the total activity in the coil section is now measured optional measurement M see right column of . It should correspond exactly to the total desired activity Ar provided that the volume of the coil section is large enough to hold all three volumes and within this section. The latter condition can always be fulfilled if the volume of the coil section is at least five times the volume of the third tubing section . If a significant discrepancy is detected the system is stopped.

Step Delivery to injection catheter Valve V is switched to connect ports d and e . Pump is operated to pump at least the volume of the coil section plus the volume of the tubing from the coil section to the injection catheter and of the injection catheter itself of saline through valve V. Thereby all liquid in the coil section is flushed to the patient and exactly the required dose of radioactivity is delivered to the patient.

This completes the delivery phase . If another injection of the same radiopharmaceutical to the same or a different patient is required operation continues by repeating the calibration and delivery phases and . Otherwise operation stops by a suitable shutdown procedure which may involve additional cycles of flushing with saline.

When repeating calibration phase no additional initialization as in phase is necessary since the coil section has been flushed with saline and the radiopharmaceutical extends exactly to point B. No activity is present in the coil section . Therefore in the above calculations A can be set to zero in this case and Am is set to Ar. No further changes are necessary. The three phase procedure with phases and now simplifies to a two phase procedure with phases and only.

It will be appreciated that the various embodiments of the disclosed device and the associated methods of operation provide a number of inherent safety features. Specifically there is a high degree of redundancy in the operation of the device such that even in case of failure of one component such as a pump or a valve it is impossible that more than the desired dose will be delivered to the patient. Specifically by its design the system will only allow the dose present within the coil section to be delivered to the patient. This is because during the actual delivery of the radiopharmaceutical there is no connection between the container and the fluid delivery line. The discrete nature of the sequential measurements of activity within the coil section is another feature which increases safety. In step the activity in the coil section is actually known beforehand and measurement M just serves to confirm that the right amount of activity is present in the coil section . If significant discrepancies are detected between the expected result and the actual measurement operation will be stopped immediately and an alarm will be given.

It will also be appreciated that in normal operation no radiopharmaceutical will enter the waste reservoir . Thus generation of radioactive waste is minimized.

The disclosure now turns to particular embodiments as illustrated in that could conceivably be employed in programming and operating a fluid delivery system as broadly contemplated herein.

With reference to screen captures of a program used for determining a multi dose container configuration that meets a planned patient schedule with a sufficient margin to account for reasonable schedule variation while minimizing multi dose container cost are illustrated. Upon initiating the multi dose container planning software on a computer such as computer a clinician will be presented with a screen as illustrated in . A schedule is then provided as input to the multi dose container planning. This schedule represents the patient load expected to be serviced by a multi dose radiopharmaceutical container such as container . The schedule may include the time of an injection procedure entered into the column labeled time for each patient and an activity entered in the column labeled activity removed from the multi dose container of radiopharmaceutical for each patient.

The schedule may be entered by manually entering time and activity for each patient into the computer using an input device such as a keyboard retrieving the time and activity for each patient from a memory device associated with the computer or retrieving the time and activity for each patient from a remotely located patient device over a network. While the a computer may be used to enter the schedule this is not to be construed as limiting the present disclosure as any suitable computing device such as but not limited to a cellular phone a Personal Digital Assistant PDA or the control system of the injector may be utilized to enter the schedule . In addition while schedule has been described hereinabove as the schedule of injection procedures for a day. This is not to be construed as limiting the present disclosure as any period of time may be used such as a week a month or a year.

The Time of Prime block allows the clinician to enter a time preferably immediately before the first scheduled patient at which the clinician will be preparing the fluid delivery system for use as described hereinabove. At this time a small amount of activity may be removed from the container to validate the container contents or for the automatic injection system to remove air from the MPDS and the SPDS . The activity associated with this action is not provided by the clinician.

Once the clinician has entered the schedule and entered the time of priming using the Time of Prime block the clinician presses the update chart button . With specific reference to the update chart button allows the processor of the computer to run an algorithm to determine various valid container configurations and plots these container configurations as blocks on graph . The x axis of the graph may be volume of the container and the y axis may be activity of the radiopharmaceutical fluid within the container . For instance point would represent a container having a volume of 20 mL and containing a radiopharmaceutical fluid having an activity level of 700 mCi.

The system determines the correct placement of blocks on graph as follows. A radiopharmaceutical container order is typically specified with four parameters 1 radiopharmaceutical radioisotope 2 assay time 3 assay volume and 4 assay activity. The radiopharmaceutical is generally set by the application e.g. FDG for PET . The assay time is the time at which the container contains the specified assay activity. The assay time is generally prescribed based on normal delivery schedules and can be defined by the clinician. The unknown factors that must be determined are the assay volume and assay activity. When the system determines these factors all available solutions are plotted on graph as blocks as shown in .

These values are determined by calculating all container volume and activity pairs at a specified assay time that can meet the given schedule taking into account injection system constraints to produce blocks on graph .

The following system constraints are considered in the model 1 Prime Volume volume removed from the container to complete system setup operations that cannot be used for patient dosing 2 Minimum Dose Volume the minimum volume of radiopharmaceutical fluid in a single patient dose 3 Maximum Dose Volume the maximum volume of radiopharmaceutical fluid in a single patient dose 4 Unextractable Volume volume of radiopharmaceutical fluid the system is unable to remove from the container 5 Maximum Container Activity maximum activity in a container that can be inserted in the system separate values may be used for priming and for patient dosing 6 Maximum Container Concentration maximum activity concentration that is expected from the radiopharmaceutical fluid 7 Maximum Container Volume the maximum volume the container can reasonably hold and 8 Decay Constant radioactive decay value for the radiopharmaceutical of interest. These values can be adjusted and changed by accessing the options menu from the tools pull down menu as shown in .

For the purposes of making calculations tenable the clinician can provide the system with a prescribed Volume Step e.g. 0.5 ml and Activity Step e.g. 10 mCi that provide reasonable precision with respect to the overall solution space. These values can also be adjusted and changed by accessing the options menu from the tools pull down menu as shown in .

Based on the constraints listed above it should be clear that only container volumes in the range from Unextractable Volume to Maximum Container Volume in increments of Volume Step need be considered and container activities in the range from zero to Maximum Container Activity at Priming referenced to the given assay time in increments of Activity Step need be considered by the system.

Given this operating range constraint the rules for determining the container activity container volume pairs as represented by blocks in that meet the schedule are as follows 

First Starting Concentration must be determined as Container Activity divided by Container Volume referenced by the container assay time. Thereafter first patient activity is determined as follows calculating activity remaining after priming by decaying the Starting Concentration to the Planned Injection Time and calculating activity pursuant to the following equation concentration Container Volume Prime Volume . Then this activity is decayed to the first patient s Planned Injection Time. Next the volume required for each patient dose is determined by decaying the Starting Concentration to the Planned Injection Time then calculating dose volume as Planned Dose concentration.

The Container Volume Container Activity pair is considered a valid solution if all the following hold 1 the Starting Concentration is greater than the Maximum Container Concentration 2 the Minimum Dose Volume is less than or equal to all dose volumes which is less than or equal to the Maximum Dose Volume 3 the difference between the Container Volume and the sum of the Prime Volume and all Dose Volumes is greater than the Unextractable Volume and 4 the first patient activity is greater than the Maximum Container Activity at the first patient injection.

The shaded area provided by block in shows the typical solution space from the preceding algorithm for a given patient schedule and container assay time. With reference to this solution space is constrained as follows B this boundary represents the highest achievable concentration in the system. The slope of this line is the lesser of a the Maximum Container Concentration and b First Patient s Planned Dose Minimum Dose Volume B this boundary represents leaving exactly the Unextractable Volume remaining in the container with the last patient the last patient dose size is bounded by the remaining extractable volume in the system instead of the absolute Maximum Dose Size B this boundary represents the minimum activity required to meet all scheduled patients and priming without other system constraints taking effect for container configurations along this boundary the last patient dose volume will be between the Minimum Dose Volume and Maximum Dose Volume and there will be a small amount of extractable activity left in the container B this boundary represents the minimum concentration limit. The slope of this line is the last patient s Planned Dose Maximum Dose Volume. For container configurations along this boundary the last patient dose volume will be the Maximum Dose Volume and there may be a relatively large volume of radiopharmaceutical remaining in the container B this boundary is the Maximum Vial Volume and B this boundary represents absolute maximum vial activity limits. A slope at this boundary appears if there is a higher Maximum Vial Activity at priming than at dosing and the first patient s Planned Injection Time is very near the Priming Planned Injection Time. Clinicians may choose any solution within the space provided by blocks to meet their schedule.

With reference to the schedule is editable after being initially provided to accommodate add on patients cancellations time modifications to patients already provided on the planned patient schedule modifications to an activity removed from the multi dose container of radiopharmaceutical to patients already provided on the planned patient schedule or any combination thereof. For instance a clinician may click on one of the activity values in the schedule using a mouse or any other suitable input device. A menu then appears allowing the user to change the activity value for a patient. Once the clinician has completed updating any values in schedule to produce a new schedule the update chart button is pressed and the algorithm discussed hereinabove is run on new schedule to produce all container volume and activity pairs at a specified assay time that can meet the new schedule taking into account injection system constraints as represented by blocks on graph in .

With reference to activity units may be changed from mCi to MBq using menu to produce a new schedule where the activity is measured in MBq. In addition after the activity units have been changed to MBq the clinician presses the update chart button such that the algorithm discussed hereinabove is run on new schedule to produce all container volume and activity pairs at a specified assay time that can meet the new schedule taking into account injection system constraints as represented by blocks on graph in . The computer may be coupled to a printer such that a hardcopy printout may be generated of both the schedule or and the valid container configuration graph .

With reference to the schedule or may be transferred to a radiopharmaceutical fluid delivery system by selecting the Export button from the file drop down menu. This causes the computer to either save the schedule to a removable memory storage device such as a flash memory drive or send the schedule to the fluid delivery system over a network. The clinician then orders the correct multi dose container configuration and provides the multi dose container configuration to the radiopharmaceutical fluid delivery system as described hereinabove.

With reference to a multi dose container configuration monitoring system that forecasts multi dose radiopharmaceutical usage over a pending patient schedule and alerts clinicians when there is a risk of not being able to dose the full schedule is described. Shown schematically in are various incarnations of a touch screen arrangement displayed on a graphical user interface such as GUI that could be employed with the fluid delivery system . As a non restrictive example such a touch screen arrangement could be utilized in conjunction with the system controller of any of a variety of fluid delivery systems as broadly contemplated herein.

In order to clearly and unambiguously communicate to an operator the current status of the fluid delivery system a GUI with easily legible symbols and icons including exceedingly operator friendly data entry mechanisms is broadly contemplated. An operator will thus be able to intuitively understand and undertake various tasks for operating fluid delivery system .

While a touch screen arrangement is contemplated in connection with it is to be understood that other types of data entry arrangements are conceivable that would achieve an equivalent purpose. For example soft or hard key entry could be used as well as trackball arrangements mouse arrangements or a cursor control touch pad remote from the screen .

With continued reference to a main operator interface provided on a touch screen is illustrated before an injection procedure has been started and before a schedule has been transferred thereto. After the operator prepares the system for a fluid delivery procedure the system generates the display shown in which indicates in the upper left hand side thereof that the System is ready . The touch screen includes a saline field and a pharmaceutical or FDG field providing an indication of the amount of saline in source and FDG in container respectively. For example the saline field indicates that 664 ml of saline is available and the FDG field indicates that 372 mCi of FDG are available as shown. Indicated at is a touch field showing requested activity currently displayed as 15.0 mCi for an injection procedure to be performed. When the system is activated the requested activity field may display a default activity value that can be pre programmed into the system or pre set by the operator. Alternatively the requested activity field can default to the last activity level that was programmed into the system .

Indicated at and respectively in are circular status icons that provide quick and easy reference to different aspects of system status and as such will highlight when an aspect of system status is on or active or provide status information on the system . Thus icons from left to right respectively convey information on the following system aspects activity present fluid motion injection status check for air priming status and system battery status .

The system battery not shown provides power to the system controller and to the ionization chamber to maintain the ionization chamber at its normal operating state in the event that the system is disconnected from an AC power source. The system battery is charged while the system is connected to an AC power source.

If the operator desires to schedule one or more injection procedures he activates schedule button thereby generating pop up shown in . At this point the operator may import a schedule or generated as described hereinabove by pressing the import schedule button . The operator can alter this schedule or or generate a new schedule by pressing the add appointment button . The operator can also clear any schedule that is already in the system by pressing the clear schedule button . Once the schedule is imported it appears in schedule window . The operator can review the schedule and make any appropriate changes with the add appointment button . Once the operator is satisfied with the schedule he presses the treatment button and is returned to a main operating screen with the schedule pane populated with the imported schedule as shown in . If for some reason during operation the system determines that the current multi dose container configuration will not be able to provide a scheduled patient with the scheduled activity at the scheduled time the system will provide a warning to the operator in information pane and highlight the scheduled injection procedure in the schedule window as shown in . The system controller may suggest resolutions to the schedule to be able to acceptably infuse the patient which may include adjusting the time of the injection procedure or adjusting the activity of the scheduled does such as by presenting the operator with a range of activity levels that are available to the patient. For instance an operator attempted to schedule an injection procedure at 16 00 that required a radiopharmaceutical having an activity level of 925 MBq. If the current multi dose container configuration is unable to accommodate such an injection procedure the scheduled injection procedure is highlighted and a range of activity levels such as 18 430 MBq is presented to the operator that would allow the operator to schedule a patient at 16 00. This range represents the Minimum Dose Activity and Maximum Dose Activity achievable for that patient. If this activity level is acceptable to operator the operator can adjust the injection procedure at 16 00 to have an activity level anywhere between 18 430 MBq. If this level is unacceptable the operator must cancel the procedure or adjust the infusion time.

The system may also be able to recommend or suggest changes in radioactive dose and or infusion times for future patients in the schedule collectively to maximize the ability of the system and operator to infuse all of the patients in the schedule. The suggested changes may be for each future patient or for the entire schedule. Any suggested changes in the schedule must be approved by an operator.

With reference to the operator after priming the system as discussed hereinabove then activates the Infuse button not shown to begin the injection procedures provided in the schedule pane .

The system further includes a multi dose container configuration monitoring system that forecasts multi dose radiopharmaceutical usage over a pending patient schedule and alerts clinicians when there is a risk of not being able to dose the full schedule. Proper functioning of the monitoring algorithm requires several preconditions to be met. If any of these preconditions are not met in lieu of forecasting container usage per the schedule the monitor should indicate to the user that it is unable to provide a radiopharmaceutical usage forecast until the precondition has been satisfied.

The preconditions are as follows. First the monitoring requires as input a patient schedule to be imported as discussed hereinabove. The schedule is editable after initial entry to accommodate add on patients cancellations and time dose modifications to scheduled patients. For the monitor to work properly the operator must have scheduled priming entry and times doses scheduled for all patients.

The next precondition is that the monitor requires an estimate of the remaining extractable radiopharmaceutical activity and volume at the present time. This is typically based on the original multi dose container assay information less fluid removed from the multi dose container and adjusted for unextractable volume and isotope decay. An activity monitoring device such as an ionization chamber a CZT crystal detector a Geiger M ller counter or a scintillating counter may be used to determine this information.

The third precondition comes from the fact that the monitor algorithm is intended to forecast dosing for future patients. It is feasible for one patient to be past due in which case the monitor can realistically associate that patient with the current time. However reliable forecasting is not possible if more than one patient is past due. Accordingly the monitor requires that no more than one patient pending dosing is scheduled in the past.

If all preconditions are met the monitor uses the following algorithm to determine if a given patient schedule can be met. The monitor uses the same system constraints discussed hereinabove as well as 1 Extractable Volume volume remaining in the multi dose container available for dosing it is the total volume remaining in the multi dose container less the Unextractable Volume and 2 Extractable Activity activity remaining in the multi dose container available for dosing. Given these parameters the monitor will determine the viability of meeting the given schedule with the multi dose container per the following algorithm 1 establish initial parameter values such as Start Concentration and Start Time and 2 for each item in the schedule that has not yet been executed e.g. priming undosed patients take the following action in order according to scheduled injection time 2.1 set Delta Time to the higher of the difference between the scheduled injection time and the start time or zero 2.2 set the Current Concentration by decaying the Start Concentration by Delta Time 2.3 for patient items set Dose Activity to the Planned Dose and for priming items set the Dose Activity to Prime Volume multiplied by the Current Concentration 2.4 for patient items calculate Dose Volume as Dose Activity divided by Current Concentration and for priming items set the Dose Volume to the Prime Volume 2.5 calculate the Maximum Dose Activity as Current Concentration multiplied by the lesser of Maximum Dose Volume or Extractable Volume 2.6 calculate the Minimum Dose Activity as Minimum Dose Volume multiplied by Current Concentration and 2.7 if any of the following are true mark the current and all subsequent items in the schedule as at risk for dosing with the current multi dose container 

If the step 2.7 determined that the scheduled item was at risk the processing must be halted and the operator must be notified. Otherwise parameters for processing the next item in the schedule are updated by updating Extractable Volume by subtracting from it the Dose Volume.

The items in the schedule may be marked by highlighting the items within the schedule pane as shown in by reference numeral to alert the operator action is likely required on their part. Furthermore the first at risk item in the schedule should present the Minimum Dose Activity and Maximum Dose Activity achievable for that patient thereby giving the operator sufficient information to determine the best course of action for this item. For example the clinician may elect to dose the patient with the current container even if the patient is at risk if the shortfall is still within acceptable dosing limits.

In addition as items are completed the schedule is updated with actual injection times and doses. This provides the clinician with a history of injections performed with the current container. In addition an icon such as a green check mark for a completed injection procedure and a yellow P for a partial injection procedure may be placed next to each item in the schedule in the schedule pane as shown in .

The main objective of the planning and monitoring of multi dose pharmaceutical procedures is to optimize a schedule of injection procedures to minimize the amount of radiopharmaceutical that is wasted and maximize the number of injection procedures that are performed with a given radiopharmaceutical configuration. Accordingly the system utilizes a two step procedure to achieve this objective. First an operator loads a schedule of injection procedures into the system that includes a time and a required activity level for each of the procedures and provides a user with a plurality of multi dose radiopharmaceutical container configurations that can be used to meet his needs as discussed hereinabove with reference to . Along with the time and required activity level for each of the injection procedures the system may also consider at least one of the following factors in determining the plurality of multi dose radiopharmaceutical container configurations that are presented to the user 1 delivery logistics 2 distance from the radiopharmaceutical production facility 3 container size 4 flexibility of the radiopharmaceutical 5 production schedule of the radiopharmaceutical production facility 6 injection system loses e.g. waste priming etc. and 7 radiopharmaceutical half life. However these factors are not to be construed as limiting the present disclosure as the system may also consider a variety of other factors may need to be considered in this determination. Thereafter the operator selects an appropriate multi dose radiopharmaceutical container configuration and begins the scheduled injection procedures.

The second step of the procedure is if the schedule changes during the injection procedures the system then recommends a new schedule that optimizes the number of patient scans and or injections that can be performed by suggesting changes in the radioactive dose and or the infusions times for each future patient or for the entire schedule. This maximizes the system s ability to infuse all of the patients in the schedule and minimizes radiopharmaceutical waste.

Although various embodiments have been described in detail for the purpose of illustration it is to be understood that such detail is solely for that purpose and that the disclosure is not limited to the disclosed embodiments but on the contrary is intended to cover modifications and equivalent arrangements. For example it is to be understood that this disclosure contemplates that to the extent possible one or more features of any embodiment can be combined with one or more features of any other embodiment.

