---

title: Context sensitive framework for providing data from relevant applications
abstract: Functionality is disclosed herein for using a context sensitive framework to identify relevant applications to a current context and to provide data received from the relevant applications to a user. Instead of a user having to manually locate and launch an application, relevant applications determined by a contextual service may provide data in response to receiving the context data. The applications that are identified as relevant to the context determine the application data to provide to the contextual service. The contextual service selects at least a portion of the application data to provide for display within a user interface. In some configurations, the selected application data is displayed within a user interface that maintains a same look and feel regardless of the application data that is displayed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09489247&OS=09489247&RS=09489247
owner: Amazon Technologies, Inc.
number: 09489247
owner_city: Seattle
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150217
---
These days there are a large number of software applications that are available to users of mobile computing devices. For instance some electronic marketplaces include over a million different applications. Many of these applications are available free of charge or at a low cost as compared to traditional desktop software applications. A user might obtain applications by wirelessly connecting to the electronic marketplace browsing the available applications and downloading selected applications.

Trying to find applications among the millions of available applications however can be challenging for a user. For example it may be difficult for a user to decide on a particular application to download as there may be hundreds of available applications that provide the same or similar functionality. A user might look at customer ratings for help in determining what applications to obtain. The user might also download and try out applications. For example some users download hundreds of applications to their mobile computing device. Even after installing an application on the mobile computing device however the user might not always remember that the application is available for use. Further after installing an application the user may still need to find the application on their device and launch the application when they want to use the application.

The following detailed description is directed to technologies for using a context sensitive framework to identify relevant applications such as end user programs or operating system software to a current context and to provide data received from the relevant applications. For example the data might be provided for a user for display and or to another application or computing device for some other use e.g. perform functionality using the current context . Through an implementation of the technologies disclosed herein instead of a user having to manually locate and launch an application relevant application data may be provided in response to receiving context data that identifies a current context of the user. As used herein the term context may refer to the background environment framework setting or situation that surrounds a particular event or situation. Generally speaking the term application may refer to any set of program instructions or data a processor reads to perform some task or operation. In some examples an application may be part of the system software e.g. the operating system or might be application software e.g. end user programs . Context data might include location data movement data activity data user data time data and the like. Some of the context data might be determined from sensors associated with a computing device. For example the sensors of the computing device might be used to determine a speed of the computing device a location of the computing device weather conditions lighting conditions sound near the user facial expressions of the user or some other individual and the like. The context data might also include data relating to a current activity. For example a current activity might relate to a user performing a search on the computing device a user driving a car a user accessing a particular website a user entering a restaurant and the like.

A contextual service uses the context data to identify applications that are relevant to the context. As used herein the term relevant may refer to an application that provides data and or functionality that is applicable to the current context. An application may be determined to be relevant for a particular context using registration data. According to some configurations applications and or computing devices register with the contextual service to receive notifications or be activated in response to the contextual service receiving specified context data. In some configurations applications or computing devices may receive the context data without registering. As an example of using context data fitness applications may be activated when the context data indicates that the user is walking or jogging global positioning system GPS applications may be activated when the context data indicates that the user is moving e.g. driving or the user is at a location that might utilize GPS e.g. a golf course . Similarly car rental applications might be activated when the context data indicates that the user is located in an airport is making a flight reservation or is performing a search for rental cars. In other examples a computing device might be activated and or be configured to perform some action in response to receiving context data. For instance a thermostat might be configured to change a temperature setting in response to receiving context data indicating that the user is coming home. As other non exhaustive examples context data can include any information about location such as obtained from GPS Bluetooth Bluetooth LE RF or any other applicable location sensor time date what application the user is using what features the user is using on a particular application physical environment such as temperature altitude humidity biometric pressure device orientation the proximity of other devices with relevant data such as a beacon or friend with a suitable device the proximity of other users biometric data such as pulse heart rate variability blood oxygenation body temperature blood sugar sleep what the user is viewing and the like.

In response to being activated the activated applications determine the data to provide that is relevant to the context. In other words the applications use context data associated with a user to determine and to provide application data that is personalized for the current context. As such rather than a user having to determine what applications to utilize the context sensitive framework uses the current context of a user in determining what applications to utilize. In this way the user does not have to specifically locate and launch an application. In some examples the context sensitive framework receives application data from more than one application aggregates the application data and provides the application data for use. For example selected application data might be presented in a user interface. For instance the context sensitive framework may provide a common user interface for data provided by the different applications. In this way the user is presented with data from different applications in a consistent manner. In addition this common user interface may be provided as a part of the operating system thus allowing the interface of the operating system to change as the context data changes.

The contextual service might also make a determination as to which data provided by different applications is to be provided. For instance the contextual service may de duplicate data that overlaps e.g. is the same or similar that is provided by different applications. The contextual service might also filter out data based on the current context of the user.

The context of the user or a computing device may also be updated. For example the computing device may periodically connect with the contextual service to provide further or updated context data to the contextual service. As the context of the user or computing device changes the applications that were previously determined to be relevant may change. For example an application that was relevant for one context may not be relevant to an updated context. As such the contextual service may update the applications determined to be relevant in response to changes in context.

In other examples the context sensitive framework may present the user with a selection of different applications that are relevant to the current context. For example the context sensitive framework may present the user with the applications that registered to be activated in response to the current context. After receiving a selection of an application from the user e.g. through the common UI the context sensitive framework might launch the application for the user. In some examples the contextual service may also use temporal data when selecting the applications that are relevant to the context. For instance when it has been determined that a user has recently eaten the contextual service may not utilize applications relating to restaurants for some period of time.

In other examples when the application is not installed on the computing device being utilized by the user the context sensitive framework might cause the application to be installed on the computing device or might execute the application remotely such as within a service provider network. In some examples the determination of whether to install the application on the computing device of the user may be based on whether it is likely that the user will frequently use the application. In some instances an application may be downloaded to the computing device installed on the computing device and then automatically removed after some period of time. For example an application that was installed on the computing device may be automatically removed after the context changes and or the event for which the application was downloaded ends.

As briefly described the context sensitive framework provides two way communication between applications and the context sensitive framework. According to some configurations the context sensitive framework allows two or more applications to communicate with each other. For example an application may define a custom event using a contextual service application programming interface API to which other applications may register to receive. Applications may use the custom event to send data to other interested applications. For instance a travel application may define a custom event that provides travel details for a user. This information might also be used to update the context data received by an application such that the data provided by the application is more applicable to the current context.

In some examples a mobile computing device is configured to monitor the context of the user and to provide the context data to the contextual service. In some cases the context data is provided to the contextual service when a network connection is established between the mobile computing device and a remote computing device that is part of the contextual service. Periodically or in response to a change in context or some other trigger the context data for the user is provided to the contextual service. The contextual service may be implemented on the computing device and or within a service provided by one or remote computers. In some examples the contextual service is provided by a network based service e.g. a service provider network .

Software developers may develop applications using a software developer toolkit SDK that may include an API that specifies functionality for connecting the application to a contextual service or other tools that might be used by a software developer to develop an application. For example the contextual service API may be used by the application to register to be activated or notified in response to one or more contexts. The application might also utilize the API to define one or more custom events send a message to another application request to receive context data from a computing device and the like. The SDK and or API might also be utilized to change the operation of the operating system and or some other application. For instance one part of the operating system might utilize the API to communicate with another part of the operating system in response to receiving certain context data or application data.

Analytics may also be provided to an authorized user such as a software developer of applications that relate to the use of the applications by the contextual service. For example the analytics might be displayed in a graphical user interface GUI and include information such as but not limited to usage data e.g. average use revenue data e.g. purchases cost for usage functionality utilized within the application and the like. The user may view the analytics to determine how applications are being utilized within the context sensitive framework.

According to some configurations the contextual service may collect and store data that may be used to improve the recommendations and or the data provided by the contextual service. The data that may be collected and stored may include context data received from different users and or computing devices application data received from various applications and usage data associated with users of the contextual service. For example the usage data might include what applications are selected by the users what applications are utilized by the users as well as how the users utilize the functionality of the application for different contexts. In some examples the contextual service may use a machine learning mechanism to improve the recommendations provided by the contextual service. For instance over time as the contextual service receives more data the data provided by the contextual service may change based on actual usage data associated with users of the contextual service that is received. The machine learning mechanism may be refined in response to receiving additional data. Additional details regarding the various components and processes described above for selecting and utilizing applications based on context will be presented below with regard to .

It should be appreciated that the subject matter presented herein may be implemented as a computer process a computer controlled apparatus a computing system or an article of manufacture such as a computer readable storage medium. While the subject matter described herein is presented in the general context of program modules that execute on one or more computing devices those skilled in the art will recognize that other implementations may be performed in combination with other types of program modules. Generally program modules include routines programs components data structures and other types of structures that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types.

Those skilled in the art will also appreciate that aspects of the subject matter described herein may be practiced on or in conjunction with other computer system configurations beyond those described herein including multiprocessor systems microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics minicomputers mainframe computers handheld computers personal digital assistants e readers mobile telephone devices tablet computing devices special purposed hardware devices network appliances and the like. As mentioned briefly above the examples described herein may be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks may be performed by remote computing devices that are linked through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment program modules may be located in both local and remote memory storage devices.

In the following detailed description references are made to the accompanying drawings that form a part hereof and that show by way of illustration specific examples or examples. The drawings herein are not drawn to scale. Like numerals represent like elements throughout the several figures which may be referred to herein as a FIG. or FIGS. .

Referring now to an operating environment is illustrated in which applications relevant to a current context provide data to a user according to various examples presented herein. The operating environment shown in includes computing devices A B a contextual service an application service and an application execution service .

According to some configurations the computing devices A B which may be referred to as computing devices may each be configured as a tablet computing device a smart phone a personal computer PC a desktop computer a laptop computer a notebook computer other mobile computing devices a video game system a set top box a smart television or the like. According to other examples at least a portion of the functionality of the computing devices may be provided by the application service the application execution service or a service provider network See the service provider network illustrated in .

The contextual service the application service the application execution service or the service provider network may include one or more application servers Web servers data storage systems network appliances dedicated hardware devices and or other server computers or computing devices for providing the functionality of the different services. In these examples the computing devices can include minimal hardware for connection to a network based computing platform via a network not shown . The computing devices may communicate via the network to access various services or computing resources described herein. For example the computing devices can access the contextual service the application service and or the application execution service . More details regarding the operation of the contextual service the application service and the application execution service are provided below.

The computing device A can be configured to execute an operating system applications a contextual service API as well as other application programs or components. The applications might include Web browser applications productivity applications e.g. word processing spreadsheet and or presentation applications travel applications fitness applications restaurant applications social network applications or any other applications. In some examples one or more of the applications may be configured to utilize the contextual service API . According to some configurations the applications might be part of the operating system and or some other component. Although the computing device B is not shown in the same detail as the computing device A it should be understood that the computing device B as well as other computing devices may be identically configured or may have more or fewer application programs and or components than are illustrated for the computing device A.

The application service may be configured to provide support for the contextual service . For example as discussed in more detail below the contextual service may utilize the application service to obtain one or more applications that are relevant to a current context associated with a user e.g. the user A or B .

Input to the applications may be provided via one or more input devices that are connected to or otherwise are in communication with the computing device A. Input to the applications can be used to control aspects of the application such as navigating menus. The computing device A may also be configured to present the visual content provided by one or more applications on one or more display devices that are built in to or are external to and in communication with the computing device A such as a display A.

The display A is an output device configured to present information in a visual form. In particular the display A may present visual content provided by the contextual service the client context manager B an application and the like. The visual content might include GUI elements text images video notifications virtual buttons virtual keyboards messaging data Internet content device status time date calendar data preferences map information location information and any other information that is capable of being presented in a visual form. In some examples the display A is a liquid crystal display LCD utilizing any active or passive matrix technology and any backlighting technology if used . In other examples the display A may be an organic light emitting diode OLED display. Other display types are contemplated. In addition the display A can include an input device such as a touchscreen or multi touch enabled touchscreen.

All or a portion of the applications may utilize a contextual service API to interact with the contextual service the application service and or the application execution service . As discussed above the applications might be any instructions or data that provide one or more functions. The applications may be configured to call one or more methods exposed by the contextual service API to access the contextual service via a network to take advantage of one or more of the features provided by the contextual service . The applications can also be configured to call one or more methods exposed by the contextual service API to access the application service or the application execution service . For example the contextual service API may be used by one or more of the applications to register to receive notifications and possibly be activated in response to a current context of the user A. The contextual service API might also be used to send data to another application request data relating to a current context and the like.

A user A may interact with the contextual service using the computing device A. In some examples the UI A that is displayed on the display A may be used to view and interact with the contextual service .

As illustrated the contextual service includes the context manager A that manages one or more sessions during which a computing device such as the computing device A interacts with the contextual service . The contextual service may support connections to any number of computing devices so that one or more users utilizing the various computing devices can share data with the contextual service the application service the application execution service and possibly with one another. As such the illustrated example is merely illustrative and should not be construed as being limiting in any way.

In the current example illustrated in a context sensitive framework that includes the contextual service identifies applications that are relevant to a current context of a user e.g. the user A or B and provides application data received from the relevant applications to the user. As briefly discussed above instead of a user having to manually locate and launch an application the relevant applications to a current context of the user may provide application data that is relevant to the current context of the user.

In order to determine a current context for a user the client context manager might utilize one or more of the sensors of the computing device A. The sensors might be configured to determine at least a portion of the context data A. For examples the sensors might determine location data movement data e.g. speed or acceleration data weather data biometric data time data lighting data facial recognition data and the like. Some of the context data A that is associated with a current context of the user A might be determined from the current activity of the computing device A. For example a current activity might relate to a user performing a search a user launching an application a user accessing a website and the like. In some examples the client context manager B aggregates the various data relating to the current context and sends the context data A to the contextual service .

The contextual service uses the received context data A to identify one or more applications that are relevant to the current context of the user A. As briefly discussed above an application may be determined to be relevant for a particular context based at least in part on whether the application registered with the contextual service to be activated in response to a current context indicated by the context data . For example the contextual service may determine that the applications A F are relevant to the context specified by the context data A. The applications determined to be relevant may or may not be installed on the computing device A. In the current example the applications A C are installed on the computing device A and the applications D F are located remotely e.g. within the application service and or the application execution service .

According to some configurations applications register with the contextual service to be activated in response to the contextual service receiving a specified context data A. For example fitness applications may register with the contextual service to be activated when the context data A indicates that the user is walking or jogging. Other applications may be activated when the context data A indicates that the user is moving. Similarly car rental applications might be activated when the context data A indicates that the user A is located in an airport is making a flight reservation or is performing a search for rental cars. In other examples the contextual service may determine the applications to activate.

In response to being activated the activated applications such as the applications A F determine the application data A F to provide to the contextual service and or the client context manager B or the context manager A that is relevant to the context data A. In other words the relevant applications that are activated by the contextual service and or the client context manager B use the context data A to determine the application data A to provide. For example a sports application that is determined to be relevant may provide different application data before a football game e.g. pregame data as compared to during a football game e.g. current score current stats for the game . Instead of the contextual service requesting specify application data from an application the contextual service is configured to activate the application and provide the application with the context data A. In some examples the contextual service might also request specific data from one or more of the relevant applications A F. As discussed in more detail below the applications A F may be executed on the computing device A and or within the application execution service or on some other computing device.

As illustrated rather than the user A or B having to determine what applications to utilize the context sensitive framework that includes the contextual service uses the current context of a user in determining the applications to utilize. In this way the user does not have to specifically locate and launch an application .

In some examples the context sensitive framework receives application data from more than one application aggregates the application data and presents selected application data in a user interface such as the user interface A or B. For instance the context sensitive framework may provide a common user interface which may be a part of the operating system software to present the application data A F provided by the different applications A F. In this way the user is presented with data from different applications in a consistent manner.

The contextual service might also make a determination as to which application data received from the different applications A F is to be provided to the user. For instance the contextual service may remove the duplicate data or similar data from the application data A F. The contextual service and or the client context manager B might also filter out data based on the current context of the user.

In other examples the contextual service may determine what other computing devices and or other applications are to receive the application data . For instance the contextual service might provide the application data to other computing devices within a home of the user in response to determining that the user is either at home or is traveling home and will arrive within a specified period of time. As another example the contextual service might provide the application data to other computing devices such as those in a car in order to start the car in response to determining that the user is about to get in the car. This could also include loading mapping or directions software with the user s likely destination as well as providing traffic related information.

The context data associated with the user A may also updated with the contextual service . For example the computing device A may connect with the contextual service to provide further or updated context data A to the contextual service . As the context data A associated with the current context of the user changes e.g. the location of the user changes the applications A F that were previously determined to be relevant may no longer be determined to be relevant. For example an application that was relevant for one context may not be relevant to an updated context. As such the contextual service may update the relevant applications in response to changes in context.

In other examples the context sensitive framework may present the user with a selection of different applications that are relevant to the current context. For example the contextual service may present the user B with a selection of applications that registered to be activated in response to the current context. After receiving a selection of an application from the user such as through the UI B the contextual service might cause the selected application G to be launched. In some configurations the selected application G might be launched within the application execution service . In other configurations the selected application G may be launched on the computing device B.

When the selected application G is not installed on the computing device B being utilized by the user the contextual service might cause the application G to be installed on the computing device B. In some examples the determination of whether to install the application G on the computing device B may be based on a prediction of how often the user B might use the application G. For example in some cases a selected application G might only be utilized once e.g. an application for a specific event . In some instances the client context manager C may connect to the electronic marketplace download the application G to the computing device B and cause the application G to be installed on the computing device B. After installation of the application G the client context manager C may launch the application G and then possibly at some later point automatically remove the application G from the computing device B. For example the application G might be removed after an event the application G has completed e.g. after a few hours a few day or the like . For instance if a user is going to a football game the application G may be automatically downloaded then removed once that user has left the football game.

When the application execution service executes the selected application G or some other remote computing device the context manager A of the contextual service may provide the application data G generated the by application G to the client context manager C. The application data G might be the application data G that is relevant to the context data B or might be some other portion or all of the data generated by the application G.

As briefly described above the context sensitive framework provides two way communication between applications and the contextual service . According to some configurations the context sensitive framework allows two or more applications to communicate with each other. More details for two or more applications using the context sensitive framework to communicate are provided below with regard to .

In some examples the client context manager B or C is configured to monitor the context of the user and to provide the context data A or B to the contextual service . In some cases the context data is provided to the contextual service when a network connection is established between the computing device and a remote computing device that is part of the contextual service .

In some examples software developers may develop applications using a software developer toolkit SDK that may include an application programming interface API such as the contextual service API that specifies functionality for connecting the application to the contextual service or other tools that might be used by a software developer to develop an application. For example the contextual service API may be used by the application to register to be activated or notified in response to one or more contexts. The application might also utilize the contextual service API to define one or more custom events that may be used to communicate data to another application and or to the contextual service .

As briefly discussed above the contextual service may collect and store data such as in the data store A that may be used to improve the recommendations such as the identifying data and or the application data A F that is provided by the contextual service. The data that may be collected and stored by the contextual service may include the context data received from different users and or computing devices application data received from various applications and usage data associated with users of the contextual service. For example the usage data might include what applications are selected by the users what applications are utilized by the users as well as how the users utilize the functionality of the application for different contexts.

In some configurations the contextual service may use a machine learning mechanism to improve the recommendations provided by the contextual service. The term machine learning may refer to one or more programs that learns from the data it receives. For example a machine learning mechanism may build modify or otherwise utilize a model that is created from example inputs and makes predictions or decisions using the model. In the current example the machine learning mechanism may be used to improve the identification applications that are data provided by the contextual service . The model may be trained using supervised and or unsupervised learning. For instance over time as the contextual service receives more data the data provided by the contextual service may change based on actual usage data associated with users of the contextual service that is received. The machine learning mechanism utilized by the contextual service may be refined in response to receiving additional data

Analytics may also be provided to a software provider or some other authorized user that relate to the use of the applications by one or more users utilizing the context sensitive framework. For example the analytics might be displayed in a GUI and include information such as but not limited to usage data e.g. average use revenue data e.g. purchases cost for usage functionality utilized within the application and the like. The software provider may view the analytics to determine how their applications are being utilized within the context sensitive framework. illustrates an exemplary GUI that may be used to provide the analytics.

In some examples the application service provides the electronic marketplace through which users can purchase content such as for example the applications application add ons in application items music e books movies and the like. It should be understood that various implementations of the operating environment include multiple networks contextual services application services application execution services applications and contextual service APIs . As such the illustrated operating environment should be understood as being illustrative and should not be construed as being limiting in any way.

As discussed above one or more applications may provide application data to the contextual service in response to being activated. In response to receiving the context data that is associated with the user that is at the football game the contextual service has identified a Seahawks application H a stadium application I a general sports application J a weather application K and a food application L that are relevant to the context data . The user might select or deselect the applications to utilize by selecting a user interface element within the select application UI element . As discussed above a user might not choose to receive data from all the applications determined to be relevant to the context data . In this example the user has decided not to include the use of the food application L as indicated by the dashed line around the food application L. In some examples the selections received from the user may be provided to the contextual service and used to update the model utilized by the machine learning mechanism. In this way the applications identified to be relevant to a certain context may change over time in response to the selections made by the users of the contextual service.

In the current example the GUI shows application data H K from a portion of the applications H L identified to be relevant to the current context. The GUI shows the application data within the selected application data UI element . The GUI also shows user interface elements that are associated with the selected applications L within the user interface elements section . The user interface elements section shows the user interface elements for the Seahawks application UI A the stadium application UI B the general sports application UI C and the weather application UI D. As can be seen each of the applications UI A D includes the options N. In some examples the user interface elements for the different applications H K may be combined or otherwise displayed in a different manner.

As discussed above the application data that is displayed within the GUI may be selected at least in part by the application providing the application data to the contextual service . In other words instead of requesting specific information from the applications the contextual service receives application data from the applications that the application determines to be relevant to the context data . For example the Seahawks application H might include pre game information before the game is started scores and stats for a game while the game is in progress and post game analysis and reviews after the game. As the context data changes e.g. the time changes during the game each of the applications H K may update the application data H K that is provided to the contextual service. . As discussed above the contextual service may use a machine learning mechanism when determining what application data to provide.

In some examples a user might be able to launch an individual application from within the GUI . For example the user might select an option not shown within the UI elements shown for the particular application. In other examples a user might also be able to customize the GUI . For instance in response to selecting a customize UI element not shown a user may then be prompted to select the different information that they would like to include in the display of the GUI . For example a user may select from a list or some other UI element or input method the application data that they would like displayed as well as how the data is displayed.

The applications A N may be configured to send and receive data to from the contextual service . The applications A N may also utilize the contextual service and the contextual service API to communicate with each other. For example an application such as the application A may generate the application data A in response to receiving the context data A. In some examples all or a portion of the application data A may be provided by the contextual service to one or more of the other applications such as the application B. The application data A might be provided directly to the application B as indicated by the dashed line or indirectly to the application B through the context manager A.

As discussed above an application such as the application A may specify one or more custom events to be utilized by the contextual service using the contextual service API . For example the custom events might relate to application data that is provided by the application A that other applications might be interested in receiving. For example the Seahawks application H illustrated in might specify a custom event that provides data about the SEATTLE SEAHAWKS that is not generally available to the other applications. In order to receive the application data A that is associated with the custom event specified by the application A the application B may register to receive notifications relating to one or more custom events specified by the applications . In other examples an application such as the application A might utilize functionality provided by the contextual service API to directly send direct data to another application such as the application B.

In some examples the application B receiving the direct data and or the application data A from the application A may use the data to generate the application data B that is provided to the context manager A that is part of the contextual service . In other configurations the context manager A may use the received application data A to update the context data A. For example in some cases the application data A might include additional context data that may be used to update the context that is associated with the user of the computing device A. The context manager A might provide the updated context data C to all or a portion of the applications A N. In the current example the context manager A has provided the updated context data C to the application N. The application N uses the updated context data C to generate the application data N.

The reporting component may be configured to provide analytics. For example the analytics reporting component included in the contextual service may be configured to provide the GUI illustrated in that displays analytics relating to a user of one or more of the applications A N. The analytics may be displayed on the UI A that is associated with the computing device A that may be utilized by a software provider or some other authorized user. The reporting component may also be configured to create reports that include information relating to one or more of the applications A N e.g. configuration information .

According to some configurations the contextual service receives the context data B associated with the user B and the context manager A determines the applications that are relevant to the context. The context manager A might determine the relevant applications from the registered applications that are registered with the contextual service . The context manager A might also determine the relevant applications from applications that are not registered with the contextual service . For example the context manager A might determine the relevant applications from the applications available from the electronic marketplace . In some instances the context manager uses data available from the electronic marketplace or some other source to determine functionality and or the popularity of an application.

In the current example the context manager A identifies the relevant applications that are relevant to the context data B. For example the relevant applications might be the applications that registered to be activated in response to the context data B. In some configurations the context manager A may select one of the relevant applications to provide to the computing device B in response to the context data B. In other examples the context manager A may present the user with a selection of different applications that are relevant to the current context. For example the contextual service may provide relevant application data to be presented in the user interface B. In the current example the user B selects the application G to be utilized. After receiving a selection of the application G from the user B the contextual service might cause the selected application G to be downloaded to the computing device B.

As discussed above the determination of whether to install the application G on the computing device B may be based on a prediction of how often the user B might use the application G. For example in some cases a selected application G might only be utilized once e.g. an application for a specific event . In some instances the client context manager C may connect to the electronic marketplace download the application G to the computing device B and cause the application G to be installed on the computing device B. After installation of the application G the client context manager C may launch the application G and then possibly at some later point automatically remove the application G from the computing device B. For example the application G might be removed after an event the application G has completed e.g. after a few hours a few day or the like .

For purposes of explanation and not intended to be limiting assume that the GUI is being used by a developer of the contextual service to view analytics relating to the use of one or more of the applications that were utilized during a particular time period or with a particular context. The GUI might display a variety of different analytics and UI elements. In the current example the GUI shows a configuration UI element A a type of use UI element B an average usage UI element C a revenue UI element D and a conversion rate E. In the current example the currently selected application is the stadium application I as indicated by the bolded dashed line displayed around the stadium application UI element.

The configuration UI element A may display configuration information relating to the stadium application I. The types of use UI element B may display data indicating how the application is used. In the current example the types of use UI element B indicates that the score functionality of the stadium application I was used 22 of the time and the stats functionality of the stadium application I was used 58 of the time. In some configurations not shown a user might select one or more options that specify to display data that is associated with one or more users. For instance a user might specify to see analytics on how an application is used in the context of a football game by a single user or a group of users. In other examples a user might specify to see analytics on how the application is used by users not attending a sporting event. The average usage UI element C may display an average number of hours that the stadium application I is used during a time period e.g. daily weekly monthly . In the current example the average usage UI element C is configured to display a number of hours for average weekly use by a customer. In other examples the average usage UI element C might be configured to display how much the application is used in other contexts. The revenue UI element D may display an average revenue generated during a specified time period. In the current example the revenue UI element D shows an amount of revenue generated during one week. The conversion UI element E may display the average conversion rate for an application that may be presented to a user for use.

In some examples all or a portion of the different UI elements might be selected to obtain additional information or configure different options. A user might select one of the UI elements shown in the applications section to change the currently selected application.

A user might also be able to customize the GUI by selecting the customize UI element F. In response to selecting the customize UI element F a user may then be prompted to select the different information that they would like to include in the display of the GUI . For example a user may select from a list or some other UI element or input method the analytics that they would like displayed. In another example the user may select how the plan analytics is to be displayed. For example the user may request to have the plan analytics displayed as raw data as a graphical representation e.g. tables charts graphs or in some other format. A user may also request to have historical information displayed in the GUI . For example a user may request to see a time series display of the usage of the application or some other data.

The information presented in the GUI might also be downloaded for later use. As illustrated a user may select the download UI element G to download the information to a local data store a network data store or to another location. The analytics may be downloaded in one or more formats. For example a user may download all or a portion of the customer support information as a text file a spreadsheet file a word processing file or some other file.

The implementation of the various components described herein is a matter of choice dependent on the performance and other requirements of the computing system. Accordingly the logical operations described herein are referred to variously as operations structural devices acts or modules. These operations structural devices acts and modules may be implemented in software in firmware in special purpose digital logic and any combination thereof. It should also be appreciated that more or fewer operations may be performed than shown in the FIGS. and described herein. These operations may also be performed in parallel or in a different order than those described herein.

At the context data is provided to the contextual service. As discussed above the context data may be provided by the client context manager operating on the computing device to the contextual service or might be provided using some other mechanism. In some examples the context data is provided to the contextual service and may be updated periodically or in response to some event or condition. In other examples the context data might be provided to the contextual service when a network connection is established and or at periodic times.

At data is received that identifies relevant applications to utilize. As discussed above the data that is received may include identifying data that identifies the relevant applications . In other examples the data might include the application itself or the data might include application data provided by the one or more of the applications .

At the context data is provided to the applications identified to be relevant. As discussed above context data might be provided to all or a portion of the applications identified to be relevant. In some examples the contextual manager operating within the contextual service identifies the most relevant applications and provides the context data received from the computing device to those applications .

At application data is received from the applications . As discussed above the application data that is received may be selected by the applications themselves. Instead of the context manager requesting specific types of data from an application the contextual service allows the application to select the application data to provide based on the context data provided the computing device .

At the application data to provide to is selected. As discussed above the application data received from the relevant applications might include duplicate data as well as other data that might not be relevant to the current context. In some examples the context manager removes duplicate data from the application data prioritizes portions of the application data and formats the application data to be provided. In some examples the application data is formatted to be provided to the user. In other examples the application data is formatted to be provided to another application and or computing device .

At the selected data is provided. As discussed above the selected data may be provided in a user interface that provides a common UI regardless of what applications are being utilized by the contextual service . In other examples the user interface may be the native interface provided by the application or the applications that are relevant to the context data . In other examples the selected data is provided in a format useable by the computing device .

At the applications register with the contextual service . As discussed above different applications may register with the contextual service to be activated in response to different contexts that may be associated with a user. Some applications may register to be activated in response to one or more different conditions e.g. specified location at a specified time . As discussed above in some configurations the contextual service may provide data to unregistered applications.

At the contextual service registers the applications. As discussed above after receiving a registration request the contextual service registers the applications such that the registered applications are activated in response to the specified conditions.

At the application to utilize is determined. As discussed above the contextual service may be used to determine one or more applications that might be utilized by the user associated with the context data . In some configurations the contextual service presents the UI to a user with the applications that have registered for the context data . The UI may then be used by the user to receive a selection of at least one of the applications to be utilized. In other examples the UI may not be presented to receive a selection of an application . For instance the contextual service may select one or more of the applications using the context manager A. As discussed above the context manager A may predict whether an application is likely to be utilized by the user using a machine learning mechanism or some other mechanism. At the application is installed on the computing device when determined. As discussed above the application may be installed on the computing device when the selected application is currently not available on the computing device.

At the application is activated. As discussed above the client context manager may cause the application to be activated on a computing device . In some examples the application might be launched on the computing device for use by the user. In other examples the application might be launched and run on a remote computing device in a service provider network with the application data being streamed to the user device.

At the application may be removed from the computing device when determined. As discussed above the application might be removed when a determination is made by the contextual service that the application is not likely to be utilized by the user in the future. In some cases the application is removed after some period of time or in response to some other condition e.g. after the context changes .

At the application to utilize is determined. As discussed above the contextual service may be used to determine one or more applications that might be utilized by the user associated with the context data . In some configurations the contextual service presents the UI to a user with the applications that have registered for the context data . In other examples the contextual service uses the context data to determine relevant applications that are available from the electronic marketplace . The UI may then be used by the user to receive a selection of at least one of the applications to be utilized.

At the application is activated. As discussed above the application may be executed within the application execution service or on some other computing device.

At the application data is provided. As discussed above the context manager A may provide the application data received from the application execution service to the client context manager operating on the computing device . The application data might be provided to the user or used by some other application or computing device such as a smart thermostat lighting system alarm system car dishwasher washing machine dryer refrigerator oven some other home automation system and the like.

At the received application data may be used to update the context data . As discussed above the application data received from the first application may provide additional contextual information relating to the current context. In some examples the application data received from the first application may not be related to the current context. In this case the contextual service does not update the context data .

At the application data received from the first application and or the updated context data is provided to one or more other applications . As discussed above the contextual service may provide at least a portion of the application data that is related to the custom event to the applications that registered to receive notifications of the custom event. In some configurations the contextual service provides the updated context data to each of the other applications that are relevant to the current context. As also discussed the application data might be provided to another computing device and used to control an operation of that device. For instance the application data may be provided to a thermostat and used by the application utilized by the thermostat to change a temperature setting.

At updated application data is received from the other applications. As discussed above the applications determine what data to provide to the contextual service . As such the updated context data provided by the contextual service may cause the application to provide different application data . In some examples the updated context data may be received from another computing device such as from a thermostat lighting system alarm system car dishwasher washing machine dryer refrigerator oven some other home automation system and the like.

At the application data to provide to the user may be selected using customer preferences. As discussed above the customer preferences may be determined from preferences specified in one or more customer profiles or might be determined from historical data associated with the user. For example it may be determined that the user has previously selected certain application data or another application over other application data or other applications . The customer preferences might also be determined from explicit settings that may be located within a customer profile or some other memory.

At the duplicate data from the selected application data is removed. As discussed above the application data that is received from the different applications may include data that is duplicated or is similar to each other.

At the application data is formatted for display in the user interface. As discussed above the context manager may format the data to be provided within a common user interface such that users are not distracted by the use of different user interfaces associated with each of the different applications.

The computing resources provided by the service provider network may include various types of resources such as data processing resources data storage resources networking resources data communication resources and the like. Each type of computing resource may be general purpose or may be available in a number of specific configurations. For example and as will be described in greater detail below data processing resources may be available as virtual machine instances in a number of different configurations. The virtual machine instances may be configured to execute applications including Web servers application servers media servers database servers and other types of applications. Data storage resources may include file storage devices block storage devices and the like. Each type or configuration of a virtual machine instance of a computing resource may be available in different sizes such as large resources consisting of many processors large amounts of memory and or large storage capacity and small resources consisting of fewer processors smaller amounts of memory and or smaller storage capacity.

The computing resources provided by service provider network are enabled in one implementation by one or more data centers A N which may be referred to herein singularly as a data center or collectively as the data centers . The data centers are facilities utilized to house and operate computer systems and associated components. The data centers typically include redundant and backup power communications cooling and security systems. The data centers might also be located in geographically disparate locations. One illustrative configuration for a data center that implements some or all of the concepts and technologies disclosed herein will be described below with regard to .

The users and customers of service provider network may access the computing resources provided by the data centers over a suitable data communications network such as a Wide Area Network WAN as illustrated by network . Although a WAN might be used it should be appreciated that a local area network LAN the Internet or any other networking topology known in the art that connects the data centers to the computing devices may be utilized. It should also be appreciated that combinations of such networks might also be utilized.

In one example some of the computing resources are virtual machine instances. As known in the art a virtual machine instance is an instance of a software implementation of a machine i.e. a computer that executes programs like a physical machine. Each of the server computers may be configured to execute an instance manager not shown capable of instantiating and managing computing resources and instances of computing resources. In the case of virtual machine instances for example the instance manager might be a hypervisor or another type of program configured to enable the execution of multiple virtual machine instances on a single server computer for example.

It should be appreciated that although the examples disclosed herein are described primarily in the context of virtual machine instances other types computing resources can be utilized with the concepts and technologies disclosed herein. For instance the technologies disclosed herein might be utilized with hardware resources data storage resources data communications resources networking resources database resources and with other types of computing resources.

The data center shown in also includes a server computer F reserved for executing software components for managing the operation of the data center the server computers virtual machine instances and other resources within the service provider network . The server computer F might also execute the context manager A and include the data store A. Details regarding the operation of each of these components has been provided above. In this regard it should be appreciated that while these components are illustrated as executing within service provider network computing systems that are external to service provider network might also be utilized to execute some or all of these components. Other configurations might also be utilized.

In the example data center shown in an appropriate local area network LAN is utilized to interconnect the server computers A E and the server computer F. The LAN is also connected to the network illustrated in . It should be appreciated that the configuration and network topology illustrated in has been greatly simplified and that many more computing systems networks and networking devices may be utilized to interconnect the various computing systems disclosed herein. Appropriate load balancing devices or software modules might also be utilized for balancing a load between each of the data centers A N between each of the server computers A F in each data center and between virtual machine instances and other types of computing resources provided by the service provider network .

It should be appreciated that the data center described in is merely illustrative and that other implementations might also be utilized. Additionally it should be appreciated that the functionality provided by these components might be implemented in software hardware or a combination of software and hardware. Other implementations should be apparent to those skilled in the art.

The computer includes a baseboard or motherboard which is a printed circuit board to which a multitude of components or devices may be connected by way of a system bus or other electrical communication paths. In one illustrative example one or more central processing units CPUs operate in conjunction with a chipset . The CPUs may be standard programmable processors that perform arithmetic and logical operations necessary for the operation of the computer .

The CPUs perform operations by transitioning from one discrete physical state to the next through the manipulation of switching elements that differentiate between and change these states. Switching elements may generally include electronic circuits that maintain one of two binary states such as flip flops and electronic circuits that provide an output state based on the logical combination of the states of one or more other switching elements such as logic gates. These basic switching elements may be combined to create more complex logic circuits including registers adders subtractors arithmetic logic units floating point units and the like.

The chipset provides an interface between the CPUs and the remainder of the components and devices on the baseboard . The chipset may provide an interface to a RAM used as the main memory in the computer . The chipset may further provide an interface to a computer readable storage medium such as a read only memory ROM or non volatile RAM NVRAM for storing basic routines that help to startup the computer and to transfer information between the various components and devices. The ROM or NVRAM may also store other software components necessary for the operation of the computer in accordance with the examples described herein.

The computer may operate in a networked environment using logical connections to remote computing devices and computer systems through a network such as the local area network . The chipset may include functionality for providing network connectivity through a network interface controller NIC such as a gigabit Ethernet adapter. The NIC is capable of connecting the computer to other computing devices over the local area network . It should be appreciated that multiple NICs may be present in the computer connecting the computer to other types of networks and remote computer systems.

The computer may be connected to a data store such as the data store that provides non volatile storage for the computer. The data store may store system programs application programs other program modules and data which have been described in greater detail herein. The data store may be connected to the computer through a storage controller connected to the chipset . The data store may consist of one or more physical storage units. The storage controller may interface with the physical storage units through a serial attached SCSI SAS interface a serial advanced technology attachment SATA interface a fiber channel FC interface or other type of interface for physically connecting and transferring data between computers and physical storage units.

The computer may store data on the data store by transforming the physical state of the physical storage units to reflect the information being stored. The specific transformation of physical state may depend on various factors in different implementations of this description. Examples of such factors may include but are not limited to the technology used to implement the physical storage units whether the data store is characterized as primary or secondary storage and the like.

For example the computer may store information to the data store by issuing instructions through the storage controller to alter the magnetic characteristics of a particular location within a magnetic disk drive unit the reflective or refractive characteristics of a particular location in an optical storage unit or the electrical characteristics of a particular capacitor transistor or other discrete component in a solid state storage unit. Other transformations of physical media are possible without departing from the scope and spirit of the present description with the foregoing examples provided only to facilitate this description. The computer may further read information from the data store by detecting the physical states or characteristics of one or more particular locations within the physical storage units.

In addition to the data store described above the computer may have access to other computer readable storage media to store and retrieve information such as program modules data structures or other data. It should be appreciated by those skilled in the art that computer readable storage media is any available media that provides for the non transitory storage of data and that may be accessed by the computer .

By way of example and not limitation computer readable storage media may include volatile and non volatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology. Computer readable storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM erasable programmable ROM EPROM electrically erasable programmable ROM EEPROM flash memory or other solid state memory technology compact disc ROM CD ROM digital versatile disk DVD high definition DVD HD DVD BLU RAY or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that can be used to store the desired information in a non transitory fashion.

The data store may store an operating system utilized to control the operation of the computer . According to one example the operating system comprises the LINUX operating system. According to another example the operating system comprises the WINDOWS SERVER operating system from MICROSOFT Corporation. According to further examples the operating system may comprise the UNIX operating system or the ANDROID operating system. It should be appreciated that other operating systems may also be utilized. The data store may store other system or application programs and data utilized by the computer such as components that include the context manager the application and or any of the other software components and data described above. The data store might also store other programs and data not specifically identified herein.

In one example the data store or other computer readable storage media is encoded with computer executable instructions which when loaded into the computer transform the computer from a general purpose computing system into a special purpose computer capable of implementing the examples described herein. These computer executable instructions transform the computer by specifying how the CPUs transition between states as described above. According to one example the computer has access to computer readable storage media storing computer executable instructions which when executed by the computer perform the various routines described above with regard to . The computer might also include computer readable storage media for performing any of the other computer implemented operations described herein.

The computer may also include one or more input output controllers for receiving and processing input from a number of input devices such as a keyboard a mouse a touchpad a touch screen an electronic stylus or other type of input device. Similarly the input output controller may provide output to a display such as a computer monitor a flat panel display a digital projector a printer a plotter or other type of output device. It will be appreciated that the computer may not include all of the components shown in may include other components that are not explicitly shown in or may utilize an architecture completely different than that shown in .

Based on the foregoing it should be appreciated that technologies for using a context sensitive framework to identify relevant applications to a current context and to provide data received from the relevant applications to a user have been presented herein. Moreover although the subject matter presented herein has been described in language specific to computer structural features methodological acts and computer readable media it is to be understood that the invention defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features acts or media described herein. Rather the specific features acts and media are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

The subject matter described above is provided by way of illustration only and should not be construed as limiting. Furthermore the claimed subject matter is not limited to implementations that solve any or all disadvantages noted in any part of this disclosure. Various modifications and changes may be made to the subject matter described herein without following the example examples and applications illustrated and described and without departing from the true spirit and scope of the present invention which is set forth in the following claims.

