---

title: Techniques for mobile device charging using robotic devices
abstract: A method, apparatus, and/or system for providing an action with respect to a mobile device using a robotic device that tracks the user and that interacts with a charging management engine. In accordance with at least one embodiment, a request to perform an action with respect to an electronic device is received. Information may be sent to one or more robotic devices within a proximity of the electronic device. A robotic device of the one or more robotic devices may be selected to perform the action. An indication may be received from the robotic device that indicates that the user has interacted with the robotic device. Instructions may be sent to the robotic device to perform the action with respect to the electronic device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09492922&OS=09492922&RS=09492922
owner: Amazon Technologies, Inc.
number: 09492922
owner_city: Seattle
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150330
---
The present disclosure is related to and incorporates by reference for all purposes the full disclosure of co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 673 764 filed concurrently herewith entitled TECHNIQUES FOR MOBILE DEVICE CHARGING USING ROBOTIC DEVICES .

The general public uses electronic mobile devices such as cell phones tablets laptops or the like to perform a myriad of daily tasks. It can be quite inconvenient to a user when one of these devices runs out of battery power. This is especially true if the user does not have an available charging adapter for the device. Users may find themselves asking friends or even strangers to borrow a charging adapter. In some cases there may not be any charging ports or power outlets in the immediate vicinity making charging the device even more cumbersome. Even in cases where charging stations ports or outlets are available a user may have to remain close to the device. For example charging a phone in a public place may require the user to remain in the general area of the phone to avoid theft. For the aforementioned reasons conventional techniques can make it difficult to charge electronic devices in a public or semi public space.

In the following description various embodiments of the present disclosure will be described. For purposes of explanation specific configurations and details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the embodiments. However it will also be apparent to one skilled in the art that the embodiments may be practiced without the specific details. Furthermore well known features may be omitted or simplified in order not to obscure the embodiment being described.

Techniques described herein are directed to a charging management system that interacts with a robotic device to provide charging capabilities to a mobile device. In at least one example a user may enter a public or semi public space e.g. an airport a shopping center a health care center a hotel a place of business or an educational institution . While at for instance an airport the user s mobile phone may drop under a threshold of remaining battery power e.g. 10 . The user may not have a charging cable with him or her and or there may not be an electrical outlet nearby. Using a charging application on his or her mobile electronic device e.g. a smartphone the user may request that a robotic device hereinafter referred to as a robot come charge his or her phone. In the following disclosure a robot is meant to include an autonomous or semi autonomous electro mechanical device that is guided by a computer program and or electronic circuitry. The request may include at least one of a location of the mobile electronic device a type of the mobile electronic device a charge level of the mobile electronic device or a request time. The request may be received wirelessly by a charging management system that manages mobile device charging via robots.

In response to the request the charging management system may select a robot from a number of robots and communicate instructions to the robot to cause the robot to travel to the location of the user. Upon arriving at the user s location the robot may be instructed by the charging management system to present the user with a number of user activities via a user interface e.g. a touchscreen display physical buttons located on the robot . User activities as used herein is meant to refer to actions conducted by the user via the robot including but is not limited to viewing an advertisement participating in a survey participating in a crowd sourcing activity that uses human intelligence to perform a task that a computer is incapable of performing browsing for an item and or conducting a purchase of the item from an electronic marketplace using the robot to charge the electronic device e.g. by attaching the electronic device to a port or other portion of the robotic device and or using an interface provided by the robot to pay a fee for charging the user s mobile electronic device or the like. The user may select a user activity option corresponding to the user activity via the user interface and proceed with conducting various user interactions e.g. further user interface selections plugging an electronic device into a charging port of the charging robot or the like with the robot related to the selected user activity. In some cases the user may select more than one user activity option. The user may participate in the selected user activity in exchange for charging his or her mobile electronic device and or for entertainment purposes. As used herein charge or charging refers to charging of an electronic device by a charging robot charge or charging is not intended to refer to a payment of a fee unless specified otherwise. As an overview an item may be a product a sellable unit a good or a service. As used herein an electronic marketplace includes a computer facilitated market for participants e.g. buyers and sellers to conduct transactions including commercial and or financial transactions. A user may have an account with the charging management system and or the electronic marketplace and may provide credentials that permit the user to utilize the charging features of the robot. Upon completion of at least a portion of the user activity the charging management system may instruct the robot to provide an interface e.g. a cable and or a port to a power source e.g. a battery with which the robot is equipped to charge the user s mobile electronic device for a predetermined amount of time e.g. 30 minutes . Upon completion of the predetermined charging time the robot may cease charging automatically or be instructed by the user and or the charging management system to cease charging.

As an illustrative example a user may arrive at an airport to catch a flight. Once there his laptop may run low on battery power. As a result of the battery power falling below a threshold amount an application on the laptop may transmit a charging request to the charging management system responsible for managing mobile device charging by charging robots in the airport. A charging request as used herein may include but is not limited to a location of an electronic device information associated with the electronic device e.g. device features device configuration etc. a charging duration an item request e.g. an item for purchase accessible to the charging robot and a start time. A prediction that the battery level will fall below a threshold within a period of time may also trigger transmission of the charging request. In a non limiting example the prediction may be determined based on the user s travel itinerary. For example the user s travel itinerary may indicate that the user is about to embark on a 5 hour flight however the user may only have 3 hours of battery life remaining Electronic travel itinerary information may be obtained via an application running on the laptop via user input of the itinerary information or any suitable method for obtaining such information. Given a determination that the remaining battery life is less than the expected flight time the application on the laptop may transmit a charging request to the charging management system. The charging request may be actively placed by the user or may be transmitted automatically based on a setting configuration of the laptop e.g. without input from the user .

The charging management system may transmit the charging request to a number of robots at least one of which may be selected to assist the user in charging the user s laptop. The robots may communicate with one another directly or through the charging management system to select the robot that is best suited e.g. is not currently busy fulfilling another charging request has a requisite amount of battery power available to fulfill at least a threshold amount of the charging request is located within a threshold proximity to the user is located at a location that is a shortest path to the user with respect to other robots or the like to assist the user and or charge the user s mobile device. Alternatively the charging management device selects the robot best suited to assist the user. In some embodiments the robot nearest the user is selected due to its proximity to the user. In other embodiments the robot having the most battery power in reserve is selected. Alternatively a robot that does not have the most battery power but at least enough batter power to fulfill the charging request may be selected. In yet other embodiments some robots charge a same or different set of electronic devices as other robots. Accordingly the robots that charge a set of electronic devices of which the laptop is a member may be first identified. The robot that is nearest the user may then be selected from the robots that charge such electronic devices.

Assuming the nearest robot is best suited to charge the user s laptop the nearest robot may make its way to the user based on the location of the laptop that was included in the charging request. The robot may utilize various sensors to navigate through the airport to the location of the laptop. Once there the robot may be utilized to charge the user s laptop. As mentioned above the robot may present a power source interface to which the user can attach his or her own charging adaptor. However in other embodiments the robot may carry in a compartment located on the robot a number of charging adaptors. The user may then utilize one of the adaptors to charge his or her laptop directly from the robot or from a nearby power source e.g. a nearby electrical outlet . The user may then return the adaptor to the same or different robot or to a return station. Alternatively for a fee the user may keep the adaptor and submit payment for the fee via the application referenced above or via the robot. In yet another example the adaptor is configured for a single use and thus may be disposed of in a recycling or other disposal container.

In some embodiments the user may be assessed a fee for utilizing the robot to charge his or her mobile electronic device and may submit payment of the fee via the application referenced above or via the robot. However in at least one embodiment the fee may be waived or otherwise reduced or credited in exchange for conducting a user interaction with the robot and or the application referenced above. For example the fee may be waived or reduced in exchange for viewing an advertisement participating in a survey etc. via the user interface e.g. touchscreen display of the robot. In some embodiments once the user interaction is concluded and the fee assessed waived or at another suitable time the robot may then be utilized to charge the user s mobile electronic device.

As another example a user may arrive at a shopping center. Once there the user s tablet PC may drop below a threshold amount of remaining battery power. The user may issue a charging request to the charging management system responsible for managing mobile charging by robots at the shopping center. A robot may be sent to the user as described in the examples above. In one example the user may choose to take part in a survey presented via a touchscreen display of the robot in exchange for 30 minutes of charging time. Once the survey is completed the user may plug her tablet PC into the robot to begin charging the tablet PC. The robot may then alert the charging management system that charging of the tablet PC has commenced. In at least one embodiment the charging management system may respond to the robot with instructions to follow the user if the user moves to another location s at a threshold distance for the duration of the charging time or for another suitable period of time. The robot may follow the user at a threshold distance or at approximately a threshold distance away.

Referring now to the drawings in which like reference numerals represent like parts is a pictorial diagram illustrating an example environment suitable for implementing aspects of a charging management system in accordance with at least one embodiment. A user upon occupying a portion of public space managed by charging management system may utilize for example an electronic device e.g. tablet PC on network .

In at least one example the user notices that her electronic device in this example tablet PC is in need of charging. At such time user may navigate on tablet PC to an application running on tablet PC . Using the application user may request charging from the charging management system . Charging management system in communication via network may determine a charging robot to carry out the user s request.

In some examples the charging management system may be in communication with the user computing devices and or other service providers via the networks or via other network connections. In some examples the networks e.g. the network of may include any one or a combination of many different types of networks such as cable networks the Internet wireless networks cellular networks and other private and or public networks. While the illustrated example represents the users accessing the charging management system over the networks the described techniques may equally apply in instances where the users interact with the charging management system via the one or more user computing devices over a landline phone via a kiosk or in any other suitable manner. It should be appreciated that the described techniques may apply in other client server arrangements e.g. set top boxes etc. as well as in non client server arrangements e.g. locally stored applications peer to peer arrangements etc. .

Client application operating on user computing devices may enable the users to interact with the charging management system such as to access information associated with the robots managed by charging management system and or the electronic devices being charged by the robots. The client application may be capable of handling requests from many users and presenting in response various user interfaces that can be rendered at the user computing devices . For example client application may present information related to charging robots e.g. the charging robot such as location charging capabilities charging capacity item purchase availability user activity availability display information or the like. Client application may present such information to the users via a graphical user interface as well as process and transmit user interaction information related to actions taken by the user with respect to the graphical user interfaces. The charging management system may cause client application to present any suitable type of network site that supports user interaction.

The user computing devices may be any suitable type of computing device such as but not limited to a mobile phone a smart phone a personal digital assistant PDA a laptop computer a desktop computer a thin client device a tablet PC an electronic book e book reader etc. In some examples the user computing devices may be in communication with the charging management system via the networks or via other network connections. Additionally the user computing devices may be part of a distributed system managed by controlled by or otherwise part of the charging management system .

In one illustrative configuration the user computing devices may include at least one memory and one or more processing units or processor s . The processor s may be implemented as appropriate in hardware firmware or as hardware or firmware implementing computer executable instructions executed by hardware firmware or as hardware or firmware executing computer executable or machine executable instructions written in any suitable programming language to perform the various functions described.

The memory may store program instructions that are loadable and executable on the processor s as well as data generated during the execution of these programs. Depending on the configuration and type of user computing device the memory may be volatile such as random access memory RAM and or non volatile such as read only memory ROM flash memory etc. . The user computing devices may also include additional removable storage and or non removable storage including but not limited to magnetic storage optical disks and or tape storage. The disk drives and their associated non transitory computer readable media may provide non volatile storage of computer readable instructions data structures program modules and other data for the computing devices. In some implementations the memory may include multiple different types of memory such as static random access memory SRAM dynamic random access memory DRAM or ROM.

Turning to the contents of the memory in more detail the memory may include an operating system and one or more application programs modules or services for implementing the features disclosed herein including the client application or dedicated applications e.g. smart phone applications tablet applications etc. . The client application may receive store and or display a network page or other interface for interacting with the charging management system . Memory of the charging management system may store access credentials and or other user information such as but not limited to user IDs passwords one or more images radio frequency identification information and or other user information. In some examples the user information may include information for authenticating an account access request such as but not limited to a device ID a cookie an IP address a location a bar code 2 or 3 dimensional an image an electronic user code e.g. that can be stored in an a radio frequency ID tag or the like.

Returning to the charging management system in one illustrative configuration a device included in the charging management system may include at least one memory and one or more processing units or processor s . The processor s may be implemented as appropriate in hardware firmware or as hardware or firmware implementing computer executable instructions executed by hardware firmware or as hardware or firmware executing computer executable or machine executable instructions written in any suitable programming language to perform the various functions described.

The memory may store specific computer executable instructions that are loadable and executable on the processor s as well as data generated during the execution of these instructions. Depending on the configuration of the charging management system the memory may be volatile such as RAM and or non volatile such as ROM flash memory etc. . Devices of the charging management system may also include additional storage which may include removable storage and or non removable storage. The additional storage may include but is not limited to magnetic storage optical disks and or tape storage. The disk drives and their associated non transitory computer readable media may provide non volatile storage of computer readable instructions data structures program modules and other data for the devices of the charging management system . In some implementations the memory may include multiple different types of memory such as SRAM DRAM or ROM.

The memory the additional storage both removable and non removable are all examples of non transitory computer readable storage media. For example computer readable storage media may include volatile or non volatile removable or non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. The memory and the additional storage are all examples of computer storage media. Additional types of non transitory computer readable storage media may include but are not limited to PRAM SRAM DRAM RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by the charging management system . Combinations of any of the above should also be included within the scope of non transitory computer readable media.

Devices of the charging management system may also contain communications connection s that allow communication with a stored database another computing device or server user terminals and or other devices on the networks . Devices of the charging management system may also include I O device s such as a keyboard a mouse a pen a voice input device a touch input device a display speakers a printer etc.

As will be discussed in further detail in the memory may include an operating system one or more data stores and or one or more application programs modules or services for implementing the features disclosed herein including the charging management engine .

The charging robot is shown comprising hardware elements that can be electrically coupled via a bus or may otherwise be in communication as appropriate . The hardware elements may include a processing unit s which can include without limitation one or more processors which may in some embodiments include digital signal processors DSPs application specific integrated circuits ASICs and or the like and or other processing units which can perform one or more of the methods described herein.

The charging robot might also include a wireless communication interface which can include without limitation a modem a network card an infrared communication device a wireless communication device and or a chipset such as a Bluetooth device an IEEE 802.11 device an IEEE 802.15.4 device a Wi Fi device a WiMax device cellular communication facilities etc. and or the like. The wireless communication interface may permit data to be exchanged with a network wireless access points other computer systems and or any other electronic devices described herein. The communication can be carried out via one or more wireless communication antenna s that send and or receive wireless signals . In at least one embodiment charging robot may communicate with charging management system via the wireless communication interface .

Depending on desired functionality the wireless communication interface can include separate transceivers to communicate with base transceiver stations e.g. base transceiver stations of a cellular network and access points. These different data networks can include an Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiple Access OFDMA Code Divisional Multiple Access CDMA Global System for Mobile Communications GSM and or other types of networks.

The charging robot can further include sensor s . Such sensors can include without limitation one or more accelerometer s and or gyroscope s infra red device s laser s magnetic device s imaging device s e.g. camera s radio frequency identification RFID device s sonar device s or the like. At least a subset of the sensor s can provide readings used by charging robot for navigation user authentication user interaction or image detection as described herein. In at least one example sensor s of charging robot may be used to collect authentication data for authenticating a user e.g. via a retina scan via finger print scan via an image of the user via a radio frequency or the like . Sensor s may also be used to collect interaction data indicating a user interaction with the charging robot e.g. physical and or audible interaction including motions made by the user and or sounds made by the user. . Sensors may also be used to collect user navigation data for obtaining a location of the user e.g. GPS coordinates sonar reading infra red readings etc. . Sensor s may be used to collect device navigation data for obtaining a location of the charging robot . Sensor s may also be used to identify one or more obstacles falling within a threshold distance of a traversal path e.g. a sequence of headings between two locations of the charging robot . In accordance with at least one embodiment sensor s may be used by the charging management system to track or determine the location of the user and or to track or determine the location of the robotic device. Sensor data collected by sensor s may be utilized by the charging management system when determining a particular charging robot e.g. the charging robot to select to fulfill a charging request when determining a traversal path for the charging robot or when causing the charging robot to maintain a threshold distance with the user e.g. to follow the user .

Embodiments of charging robot may also include a Global Positioning System GPS receiver capable of receiving signals from one or more GPS satellites using a GPS antenna . Such positioning can be utilized to complement and or incorporate the techniques described herein. The GPS receiver can receive satellite data that can be transmitted via wireless communications interface or stored in memory . The satellite data can be information sufficient to allow the GPS receiver to determine a geographic location of the charging robot based on the satellite data. It can be noted that as used herein a GPS may include any combination of one or more global and or regional navigation satellite systems and or augmentation systems and GPS signals may include GPS or GPS like signals. The charging robot may further include or be in communication with a memory . The memory is an example of a non transitory computer readable storage media. In at least one example non transitory computer readable storage media include volatile or non volatile removable or non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Additional types of non transitory computer readable storage media that may be included in the charging robot may include but are not limited to PRAM SRAM DRAM RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by the charging robot . Combinations of any of the above should also be included within the scope of non transitory computer readable media. Memory can further be used to store sensor data for any combination of sensors in data store . Additionally or alternatively memory may be used to store user information obtained via a user interface s of the charging robot .

Turning to the contents of the memory in more detail the memory in at least one embodiment includes an operating system and one or more application programs modules or services for implementing the features of the charging robot or dedicated applications. In at least one example embodiment the charging robot receives stores and or displays content and presents the user interface s for interacting with the charging management system of and or one or more users e.g. users of . Additionally the memory may store access credentials and or other user information such as but not limited to user IDs passwords one or more images radio frequency identification information and or other user information. In some examples the user information includes information for authenticating an account access request such as but not limited to a device ID a cookie an IP address a location an image an RFID code or the like. The memory of the charging robot also can include device drivers executable libraries application programs computer programs and or other code that may be designed to implement methods and or configure systems as described herein.

The charging robot may also include a user interface s . Components of the user interface s may include display s microphone s audio component s tactile component s or keyboard s . The user interface s may enable a user e.g. user of to interact with the charging robot and or the charging management system of . In one example tactile component is may include a refreshable braille display and or braille keyboard to provide the user an interface with which to read braille. Display s may include a monitor a touchscreen display device a projector or any suitable device for visually displaying information to a user.

The charging robot may also include power source s . In at least one embodiment charging robot may operate under battery control. For example the power source s may include any combination of a flow battery a fuel cell battery a lead acid battery a lithium air battery a lithium ion battery a nickel based battery a polymer based battery a potassium based battery a silicon based battery a silver based battery a sodium based battery and or any suitable rechargeable battery. In accordance with at least one embodiment the charging robot includes charging port s . Charging port s may be configured to charge a number of electronic devices. For example charging port s may include any suitable combination of one or more USB charging ports one or more inductive couplers one or more capacitive couplers one or more magneto dynamic couplers one or more A C outlets or any suitable port s outlet s configured to receive one end of a charging cable utilized to charge an electronic device. The charging robot can provide A C power through the one or more A C outlets even though it is not connected to an A C source by way of a power inverter that may convert the D C power from the power source s to A C power for the charging port s . In some embodiments the power source s and or charging port s of the charging robot are configured to provide rapid charging of the electronic device being charged. The electronic device being charged may include any combination of batteries such as those described above. The charging port s may transfer electrical current from the power source s to one or more batteries located on an electronic device while the electronic device is connected to the robot via the charging port s e.g. via a USB cable . Additionally or alternatively the charging port s may include a charging pad or other suitable wireless power transfer device capable of wirelessly transferring electrical power from the power source s to a battery located on an electronic device e.g. via capacitive couplers via electromagnetic inductive couplers via inductive couplers etc. . Thus the battery located on the electronic device may be charged merely by being located within a threshold proximity of the charging port s .

In accordance with at least one embodiment charging robot includes a software module control module for controlling components of drive unit . In at least one example control module may be included in memory or as a separate module. Control module may execute operations to control various motors and or actuators contained in drive unit located on charging robot . Motors and actuators are both intended to refer to a device that converts energy e.g. electrical into physical motion. Typically motors refer to devices that convert energy into linear motion e.g. cause the robot to move to a different location while actuators typically convert energy into rotational motion e.g. allow a robot hand to rotate on an axis for example to rotate a doorknob . Such motors and or actuators contained in drive unit may be responsible for movement of the robot. Control module may execute operations that coordinate movement between various motors and actuators in order to propel halt or otherwise move various portions of the robot in a coordinated manner e.g. move the robot to another location move an appendage of the robot rotate a head etc. . Control module may execute operations to control various functions of charging robot such as those functions pertaining to any suitable component or module described in .

In accordance with at least one embodiment charging robot includes a clock . Clock may be used to generate a time stamp for each of the data observations generated by the sensor s . The time stamps may be used by the processing unit s in the analysis of sensor data and facilitate pattern recognition and improved capacity for determining the operational environment of the charging robot . The clock may be used to ascertain a time at which the charging port s are disabled. The clock can also be used by the processing units for alarms and other standard clock functions.

In the embodiment shown in the drawings a user profile data store a map data store a charging request data store an inventory data store an advertisement data store and a survey data store are shown although data can be maintained derived or otherwise accessed from various data stores either remotely or locally to achieve the functions described herein. The charging management engine shown in includes various modules such as a graphical user interface the application programming interface content selection engine a robot coordination manager a charging request manager a payment engine a display manager a tracking manager and an authentication engine . Some functions of the modules and are described below. However for the benefit of the reader a brief non limiting description of each of the modules is provided in the following paragraphs.

In accordance with at least one embodiment a process is enabled for utilizing charging management system . For example a user e.g. user of may utilize user device e.g. user device s of to interact via network e.g. network s of with charging management system to receive a charging request. As part of a charging management process or at any suitable time a charging request may be received by the charging management engine via application programming interface and graphical user interface both components of the charging management engine . It should be appreciated that the networks may be the same or similar as the networks described in connection with . Application programming interface and or graphical user interface may be utilized in any suitable example described herein as a means for receiving information by the charging management engine .

In accordance with at least one embodiment charging request manager a component of the charging management engine receives a charging request. A charging request may include information including but not limited to any suitable combination of information associated with the user e.g. user ID a location associated with the user an electronic device type a charging level associated with the electronic device a duration a distance a traversal path or a request time. Upon receipt of such a charging request charging request manager may store the charging request in charging request data store which stores such change requests. In at least one example charging request manager determines an order with which to process stored change requests. This order may be based at least in part on a time at which the charging request was received. Additionally or alternatively the order may be based at least in part on the charging level associated with the electronic device. Upon processing a charging request charging request manager may communicate the charging request to content selection engine .

In accordance with at least one embodiment robot coordination manager a component of the charging management engine sends via the application programming interface information related to the charging request to one or more charging robots e.g. the charging robot of . Additionally or alternatively robot coordination manager may receive via application programming interface information from one or more charging robots. For example upon receiving a charging request from the charging request manager robot coordination manager may transmit information related to the charging request to a charging robot . Charging robot may respond with an indication of whether it is able to process the charging request. Charging robot may determine its ability to process the charging request based at least in part on the charging level of the electronic device and or an amount of charge requested as indicated in the charging request. For example if the charging level indicates that the electronic device is in need of a charge amount that exceeds an amount the charging robot is currently able to provide the charging robot may respond with an indication that it is not the best suited charging robot to process the charging request. For example the charging robot may currently have a battery level that aside from operating the charging robot itself is insufficient to charge a battery of the electronic device up to a threshold amount of the electronic device battery s full capacity or to the requested amount of charge. Such threshold may be user or developer specified and or determined by one or more rules of the charging management engine .

In accordance with at least one embodiment robot coordination manager may receive a number of responses from one or more charging robots. Upon receipt of a response from the one or more charging robots Robot coordination manager may select a particular charging robot e.g. the charging robot with which to carry out the charging request. While communicating with a one or more charging robots robot coordination manager may receive information associated with user input collected by the charging robot display data to present on the charging robot sensor data received from the charging robot navigation information transmitted to and received from the charging robot or any suitable information capable of being exchanged with the one or more charging robots. It should be noted that information may be exchanged between robot coordination manager and the charging robot and or between the robot coordination manager and any suitable component of the charging management engine . As a non limiting example robot coordination manager may communicate payment information of the user e.g. entered via user interface s to payment engine in order to complete a purchasing transaction. As a further example robot coordination manager may communicate information to be displayed on the charging robot to display manager . In yet another example robot coordination manager may communicate locational information related to the robot and or the user to map data store for storage or other suitable processing.

In accordance with at least one embodiment robot coordination manager may coordinate movement of one or more charging robots e.g. the charging robot . For example robot coordination manager may utilize a map e.g. an electronic representation of an area obtained from map data store . The map may include data describing an area surrounding the charging robot and or the user e.g. the location of walls egress ingress paths obstacles locations of places and or objects within a map region distances between elements objects places of the map etc. . The robot coordination manager may utilize the map data and sensor data collected from sensor s to identify walls egress ingress routes doors obstacles between the charging robot and the user as the user and or the charging robot change position. In a non limiting example laser s of may be used to determine a location and proximity of a user with respect to the charging robot . Additionally sensor data collected using laser s may be used to determine location and proximity of people and objects other than the user. Sensor data collected by the laser s may be used to determine and or update the charging robots traversal path e.g. a sequence of headings between two locations . The traversal path may be a determined using an initial location of the charging robot and the user and or destination location. Additionally the traversal path may be periodically updated by the robot coordination manager for example based on collected sensor data e.g. indicating a location speed heading etc. of a user . In accordance with at least one embodiment the robot coordination manager may utilize any suitable combination of map data information from one or more charging requests and or sensor data to calculate a traversal path for the charging robot to follow e.g. to travel from an initial location of the charging robot to the location of the user of the charging request .

In accordance with at least one embodiment robot coordination manager may coordinate movement of one or more charging robots e.g. the charging robot using a video feed. For example video feed information may be received by robot coordination manager . Once received the video feed information may be analyzed e.g. utilizing image recognition techniques to identify a user. Based on a map of the surrounding area of the user e.g. an electronic floor plan of an airport a location of the user may be determined by comparing data from the video feed e.g. information of the identified user s surroundings and map data. For example the video feed may depict the user standing next to a merchant store. The merchant store may have a sign that is visible in the video feed. Text recognition techniques may be utilized to analyze the video feed to determine the name of the store. The name of the store may be used to identify a location on the map. Additionally distance may be determined from the video feed by determining a known frame of reference e.g. a sign that is known to be 20 feet away from the device used to capture the video feed . The known frame of reference may be used to compare size of an object e.g. at a particular angle depicted in the video feed. An estimated distance may be computed e.g. by the robot coordination manager based on such a comparison. It should be noted that video feed information may be used separately or in conjunction with sensor data collected by sensor s on the charging robot to track a user and or a robotic device.

In accordance with at least one embodiment content selection engine a component of the charging management engine receives via the application programming interface and robot coordination manager user information from one or more charging robots e.g. the charging robot of . As a non limiting example a user may enter at a graphical user interface on the charging robot user login information related to an electronic marketplace. Upon receipt of such login information the content selection engine may use the login information to interact with user profile data store in order to obtain user profile information with which to determine one or more user activity options to provide to the user. The term user activity options is intended to refer to one or more graphical interface elements that upon selection by the user enable the user to participate in one or more user activities using the robot e.g. viewing an advertisement participating in a survey participating in a human intelligence task browsing for and or conducting a purchase of an item from an electronic marketplace charging an electronic device paying a fee to charge an electronic device or the like . User profile data store may store user profile information associated with a user of an electronic marketplace. Such user profile information may include but is not limited user demographic information past purchase history past viewed items or the like.

As a non limiting example the content selection engine may obtain user profile data from user profile data store using the user login information received from charging robot as discussed above. Content selection engine may utilize user profile data in order to select for example an option to present to the user to view an advertisement e.g. an advertisement featuring an item offered on an electronic marketplace a service a marketing campaign or the like in exchange for charging time with the charging robot . In such cases the content selection engine may interact with advertisement data store that stores a number of electronic advertisements. In at least one example the content selection engine may determine that a number of electronic advertisements exist that are related to an item or an item category of an item that has been previously purchased by the user. In response to the determination the content selection engine may provide the user with the option to view the advertisement in exchange for charging time with the charging robot .

As a further example the content selection engine may interact with inventory data store that stores information related to a number of items in inventory the items being accessible by the charging robot of . Items in this sense may include electronic items e.g. electronic games or tangible goods. The content selection engine may determine that one or more items are accessible by the charging robot and may present the user with the user activity option to purchase one or more items in exchange for charging time with the charging robot . The determination to offer the one or more items in exchange for charging time may further be based on the login information user profile information previously obtained. For example the content selection engine may determine the one or more items to present to the user based on accessibility with respect to the charging robot and or previous purchase information of the user. In at least one example a user may have previously purchased an electronic device from an electronic marketplace. Further a charger for the electronic device may be accessible e.g. current on board the charging robot or accessible by the charging robot to the charging robot . Thus the content selection engine may determine that a user activity option for purchasing the charger may be presented to the user via the charging robot based on the previous purchase information and or the accessibility of the charger with respect to the charging robot .

In other non limiting examples content selection engine may determine one or more surveys stored in survey data store to present to the user as a user activity option. Additionally or alternatively content selection engine may determine a number of possible user activity options based on at least one of user profile data available advertisements available surveys available item inventory accessible to charging robot or a predetermined number of possible user activity options. Predetermined user activity options may include but are not limited to viewing a network page of an electronic marketplace participating in a crowd sourcing activity or the like. Such predetermined user activity options may be selected without consideration to profile information of the user.

In accordance with at least one embodiment display manager a component of the charging management engine causes information to be displayed on the charging robot . For example display manager may receive possible user activity information from content selection engine e.g. survey identifier s advertisement identifier s inventory item identifier s . Display manager may interact with survey data store inventory data store or advertisement data store in order to provide display instructions to communicate user activity options directly to charging robot or alternatively via robot coordination manager .

In accordance with at least one embodiment tracking manager a component of the charging management engine receives via application programming interface sensor data from one or more charging robots e.g. the charging robot of . Sensor data may include any readings taken by one or more of sensor s of . Tracking manager may estimate a user location based on the sensor data. Tracking manager may further communicate via application programming interface or alternatively robot coordination manager data related to the estimated user location.

In accordance with at least one embodiment payment engine a component of the charging management engine receives via application programming interface payment information associated with the user. For example payment engine may receive indication from service provider computers that the user has purchased an item from an electronic marketplace. Additionally or alternatively payment engine may receive information indicating that the user wishes to purchase an item accessible to the charging robot . Payment engine may process payment information in order to complete a purchase or lease.

In accordance with at least one embodiment authentication engine a component of the charging management engine receives via application programming interface authentication information associated with the user. For example authentication engine may receive a radio frequency associated with a RFID device e.g. the RFID device s of . In at least one example authentication engine may receive authentication data in the form of a picture or video captured by for example imaging device s of . Additionally or alternatively authentication engine may receive authentication data from the user via user interface s e.g. user interface s of . The authentication engine may authenticate the user by utilizing information contained in a data store e.g. user profile data store . In at least one example authentication data may be processed using image recognition techniques or audio recognition techniques.

In accordance with at least one embodiment the robotic device includes a variety of features including but not limited to the features described below and or above in connection with . The robotic device may take any variety of forms. For example the robotic device may be a ball robot a cart based robot a multi legged robot a quadruped robot a wheeled robot a modular snake robot a humanoid robot or the like. Moreover the charging robots managed by the charging management system may be the same type or form of robot or may include robots of different types or forms.

In the example depicted in the robotic device is a ball robot. A ball robot as used herein is intended to refer to a mobile robot designed to balance on a single spherical wheel e.g. a ball . Through a single contact point with the ground a ball robot is omnidirectional and thus exceptionally agile maneuverable and organic in motion compared to other ground vehicles. Its spherical wheel enables navigability in narrow and crowded environments. A ball robot works on the same principle as that of an inverted pendulum.

The robotic device may include a touchscreen display e.g. an example of user interface s . The robotic device may further include a number of charging ports e.g. the charging ports of . Additionally the robotic device may include sensor s e.g. one or more of sensor s of . The robotic device may include a storage compartment . Storage compartment may be utilized to house one or more stored items that may be offered to and or purchased by a user. In an illustrative non limiting example stored items include a charging cable an electronic device such as a mobile phone or a stick of gum. In at least one embodiment stored items may include one or more items that may be purchased from an electronic marketplace and or one or more items that may be purchased directly from the charging robot . Thus any suitable item offered for sale or lease may be stored within storage compartment including items that may be purchased leased from the electronic marketplace. Storage compartment may in some cases be locked requiring the user to enter a code via touchscreen display . The robotic device may further include a projector e.g. an example of display s of . Projector may project an electronic advertisement received from charging management system of in accordance with methods described herein.

The robotic device may include a touchscreen display e.g. an example of user interface s . The robotic device may further include a number of charging ports e.g. the charging ports of . Additionally the robotic device may include sensor s e.g. one or more of sensor s of located in this example in handle bar . The robotic device may include storage compartment and storage compartment . The storage compartment may in some cases be configured to store a mobile device while charging. In some cases charging ports may be accessible to the mobile device stored in storage compartment . The storage compartment may be utilized to house one or more stored items . In an illustrative non limiting example stored items include a charging cable an electronic device such as a mobile phone or a stick of gum. Any suitable item offered for sale or lease may be stored within the storage compartment . The storage compartment and the storage compartment may in some cases be locked requiring the user to enter a code via touchscreen display . It should be appreciated that the storage compartment and the storage compartment are illustrative in nature and that such storage compartments may exist in other locations on charging robot .

In accordance with at least one embodiment the robotic device includes a touchscreen display e.g. an example of user interface s . The robotic device may further include a number of charging ports e.g. the charging ports of located within hand . Additionally the robotic device may include sensor s e.g. one or more of sensor s of located in this example in the head piece of charging robot . The robotic device may include a storage compartment . Storage compartment may be utilized to house one or more stored items . In an illustrative non limiting example stored items include similar items as discussed above in connections to stored items of . Storage compartment may in some cases be locked requiring the user to enter a code via touchscreen display . It should be appreciated that storage compartment is illustrative in nature and that such storage compartments may exist in other locations on charging robot .

Additionally the processes may be performed under the control of one or more computer systems configured with executable instructions and may be implemented as code e.g. executable instructions one or more computer programs or one or more applications executing collectively on one or more processors by hardware or combinations thereof. As noted above the code may be stored on a computer readable storage medium for example in the form of a computer program comprising a plurality of instructions executable by one or more processors. The computer readable storage medium may be non transitory.

As an illustrative non limiting example of the process for selecting a charging robot to handle the charging request multiple charging robots including the charging robot may communicate charging capability information to other charging robots on a network. Each charging robot may execute instructions that compare received charging capabilities of another charging robot to the charging capabilities of charging robot . For example charging robot compares its own charging capabilities against charging capabilities of other robots to determine if one or more of the other robots is better suited to fulfilling the charging request than the charging robot . As an example a charging robot robot A may be capable of charging an electronic device associated with a charging request to 20 capacity. The robot A may be located a distance that will take approximately five minutes for robot A to reach the user at the user s location. Another charging robot robot B may be capable of charging the electronic device associated with the charging request to 100 capacity. Robot B may be located at a distance that would require 2 minutes travel time for robot B to travel to the user s location. Robot A may receive charging capabilities associated with robot B and execute operations that determine 1 that robot B may charge the electronic device to a greater extent than robot A could and or 2 that robot B is closer to the user than robot A. Based on such determinations robot A may execute operations that determine that robot A should not handle the charging request. Similarly robot B upon receiving charging capabilities associated with robot A may execute operations that determine that robot B is best suited to fulfill the charging request due to 1 a determination that robot B is able to charge the electronic device to a greater extent than robot A and or 2 a determination that robot B is closer to the user than robot A. The determinations discussed above may be based at least in part on one or more rules associated with charging capabilities of various robots locational rules configuration specification of various robots or the like. At robot B upon a determination that it is the best suited charging robot to complete the charging request may execute operations that communicate to the charging management system that robot B will fulfill the charging request.

As a further non limiting example upon receipt of the charging request each charging robot may transmit its location to the other charging robots. Upon receipt of a transmitted location a charging robot e.g. the charging robot may compare its location to the received location. If the charging robot ascertains that it is closer to the user than the received location it may self assign itself to carry out the charging request. In at least one example after a period of time has elapsed during which no additional locations are received the charging robot may send information related to its identification to the charging management system at indicating that the charging robot has been selected to fulfill the charging request.

At the charging management system may send instructions to the identified charging robot to carry out the charging request utilizing for example robot coordination manager of the charging management engine may send instructions to dispatch the charging robot to a user. In at least one example robot coordination manager may delay dispatching the charging robot based on a number of other charging requests. This may be the case when there is no available charging robot available e.g. all charging robots are busy fulfilling other charging requests . Additionally or alternatively robot coordination manager may delay dispatching the charging robot based on a prioritization scheme associated with the charging requests. For example a user that requesting 60 minutes of charging time may have a charging robot dispatched at an earlier time than a user who made a charging request at substantially the same time but who requesting only 20 minutes of charging time. The user requesting the longer charging time may be provided faster service given an assumption that the user will exchange more value monetary or via participating in user activities than the user requesting a shorter charging time. In some cases for example when there is high demand for the charging robots users requesting shorter charging times may be given priority so as to provide more users access to the charging robots. The prioritization scheme utilized by the charging management system may take into account various factors that are identifiable from information included in the charging request including but not limited to a duration of charging time a type of electronic device to be charged purchase information regarding an item good or service to name a few. Such instructions may additionally include information related to the user s location e.g. in the event that the user has moved since issuing the request .

At the robotic device may navigate to the user s location as indicated in the instructions at . Once in the user s presence the charging robot may request user information at . For example charging robot may present via a user interface provided by display manager of the charging management engine a request for the user to enter login information associated with an electronic marketplace account. As previously discussed login information may be utilized to obtain user profile information e.g. past purchase information return history browsing history etc. in order to determine one or more user activity options to present to the user. Additionally the obtained user profile information may be used to access billing and or shipping information of the user. In at least one example the user may enter such login information at the user interface. In some examples the charging robot may collect user information e.g. biometric information to be used for login purposes using an imaging device or RFID. Login information may also be utilized to authenticate the user and confirm that the charging robot has arrived at and is being utilized by the user who initiated the charging request. Charging robot may forward such user information to the charging management system at . At the charging management system may authenticate the user using the forwarded user information. In at least one example image recognition techniques or audio recognition techniques may be utilized to authenticate the user.

At charging management system may determine one or more user activity options to present to the user utilizing for example the user login information and or the user information collected using an imaging device or RFID described above. The content selection engine of the charging management engine may obtain user profile information e.g. from user profile data store using the user login information and or user information collected using an imaging device or RFID. In one non limiting example the content selection engine may utilize the obtained user profile information to ascertain past purchase information associated with the user in order to determine one or more user activity options e.g. an option to view an advertisement to present to the user via the robot. Information related to the determined user activity options e.g. the one or more advertisements from the example above may be sent to the charging robot . At charging robot may present the user activity options using display manager of the charging management engine . At the user may cause an indication of user interaction to be sent to the charging robot . As a non limiting example the user may select a user activity option e.g. by selecting a displayed hyperlink clicking a graphical or physical button touching a touch screen speaking out load or the like . As a result of the user s selection information about the user s selection may be sent to charging robot . For example consider the option selected was to browse an electronic marketplace via an interface provided on the charging robot . In this example the user s browsing activity may cause the indication of user interaction at . Other examples of indications of user interactions include button clicks keyword search activity completion of a purchase plugging an electronic device into a charging port of the charging robot or the like.

In at least one example the charging robot may use one or more of sensor s to ascertain that the user is interacting in the appropriate manner according to the user activity being conducted. In such an example user interactions include movements of the user e.g. an eye movement a hand wave a head movement etc. . For example if the user is required to view a video in exchange for his charging time an imaging device on charging robot may be utilized to watch the eye movements of user. Facial recognition and or image processing techniques may be utilized to determine that the user is in fact watching the video e.g. based on an estimated viewing angle of the user with respect to the robotic device a threshold number of eye movements over a period of time movement of suitable portion of the user etc. . In yet other embodiments facial recognition and or image processing techniques or other biometric data may be utilized to authenticate the user and confirm that the charging robot arrived at and or is being utilized by the intended user. In at least one example sensor s may be used to collect interaction data indicating a user interaction with the robotic device e.g. movement by the user proximity of the user with respect to the robotic device or the like. . Such a determination would also send the indication of user interaction discussed above. The charging robot may forward the indication of user interaction to the charging management system at .

As a non limiting example upon user selection of the user activity option e.g. an option to view an advertisement charging management system may select one or more advertisements e.g. from advertisement data store of to be presented to the user based on for example a relevancy score between the past purchase information and the advertisement. Charging management engine may assign a relevancy score to advertisements of the advertisement data store based on a comparison between an item featured in the advertisement and one or more items that have been purchased by the user. As a non limiting example an advertisement featuring a toy for children may be assigned a higher relevancy score than an advertisement featuring a piece of jewelry due to the past purchase information indicating that the user has purchased children s toys more often than purchasing jewelry. A relevancy score may be based on a comparison of item features details e.g. a featured electronic item in an advertisement having a similar feature for example an high definition feature as an electronic item previously purchased by the user on an electronic marketplace . A relevancy score may be based on comparison of an item category e.g. the featured item being associated with a same or similar category as a category for example housewares from which the user has purchased items in the past . Any suitable user profile information may be utilized to determine relevancy scores including but not limited to browsing information of the user return history of the user user specified preferences associated with preferred advertisement categories or the like.

Upon receipt of the indication of user activity e.g. the user submits payment information the user completes a survey the user views an advertisement or completion of any user activity provided in exchange for charging an electronic device from the power source s of the charging robot etc. charging management system may authorize the charge of the electronic device at . In at least one example the authorization indicates to the charging robot a period during which the user is authorized to charge the electronic device. Any suitable charging period may be authorized and in some cases may depend on the user activity the user interaction the number of users currently requesting a charge and other relevant considerations.

For example particular user activities may receive more or less charging time than other user activities. For example a user who purchases leases an item from an electronic marketplace or alternatively from the charging robot may receive more authorized charging time e.g. 30 minutes of charging time than a user who completed a user activity of watching a number of advertisements using the charging robot e.g. 10 minutes of charging time . Purchasing a stick of gum from the charging robot may result in less charging time than for example purchasing a charging device from the charging robot . In accordance with at least one embodiment charging time may be based on a monetary purchase threshold e.g. 30 minutes of charging time for purchasing an item for a price greater or equal to 2.00 45 minutes of charging time for purchasing an item priced greater or equal to 5.00 etc. . Items may be purchased leased from an electronic marketplace and delivered by the charging robot or items may be purchased leased directly from the charging robot . The amount of charging time allotted may be additionally or alternatively based on an amount of time that it takes the user or an assumed amount of time that it will take the user to complete a user activity. For example charging time may be given on charging robot for as long as the user continues to interact with the charging robot e.g. while using a user interface on charging robot to browse an electronic marketplace . In some examples charging time may be allotted only on completion of a user activity e.g. completion of a survey or based on a predetermined allotment of time e.g. 30 minutes has been predetermined to be allotted upon completion of a human intelligence task such as identifying text in a picture . In at least one example the user may simply pay a predetermined fee in exchange for a period of charging time e.g. 30 minutes of charging time for 5.00 . The fee may vary depending on the period of charging time purchased. Such payments may be processed by submission of payment information at a user interface of the charging robot . Payment information may be transmitted to payment engine of the charging management engine . Upon completion of payment the charging management system may authorize the charging robot to provide the charge to the electronic device of the user causing the charging robot to provide the charge to the electronic device at . Fee payment s may be conducted at an electronic marketplace e.g. a user buys 60 minutes of charging time to user now or at a later date . Charging time may in some cases be discounted as the amount of purchased charging time increases e.g. 2.00 for 10 minutes 5.00 for 30 minutes 7.00 for 60 minutes etc. .

In at least one example while the charging robot is charging the device the user may utilize the user interfaces of the charging robot to peruse an electronic marketplace to view items stored on the charging robot that are available for purchase to view advertisements to play a game to access electronic content e.g. music movies and television or the like. The charging robot may display a percentage of charge and or charge time remaining to charge the electronic device. The user in some cases may be provided the option to purchase rapid charging time. For example a user may purchase or otherwise exchange user interaction for charging time using a 2 amp capable charger. The user may additionally or alternatively choose to purchase or otherwise exchange user interaction for charging time using a 5 amp capable charger. The 5 amp capable charger may charge the electronic device at a faster rate than the 2 amp capable charger and in some cases may be purchased and or exchanged for more monetary or user activity value than the 2 amp capable charger. In at least one embodiment the charging robot may throttle or otherwise control the electrical current used by a charging port s of the charging robot so as to control the rate of electrical current flowing to the electronic device. At in accordance with at least one embodiment the charging management system may determine e.g. utilizing clock of that the authorized period has passed. Based on such a determination the charging management system may revoke charging authorization at causing at the charging robot to discontinue charging the electronic device. In at least one example charging robot may take a remedial action upon receipt of the authorization revocation. For example charging robot may alert the user either audibly or visually that charging has ceased. Additionally or alternatively the charging robot may physically detach the electronic device upon receiving authorization revocation. The charging robot in some cases may discontinue the charging of the electronic device with or without an alert to the user.

At block a particular charging robot e.g. the charging robot of of a number of charging robots may be selected by the charging management system to perform a charge of the electronic device indicated in the request e.g. a subset of known operational charging robots . As an illustrative non limiting example multiple charging robots may communicate charging capability information to the charging management system . Such information may be stored by for example the robot coordination manager of . A component of the charging management system e.g. the robot coordination manager may compare received charging capabilities of the various charging robots to determine a particular charging robot to assign the charging request. These comparisons may be used to determine for example an best suited charging robot for completing the charging request. As an example the charging robot robot A for this example may be capable of charging an electronic device associated with a charging request to 20 capacity. The robot A may be located a distance that will take approximately five minutes for robot A to reach the user at the user s location e.g. included in the charging request . Another charging robot robot B may be capable of charging the electronic device associated with the charging request to 100 capacity. Additionally robot B may be located at a distance that would require 2 minutes travel time for robot B to travel to the user s location. The charging management system may score or otherwise assess the capabilities of robot A and robot B. Scores may be calculated based on a charging configuration of each charging robot e.g. what charging port s are available on the charging robot a charging rate e.g. a 2 amp charging capability of the charging robot a location of the charging robot a location of the user an electronic device to be charged an inventory located on or accessible to the charging robot a location of inventory accessible to the charging robot a remaining charge on the charging robot a location of a charging station where the charging robot may recharge itself a specification of the space the user and or the charging robot e.g. a map of an airport at which the user and the charging robot are currently located or the like. The determinations discussed above may be based on one or more rules associated with charging capabilities of various robots locational rules configuration specification of various robots or the like.

At block information related to the request may be sent to the selected charging robot in order to dispatch the selected charging robot to the user s location. At block after selection of a robotic device as described above a robotic device e.g. the selected robotic device may be dispatched. At block an indication of a user interaction with the charging robot may be received e.g. utilizing an interface presented to the user by the robotic device . The indication of user interaction with the robot B may include any example discuss herein including completing a survey viewing an advertisement accessing electronic content playing a game or the like. While the charging robot is charging the device the user may utilize the user interfaces of the charging robot to peruse an electronic marketplace to view items stored on the charging robot that are available for purchase to view advertisements to play a game to access electronic content e.g. music movies and television or the like. At block the charging request may be authorized based on the indication of the user interaction.

At block the charging management system may detect completion of the charging request. In at least one example detection may constitute an alarm or other indication of time elapse e.g. the user was allotted 30 minutes and the charging management system has detected that 30 minutes have elapsed . Detection may additionally or alternatively constitute receipt of an indication of completion of the charging request from robot B. Upon detection of completion of the charging request the charging management system may communicate instructions to the charging robot that cause the charging robot to cease charging of the electronic device. Additionally the charging management system may communicate instructions that cause the charging robot to alert the user of the completion of the charging request and or to provide the user with an option to continue charging e.g. in exchange for a fee or completion of a user activity .

At block the charging management system may update information e.g. robot availability charging capabilities location etc. associated with the robotic device according to the completion of the charging request. In some cases for example if the robotic device is below a predetermined battery level threshold the charging management system may communicate instructions to the robotic device that cause the robotic device to seek charging of its internal power sources e.g. power source s of .

In accordance with at least one embodiment the charging management system determines one or more locations of one or more charging robot at . For example the charging management system sends a request to a subset of the charging robots requesting available devices to respond. Additionally or alternatively the charging management system consults for example a mapping indicating available charging robots. Further charging management system may determine the subset based on which charging robots are capable of charging an electronic device of the type indicated in the charging request. Capable as used herein is intended to mean that the charging robot is operational the charging robot has a charging configuration that is enabled to charge electronic devices of the same type as the electronic device the charging robot is not otherwise occupied e.g. already charging an electronic device or otherwise being used the charging robot has over a threshold amount of battery power remaining and in some cases the charging robot is within a threshold distance of the user or any combination above. At charging management system may select a charging robot to carry out the charging request in this case by determining a charging robot nearest to the user s location. At charging management system may send information about the charging request to the selected charging robot utilizing for example the robot coordination manager of .

At after being dispatched by the charging management system the charging robot may navigate to the user s location as indicated in the instructions at . Once in the user s presence the charging robot may provide user e.g. according to instructions received and or determined by display manager of a number of user activity options e.g. determined by content selection engine of at . At user may cause an indication of user interaction e.g. a button click selection or other interface element selection to be sent to the charging robot in a similar manner as described above in connection with . The charging robot may send the indication of user interaction to charging management system at .

Upon receipt of the indication of user interaction charging management system may authorize the charge at . In at least one example the authorization indicates to the charging robot a period of time during which the user is authorized to charge the electronic device. As discussed above any suitable period of time may be authorized and in some cases may depend on the type of user activity a number of users currently requesting a charge and other considerations. In at least one example if a number of charging requests exceeds a threshold amount e.g. indicating that X number of users are waiting charging times allowed may be decreased for one or more users to increase charging robot availability. Alternatively the number of charging requests may be ignored and any suitable charging period of time may be allowed to users completing particular user activities. As a non limiting example a user who pays for the charging time may not have his time decreased e.g. as a result of high charging time demand while a user who is viewing an advertisement in exchange for charging time may have his time decreased e.g. as a result of high charging time demand . As previously mentioned completion of some user activities result in more or less charging time than other completion of other user activities. The charging robot may commence charging the electronic device at .

In accordance with at least one embodiment the charging robot follows the user while charging the electronic device. Consider the case where the user has purchased a period of charging time and is shopping e.g. in a shopping center . Once charging commences the charging robot may utilize any suitable combination of sensor s to determine that the user is moving. Such data may be sent to charging management system at . Upon receipt of such data charging management system e.g. the tracking manager of may for example utilize a map e.g. digital floor plans of the shopping center obtained from map data store of and or sensor data indicating obstacles between the charging robot and the user. The charging management system may utilize the map and the sensor data to track the user through the shopping center. As the charging management system tracks the user through the shopping center instructions may be sent periodically to charging robot indicating instructions to maintain a threshold distance between the charging robot and user . Such instructions may include operations that cause the charging robot to increase or decrease speed to change or maintain a heading or the like. Such instructions may be based on sensor data and the map. This tracking process may continue until the user stops moving until the electronic device is disconnected from charging robot upon user specification or at any suitable time.

At block a robotic device may be selected to perform a charge of the electronic device the robotic device being selected from a plurality of robotic devices within a proximity of the location of the user. For example robotic devices located within a proximity of the location of the user may be determined by utilizing location information of each of the robotic devices e.g. using GPS coordinates map data or the like and the location of the user e.g. using GPS coordinates map data or the like . In accordance with at least one embodiment information related to the request may be sent to one or more robotic devices of the plurality of robotic devices within a proximity of the location of the user. For example robotic devices that are located within the proximity of the location of the user may first be identified. The request may then be sent only to those identified robotic devices. As discussed above the robotic devices may communicate with one another to determine a best suited robotic device for fulfilling the charging robot. The selected device may communicate the self assignment to the charging management system . Alternatively the charging management system may select the robotic device to perform the charge by utilizing information including but not limited to location data of the robotic device and the user and capability information of the robotic devices.

At block the robotic device may be dispatched to the location of the user. For example charging management system may send instructions to the robotic device that when executed cause the robotic device to travel to the user. In another example charging management system may provide a location of the user and the robotic device may calculate a traversal path to the user.

At block an indication of user interaction with the selected robotic device is received e.g. by the charging management system . As discussed above the indication of user interaction may include but is not limited to button clicks keyword search activity completion of a purchase or lease sensor data to name a few.

At block instructions are sent to the selected robotic device e.g. by the charging management system . The instructions when executed cause the charging of the electronic device to commence the instructions may be sent based on the received indication of user interaction.

At block the location of the user is tracked while the robotic device is performing the charge of the electronic device. For example sensor s on the robotic device map data video feed e.g. provided by a source other than the robotic device or any suitable combination of the above may be utilized to track the location of the user as described in the examples above.

At block the robotic device may be instructed to follow the user at a threshold distance from the user. For example charging management system may transmit instructions to the robotic device that when executed cause the robotic device to follow the user at a threshold distance from the user. In another example charging management system may provide periodic location updates with respect to the user and the robotic device may calculate a traversal path each location update.

At block information related to the request may be sent by the charging management system to one or more robotic devices of a plurality of robotic devices at the first location e.g. the departure airport . At an indication of a user interaction with a first robotic device of a plurality of robotic devices may be received by the charging management system . Such an indication may be received using an interface presented to the user by the first robotic device.

At block instructions for the first robotic device to provide the electronic device e.g. the preloaded tablet PC to the user may be sent by the charging management system . At block a request to return the electronic device provided by the first robotic device may be received by the charging management system from the user e.g. the user s electronic device at a second location e.g. an arrival airport . In at least one example the request to return the electronic device may be sent from the electronic device or another electronic device. At block information related to the return request may be sent by the charging management system to one or more robotic devices of a plurality of robotic devices available at the second location e.g. the arrival airport .

At block instructions may be provided to the user e.g. via a user interface presented on a second robotic device to return the electronic device to the second robotic device. At block an indication may be received from the second robot indicating that the electronic device has been returned.

At block a request to perform an action e.g. charging of an electronic device may be received. At block information related to the request may be sent to one or more robotic devices of a plurality of robotic devices. In at least one example the one or more robotic devices may be within a proximity of a location of the user e.g. within 300 yards .

At block a robotic device of the plurality of robotic devices is determined to be responding to the request to perform the action with respect to the electronic device. For example a charging robot e.g. the charging robot of may transmit information indicating that the charging robot is responding to the request. In another example the charging management system may determine the charging robot is responding to the request based on e.g. based on GPS information indicating that the charging robot is traveling to the user and or that the charging robot is within a threshold distance of the user .

At block an indication that the user has interacted with the robotic device is received. At block instructions to perform the action with respect to the electronic device are sent to the robotic device e.g. the charging robot .

Examples included in the present disclosure have included electronic charging examples. It should be noted that the charging management system described herein may provide services other than electronic charging. For example the charging management system in a similar manner as described in connection to the figures above may provide additional or alternative services such as any combination of the following software updates virus scanning content downloads video game playing e.g. utilizing the display interfaces of the robot and or utilizing the robot as an opponent item retrieval e.g. luggage retrieval storage space e.g. locked and or unlocked item transport e.g. luggage carrying handicap assistance e.g. attaching to and pulling a wheelchair to a designated location travel information e.g. flight times tourism information etc. or the like.

The various embodiments further can be implemented in a wide variety of operating environments which in some cases can include one or more user computers computing devices or processing devices that can be used to operate any of a number of applications. User or client devices can include any of a number of general purpose personal computers such as desktop or laptop computers running a standard operating system as well as cellular wireless and handheld devices running mobile software and capable of supporting a number of networking and messaging protocols. Such a system also can include a number of workstations running any of a variety of commercially available operating systems and other known applications for purposes such as development and database management. These devices also can include other electronic devices such as dummy terminals thin clients gaming systems and other devices capable of communicating via a network.

Most embodiments utilize at least one network that would be familiar to those skilled in the art for supporting communications using any of a variety of commercially available protocols such as Transmission Control Protocol Internet Protocol TCP IP Open System Interconnection OSI File Transfer Protocol FTP Universal Plug and Play UpnP Network File System NFS Common Internet File System CIFS and AppleTalk. The network can be for example a local area network a wide area network a virtual private network the Internet an intranet an extranet a public switched telephone network an infrared network a wireless network and any combination thereof.

In embodiments utilizing a Web server the Web server can run any of a variety of server or mid tier applications including Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP servers FTP servers Common Gateway Interface CGI servers data servers Java servers and business application servers. The server s also may be capable of executing programs or scripts in response requests from user devices such as by executing one or more network applications that may be implemented as one or more scripts or programs written in any programming language such as Java C C or C or any scripting language such as Perl Python or TCL as well as combinations thereof. The server s may also include database servers including without limitation those commercially available from Oracle Microsoft Sybase and IBM .

The environment can include a variety of data stores and other memory and storage media as discussed above. These can reside in a variety of locations such as on a storage medium local to and or resident in one or more of the computers or remote from any or all of the computers across the network. In a particular set of embodiments the information may reside in a storage area network SAN familiar to those skilled in the art. Similarly any necessary files for performing the functions attributed to the computers servers or other network devices may be stored locally and or remotely as appropriate. Where a system includes computerized devices each such device can include hardware elements that may be electrically coupled via a bus the elements including for example at least one central processing unit CPU at least one input device e.g. a mouse keyboard controller touch screen or keypad and at least one output device e.g. a display device printer or speaker . Such a system may also include one or more storage devices such as disk drives optical storage devices and solid state storage devices such as random access memory RAM or read only memory ROM as well as removable media devices memory cards flash cards etc.

Such devices also can include a computer readable storage media reader a communications device e.g. a modem a network card wireless or wired an infrared communication device etc. and working memory as described above. The computer readable storage media reader can be connected with or configured to receive a computer readable storage medium representing remote local fixed and or removable storage devices as well as storage media for temporarily and or more permanently containing storing transmitting and retrieving computer readable information. The system and various devices also typically will include a number of software applications modules services or other elements located within at least one working memory device including an operating system and application programs such as a client application or browser. It should be appreciated that alternate embodiments may have numerous variations from that described above. For example customized hardware might also be used and or particular elements might be implemented in hardware software including portable software such as applets or both. Further connection to other computing devices such as network input output devices may be employed.

Storage media and computer readable media for containing code or portions of code can include any appropriate media known or used in the art including storage media and communication media such as but not limited to volatile and non volatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage and or transmission of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data including RAM ROM Electrically Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology Compact Disc Read Only Memory CD ROM digital versatile disk DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by the a system device. Based on the disclosure and teachings provided herein a person of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate other ways and or methods to implement the various embodiments.

The specification and drawings are accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense. It will however be evident that various modifications and changes may be made thereunto without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the embodiments as set forth in the claims.

In the description above various embodiments of the present disclosure have been described. For purposes of explanation specific configurations and details have been set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the embodiments. However it will also be apparent to one skilled in the art that the embodiments may be practiced without the specific details. Furthermore well known features may have been omitted or simplified in order not to obscure the embodiment being described.

Other variations are within the spirit of the present disclosure. Thus while the disclosed techniques are susceptible to various modifications and alternative constructions certain illustrated embodiments thereof are shown in the drawings and have been described above in detail. It should be understood however that there is no intention to limit the disclosure to the specific form or forms disclosed but on the contrary the intention is to cover all modifications alternative constructions and equivalents falling within the spirit and scope of the disclosure as defined in the appended claims.

Some or all of the process described above may be performed under the control of one or more computer systems configured with specific computer executable instructions and may be implemented as code e.g. executable instructions one or more computer programs or one or more applications executing collectively on one or more processors by hardware or combinations thereof. The code may be stored on a non transitory computer readable storage medium for example in the form of a computer program including a plurality of instructions executable by one or more processors. The computer readable storage medium may be non transitory.

The use of the terms a and an and the and similar referents in the context of describing the disclosed embodiments especially in the context of the following claims are to be construed to cover both the singular and the plural unless otherwise indicated herein or clearly contradicted by context. The terms comprising having including and containing are to be construed as open ended terms i.e. meaning including but not limited to unless otherwise noted. The term connected is to be construed as partly or wholly contained within attached to or joined together even if there is something intervening. Recitation of ranges of values herein are merely intended to serve as a shorthand method of referring individually to each separate value falling within the range unless otherwise indicated herein and each separate value is incorporated into the specification as if it were individually recited herein. All methods described herein can be performed in any suitable order unless otherwise indicated herein or otherwise clearly contradicted by context. The use of any and all examples or exemplary language e.g. such as provided herein is intended merely to better illuminate embodiments of the disclosure and does not pose a limitation on the scope of the disclosure unless otherwise claimed. No language in the specification should be construed as indicating any non claimed element as essential to the practice of the disclosure.

Disjunctive language such as the phrase at least one of X Y or Z unless specifically stated otherwise is otherwise understood within the context as used in general to present that an item term etc. may be either X Y or Z or any combination thereof e.g. X Y and or Z . Thus such disjunctive language is not generally intended to and should not imply that certain embodiments require at least one of X at least one of Y or at least one of Z for each to be present.

Preferred embodiments of this disclosure are described herein including the best mode known to the inventors for carrying out the disclosure. Variations of those preferred embodiments may become apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art upon reading the foregoing description. The inventors expect skilled artisans to employ such variations as appropriate and the inventors intend for the embodiments to be practiced otherwise than as specifically described herein. Accordingly this disclosure includes all modifications and equivalents of the subject matter recited in the claims appended hereto as permitted by applicable law. Moreover any combination of the above described elements in all possible variations thereof is encompassed by the disclosure unless otherwise indicated herein or otherwise clearly contradicted by context.

All references including publications patent applications and patents cited herein are hereby incorporated by reference to the same extent as if each reference were individually and specifically indicated to be incorporated by reference and were set forth in its entirety herein.

