---

title: System and method for efficient coupling of cabling in a multi-cable rack-mounted environment
abstract: Systems, apparatuses, and methods for efficiently decoupling and recoupling various groupings of computer-network cabling in computer network environments using one or more multi-port, rapid-connect brackets. A multi-port, rapid-connect bracket may include individual interfaces for patch cables to be seated for coupling to a network device. The rapid-connect bracket may further include one or more actuating arms for maneuvering several connectors at once in order to release each individual connector from a seated engagement with the network device. In this manner, the entire rapid connect bracket is removed from being engaged with the device while the individual patch cables remain seated in the bracket itself. Once removed from the network device, the bracket maintains the position of each patch cable such that the bracket may be recoupled to a new network device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09640898&OS=09640898&RS=09640898
owner: NetSuite Inc.
number: 09640898
owner_city: San Mateo
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20151110
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 62 115 015 entitled System and Method for Efficient Coupling of Cabling in a Multi Cable Rack Mounted Environment filed Feb. 11 2015 which is incorporated by reference in its entirety herein for all purposes.

Modern networked computing environments may typically feature rack mounted server computers hubs routers and switches for providing network coupling interfaces for several different computing devices. For example it is common for large local area networks to utilize 48 port switches for connecting several computing devices to a local network at one common rack mounted device. As a result communicative cabling may be routed and terminated near each network device. With a great number of cables e.g. Cat 5 or Cat 6 cabling all terminating in one location organization and cabling structure becomes important.

One solution implemented in the past includes using patch bays wherein each lengthy cable run is terminated at a patch bay and carefully numbered and recorded in network drawings. Then a shorter patch cable such as 3 6 feet in length may then be used to couple from the patch bay to the network device. This convention eliminates some wear and tear on the long cable runs by interjecting a patch bay for receiving the brunt of coupling uncoupling recoupling activity. However if the patch bay or the network device is to be replaced due to failure or obsolescence a technician must painstakingly remove each short run patch cable and carefully reassemble the order of the patch cables at the new patch bay or device. That is each individual patch cable must be carefully replaced one by one once the new piece of equipment is in place in order to ensure that the corresponding computing device at the other end of the lengthy cabling run is patched back to the same position in the network. Such individual cable re patching is time consuming cumbersome and prone to human error.

Note that the same numbers are used throughout the disclosure and figures to reference like components and features.

The subject matter of embodiments of the disclosure is described here with specificity to meet statutory requirements but this description is not necessarily intended to limit the scope of the claims. The claimed subject matter may be embodied in other ways may include different elements or steps and may be used in conjunction with other existing or future technologies. This description should not be interpreted as implying any particular order or arrangement among or between various steps or elements except when the order of individual steps or arrangement of elements is explicitly described.

Embodiments of the disclosure will be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings which form a part hereof and which show by way of illustration exemplary embodiments by which the subject matter may be practiced. This subject matter may however be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein rather these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will satisfy the statutory requirements and convey the scope of the subject matter to those skilled in the art.

Embodiments are directed to systems apparatuses and methods for efficiently decoupling and recoupling various groupings of computer network cabling in computer network environments using one or more multi port rapid connect brackets. A multi port rapid connect bracket may include individual interfaces for patch cables to be seated for coupling to a network device. The total number of cables that can be used can be any number and may typically be 12 24 or 48 as these are standard numbers of ports is conventional networking devices. The rapid connect bracket may further include one or more actuating arms for maneuvering several connectors at once in order to release each individual connector from a seated engagement with the network device. In this manner the entire rapid connect bracket is removed from being engaged with the device while the individual patch cables remain seated in the bracket itself. Once removed from the network device the bracket maintains the position of each patch cable such that the bracket may be recoupled to a new network device such as a replacement device taking the place of a failed or obsolete device having the same number of ports.

There are a number of best practices that datacenter engineers employ to help streamline a process for replacing high port density network devices. For example top of rack patch panels with short run cables cable labeling adjacent spares and the like are helpful but none of which prevent the possibility of human error or save significant time in replacement of a failed device. Generally concerns about inability to triage device level failures are addressed with redundant systems. Failures in these systems do not cause immediate outages but in replacing a failed component the risk of human error persists and outages often occur when a replaced system is added back into a redundant configuration or when the secondary network device fails and it s discovered the spare system has been misconfigured. A device specific patch cable bracket according to embodiments disclosed herein alleviate the time consuming cumbersome and human error prone aspects of device replacement. Other objects and advantages of the present disclosure will be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art upon review of the detailed description of the present subject matter and the included figures. Prior to discussing the figures related to the embodiments of a multi port rapid connect bracket an overview of a multi tenant computing environment is discussed with respect to 

As noted in some embodiments the subject matter may be implemented in the context of a multi tenant cloud based computing environment such as a multi tenant business data processing platform typically used to develop and provide web services and business applications for end users. Such a computing environment may include a large number of centrally located server computers network hubs network switches and network routers that interconnected with each other in a hierarchical manner via patch cabling and routing. As businesses and customers rely on uptime for all computing components it becomes important to minimize downtime when repairs or replacements are made. The devices and methods described below with respect to make repairs and replacements more efficient in such a computing environment.

This exemplary implementation environment will be described with reference to . Note that embodiments may also be implemented in the context of other computing or operational environments or systems such as for an individual business data processing system a private network used with a plurality of client terminals a remote or on site data processing system another form of client server architecture and the like.

The ability of business users to access crucial business information has been greatly enhanced by the proliferation of IP based networking together with advances in object oriented Web based programming and browser technology. Using these advances systems have been developed that permit web based access to business information systems thereby allowing a user with a browser and an Internet or intranet connection to view enter or modify business information. For example substantial efforts have been directed to Enterprise Resource Planning ERP systems that integrate the capabilities of several historically separate business computing systems into a common system with a view toward streamlining business processes and increasing efficiencies on a business wide level. By way of example the capabilities or modules of an ERP system may include but are not required to include nor limited to only including accounting order processing time and billing inventory management retail point of sale POS systems eCommerce product information management PIM demand material requirements planning MRP purchasing content management systems CMS professional services automation PSA employee management payroll human resources management and employee calendaring and collaboration as well as reporting and analysis capabilities relating to these functions.

In a related development substantial efforts have also been directed to integrated Customer Relationship Management CRM systems with a view toward obtaining a better understanding of customers enhancing service to existing customers and acquiring new and profitable customers. By way of example the capabilities or modules of a CRM system can include but are not required to include nor limited to only including sales force automation SFA marketing automation contact list call center support returns management authorization RMA loyalty program support and web based customer support as well as reporting and analysis capabilities relating to these functions. With differing levels of overlap with ERP CRM initiatives and with each other efforts have also been directed toward development of increasingly integrated partner and vendor management systems as well as web store eCommerce product lifecycle management PLM and supply chain management SCM functionality.

Integrated business system which may be hosted by a dedicated third party may include an integrated business server and a web interface server coupled as shown in . It is to be appreciated that either or both of the integrated business server and the web interface server may be implemented on one or more different hardware systems and components even though represented as singular units in . In one embodiment integrated business server comprises an ERP module and further comprises a CRM module . In many cases it will be desirable for the ERP module to share methods libraries databases subroutines variables and the like with CRM module and indeed ERP module may be intertwined with CRM module into an integrated Business Data Processing Platform which may be single tenant but is typically multi tenant .

The ERP module may include but is not limited to a finance and accounting module an order processing module a time and billing module an inventory management and distribution module an employee management and payroll module a calendaring and collaboration module a reporting and analysis module and other ERP related modules. The CRM module may include but is not limited to a sales force automation SFA module a marketing automation module a contact list module not shown a call center support module a web based customer support module a reporting and analysis module and other CRM related modules. The integrated business server or multi tenant data processing platform further may provide other business functionalities including a web store eCommerce module a partner and vendor management module and an integrated reporting module . An SCM supply chain management module and PLM product lifecycle management module may also be provided. Web interface server is configured and adapted to interface with the integrated business server to provide one or more web based user interfaces to end users of the enterprise network .

The integrated business system shown in may be hosted on a distributed computing system made up of at least one but likely multiple servers. A server is a physical computer dedicated to run one or more software services intended to serve the needs of the users of other computers that are in data communication with the server for instance via a public network such as the Internet or a private intranet network. The server and the services it provides may be referred to as the host and the remote computers and the software applications running on the remote computers being served may be referred to as clients. Depending on the computing service that a server offers it could be referred to as a database server file server mail server print server web server and the like. A web server is a most often a combination of hardware and the software that helps deliver content commonly by hosting a website to client web browsers that access the web server via the Internet.

The distributed computing service platform which may also be referred to as a multi tenant business data processing platform may include multiple processing tiers including a user interface tier an application server tier and a data storage tier . The user interface tier may maintain multiple user interfaces including graphical user interfaces and or web based interfaces. The user interfaces may include a default user interface for the service to provide access to applications and data for a user or tenant of the service depicted as Service UI in the figures as well as one or more user interfaces that have been specialized customized in accordance with user specific requirements e.g. represented by Tenant A UI . . . Tenant Z UI in the figures and which may be accessed via one or more APIs . The default user interface may include components enabling a tenant to administer the tenant s participation in the functions and capabilities provided by the service platform such as accessing data causing the execution of specific data processing operations etc. Each processing tier shown in the figures may be implemented with a set of computers and or computer components including computer servers and processors and may perform various functions methods processes or operations as determined by the execution of a software application or set of instructions. The data storage tier may include one or more data stores which may include a Service Data store and one or more Tenant Data stores .

Each tenant data store may contain tenant specific data that is used as part of providing a range of tenant specific business services or functions including but not limited to ERP CRM eCommerce Human Resources management payroll and the like. Data stores may be implemented with any suitable data storage technology including structured query language SQL based relational database management systems RDBMS .

In accordance with one embodiment distributed computing service platform may be multi tenant and service platform may be operated by an entity in order to provide multiple tenants with a set of business related applications data storage and functionality. These applications and functionality may include ones that a business uses to manage various aspects of its operations. For example the applications and functionality may include providing web based access to business information systems thereby allowing a user with a browser and an Internet or intranet connection to view enter process or modify certain types of business information.

As noted such business information systems may include an Enterprise Resource Planning ERP system that integrates the capabilities of several historically separate business computing systems into a common system with the intention of streamlining business processes and increasing efficiencies on a business wide level. By way of example the capabilities or modules of an ERP system may include but are not required to include nor limited to only including accounting order processing time and billing inventory management retail point of sale POS systems eCommerce product information management PIM demand material requirements planning MRP purchasing content management systems CMS professional services automation PSA employee management payroll human resources management and employee calendaring and collaboration as well as reporting and analysis capabilities relating to these functions. Such functions or business applications are typically implemented by one or more modules of software code instructions that are maintained on and executed by one or more servers that are part of the platform s Application Server Tier .

Another business information system that may be provided as part of an integrated data processing and service platform is an integrated Customer Relationship Management CRM system which is designed to assist in obtaining a better understanding of customers enhance service to existing customers and assist in acquiring new and profitable customers. By way of example the capabilities or modules of a CRM system can include but are not required to include nor limited to only including sales force automation SFA marketing automation contact list call center support returns management authorization RMA loyalty program support and web based customer support as well as reporting and analysis capabilities relating to these functions. In addition to ERP and CRM functions a business information system platform such as element of may also include one or more of an integrated partner and vendor management system eCommerce system e.g. a virtual storefront application or platform product lifecycle management PLM system Human Resources management system which may include medical dental insurance administration payroll and the like or supply chain management SCM system Such functions or business applications are typically implemented by one or more modules of software code instructions that are maintained on and executed by one or more servers that are part of the platform s Application Server Tier .

Note that both functional advantages and strategic advantages may be gained through the use of an integrated business system comprising ERP CRM and other business capabilities as for example where the integrated business system is integrated with a merchant s eCommerce platform and or web store. For example a customer searching for a particular product can be directed to a merchant s website and presented with a wide array of product and or services from the comfort of their home computer or even from their mobile phone. When a customer initiates an online sales transaction via a browser based interface the integrated business system can process the order update accounts receivable update inventory databases and other ERP based systems and can also automatically update strategic customer information databases and other CRM based systems. These modules and other applications and functionalities may advantageously be integrated and executed by a single code base accessing one or more integrated databases as necessary forming an integrated business management system or platform such as platform of .

As noted with regards to the integrated business system shown in may be hosted on a distributed computing system made up of at least one but typically multiple servers. A server is a physical computer dedicated to run one or more software services intended to serve the needs of the users of other computers in data communication with the server for instance via a public network such as the Internet or a private intranet network. The server and the services it provides may be referred to as the host and the remote computers and the software applications running on the remote computers may be referred to as the clients. 

Rather than build and maintain such an integrated business system themselves a business may utilize systems provided by a third party. Such a third party may implement an integrated business system platform as described above in the context of a multi tenant platform wherein individual instantiations of a single comprehensive integrated business system are provided to a variety of tenants. One advantage to such multi tenant platforms is the ability for each tenant to customize their instantiation of the integrated business system to that tenant s specific business needs or operational methods. Each tenant may be a business or entity that uses the multi tenant platform to provide business data and functionality to multiple users. Some of those multiple users may have distinct roles or responsibilities within the business or entity.

In some cases a tenant may desire to modify or supplement the functionality of an existing platform application by introducing an extension to that application where the extension is to be made available to the tenant s employees and or and customers. In some cases such an extension may be applied to the processing of the tenant s business related data that is resident on the platform. The extension may be developed by the tenant or by a 3party developer and then made available to the tenant for installation. The platform may include a library or catalog of available extensions which can be accessed by a tenant and searched to identify an extension of interest. Software developers may be permitted to publish an extension to the library or catalog after appropriate validation of a proposed extension.

Thus in an effort to permit tenants to obtain the services and functionality that they desire which may include providing certain services to their end customers such as an eCommerce platform a multi tenant service platform may permit a tenant to configure certain aspects of the available service s to better suit their business needs. In this way aspects of the service platform may be customizable and thereby enable a tenant to configure aspects of the platform to provide distinctive services to their respective users or to groups of those users. For example a business enterprise that uses the service platform may want to provide additional functions or capabilities to their employees and or customers or to cause their business data to be processed in a specific way in accordance with a defined workflow that is tailored to their business needs etc.

Tenant customizations to the platform may include custom functionality such as the capability to perform tenant or user specific functions data processing or operations built on top of lower level operating system functions. Some multi tenant service platforms may offer the ability to customize functions or operations at a number of different levels of the service platform from aesthetic modifications to a graphical user interface to providing integration of components and or entire applications developed by independent third party vendors. This can be very beneficial since by permitting use of components and or applications developed by third party vendors a multi tenant service can significantly enhance the functionality available to tenants and increase tenant satisfaction with the platform.

As noted in addition to user customizations an independent software developer may create an extension to a particular application that is available to users through a multi tenant data processing platform. The extension may add new functionality or capabilities to the underlying application. One or more tenants users of the platform may wish to add the extension to the underlying application in order to be able to utilize the enhancements to the application that are made possible by the extension. Further the developer may wish to upgrade or provide a patch to the extension as they recognize a need for fixes or additional functionality that would be beneficial to incorporate into the extension. In some cases the developer may prefer to make the upgrade available to only a select set of users at least initially in order to obtain feedback for improving the newer version of the extension to test the stability of the extension or to assist them to segment the market for their extension s .

As noted is a diagram illustrating additional details of the elements or components of the multi tenant distributed computing service platform of in which an embodiment of the invention may be implemented. The example architecture includes a user interface layer or tier having one or more user interfaces . Examples of such user interfaces include graphical user interfaces and application programming interfaces APIs . Each user interface may include one or more interface elements . For example users may interact with interface elements in order to access functionality and or data provided by application and or data storage layers of the example architecture. Examples of graphical user interface elements include buttons menus checkboxes drop down lists scrollbars sliders spinners text boxes icons labels progress bars status bars toolbars windows hyperlinks and dialog boxes. Application programming interfaces may be local or remote and may include interface elements such as parameterized procedure calls programmatic objects and messaging protocols. As described herein embodiments of the invention provide a method for configuring aspects of a user interface such as the data entry fields of a form by specifying one or more user interface elements to present to a specified user.

The application layer may include one or more application modules each having one or more sub modules . Each application module or sub module may correspond to a particular function method process or operation that is implemented by the module or sub module e.g. a function or process related to providing ERP CRM eCommerce or other functionality to a user of the platform .

The application modules and or sub modules may include any suitable computer executable code or set of instructions e.g. as would be executed by a suitably programmed processor microprocessor or CPU such as computer executable code corresponding to a programming language. For example programming language source code may be compiled into computer executable code. Alternatively or in addition the programming language may be an interpreted programming language such as a scripting language. Each application server e.g. as represented by element of may include each application module. Alternatively different application servers may include different sets of application modules. Such sets may be disjoint or overlapping.

The data storage layer may include one or more data objects each having one or more data object components such as attributes and or behaviors. For example the data objects may correspond to tables of a relational database and the data object components may correspond to columns or fields of such tables. Alternatively or in addition the data objects may correspond to data records having fields and associated services. Alternatively or in addition the data objects may correspond to persistent instances of programmatic data objects such as structures and classes. Each data store in the data storage layer may include each data object. Alternatively different data stores may include different sets of data objects. Such sets may be disjoint or overlapping.

Note that the example computing environments depicted in are not intended to be limiting examples. Alternatively or in addition computing environments in which an embodiment of the invention may be implemented include any suitable system that permits users to provide data to and access process and utilize data stored in a data storage element e.g. a database that can be accessed remotely over a network. Further example environments in which an embodiment of the invention may be implemented include devices including mobile devices software applications systems apparatuses networks or other configurable components that may be used by multiple users for data entry data processing application execution data review etc. and which have user interfaces or user interface components that can be configured to present an interface to a user. Although further examples below may reference the example computing environment depicted in it will be apparent to one of skill in the art that the examples may be adapted for alternate computing devices systems apparatuses processes and environments.

Attention is now turned to to discuss aspects of various embodiments of a multi port rapid connect bracket.

The cable coupling bracket of may be made from plastic or metal or other suitable material and shows an empty main frame area so as to more easily show top and bottom frame disconnect levers . As will become more clear in figures described below the disconnect levers may be actuated to simultaneously disengage all patch cable jacks not shown in the top or bottom rows. The disconnect levers may be tailored to specifically fit a contour of network device not shown to which is may be attached. Further the top and bottom disconnect levers may further include bar grips to more easily handle the thin disconnect levers . Further yet the cable coupling bracket may include guide tracks for slidably engaging a port mounting card not shown . The port mounting card is discussed next with respect to .

The embodiment of shows port spaces for 14 patch cable jacks not shown . The configuration of the port spaces as well as the location of the disconnect levers may be tailored to match specific network devices from various manufacturers. As patch cable jacks are typically installed in each port space the disconnect levers may be rotated down to secure the entire row either top or bottom in this example of patch cables into a respective underlying network device not shown . Further each individual patch cable may be held in place in the port mounting card by individual cable retaining clips not shown in . Then when being replaced in presumably a new underlying network device each patch cable remains affixed to a respective port space so as to maintain position and ordering during maintenance. Such a configuration is shown in .

In another embodiment the cable coupling bracket may comprise first and second portions that are slidably engaged with each other in a manner to allow the overall length of the cable coupling bracket to be adjusted to fit the size of a network device . That is the first portion includes a contoured edge that matches a contoured reciprocal edge of the second portion such that the two portions and may slidably move towards or away from each other as desired while still anchoring one or more port mounting cards . In this embodiment shows two port mounting cards having two rows of six port holes. In other embodiments the port mounting cards may include any number of port holes including two four six eight and other numbers of port holes. Thus as the cable coupling bracket is adjusted to fit the length of a network device the appropriate number of port holes in a configuration of one or more port mounting cards can be deployed.

In further embodiments each patch cable may be secured to each respective port hole of the port mounting cards by using a cable retaining clip . In the referenced cable retaining clip is emphasized in the illustrated example. The cable retaining clip may be any mechanism suited to hold a patch cable to a port hole of a port mounting card .

All references including publications patent applications and patents cited herein are hereby incorporated by reference to the same extent as if each reference were individually and specifically indicated to be incorporated by reference and or were set forth in its entirety herein.

The use of the terms a and an and the and similar referents in the specification and in the following claims are to be construed to cover both the singular and the plural unless otherwise indicated herein or clearly contradicted by context. The terms having including containing and similar referents in the specification and in the following claims are to be construed as open ended terms e.g. meaning including but not limited to unless otherwise noted. Recitation of ranges of values herein are merely indented to serve as a shorthand method of referring individually to each separate value inclusively falling within the range unless otherwise indicated herein and each separate value is incorporated into the specification as if it were individually recited herein. All methods described herein can be performed in any suitable order unless otherwise indicated herein or clearly contradicted by context. The use of any and all examples or exemplary language e.g. such as provided herein is intended merely to better illuminate embodiments of the subject matter and does not pose a limitation to the scope of the subject matter unless otherwise claimed. No language in the specification should be construed as indicating any non claimed element as essential to each embodiment of the present subject matter.

Different arrangements of the components depicted in the drawings or described above as well as components and steps not shown or described are possible. Similarly some features and sub combinations are useful and may be employed without reference to other features and sub combinations. Embodiments of the subject matter have been described for illustrative and not restrictive purposes and alternative embodiments will become apparent to readers of this patent. Accordingly the present subject matter is not limited to the embodiments described above or depicted in the drawings and various embodiments and modifications can be made without departing from the scope of the claims below.

