---

title: Discovery of services by mobile communication devices using a service registry indexed by wireless beacons
abstract: A method of wirelessly accessing services of a server computer by a mobile communication device. The method comprises receiving a short-range radio beacon signal associated with a server computer, sending a request for information about services provided by the server computer associated with the beacon to a service registry via a long-range wireless communication link. The method further comprises, in response to receiving information about the services provided by the server computer, connecting to the server computer, accessing a service provided by the server computer. The method further comprises receiving a second beacon signal, determining that the second beacon's identity is not identified in the white list, and, in response to determining that the second beacon identity is not white listed, not attempting to access a second server computer associated with the second beacon.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09485721&OS=09485721&RS=09485721
owner: Sprint Communications Company L.P.
number: 09485721
owner_city: Overland Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150211
---
Mobile communication devices are providing more and more advanced functionality as the processing power of the devices increases. Applications or computer programs may be loaded onto the devices and executed to provide specialized functionality to the users of the devices. Some of the applications rely upon wireless communication to server computers that provide some of the information processing. The server computer may then transmit results or intermediate results to the device via a wireless communication link. The application on the device may then provide the results to the user or may complete the processing of the intermediate results received from the server computer.

In an embodiment a method of wirelessly accessing services of a server computer is disclosed. The method comprises wirelessly receiving a universal beacon by a mobile communication device wherein beacons are short range radio frequency RF signals that have a maximum effective range of less than 20 meters and extracting a beacon identity from the universal beacon by the mobile communication device. The method further comprises responsive to determining the beacon identity of the universal beacon wirelessly sending a request from the mobile communication device to a spatial server for a list of beacon identities of beacons proximate to the mobile communication device wherein the request comprises an indication of the current location of the mobile communication device and the wirelessly sending is performed over a long range RF communication link. The method further comprises receiving wirelessly over the long range RF communication link by the mobile communication device the list of beacon identities adding the list of beacon identities to a white list of beacon identities stored in the mobile communication device and receiving a beacon having a beacon identity on the white list by the mobile communication device. The method further comprises responsive to receiving the beacon identified on the white list wirelessly sending over a long range RF communication link a request from the mobile communication device to a service registry for identification of services provided by a server computer associated with the received beacon identified on the white list wherein the request to the service registry comprises the beacon identity of the beacon identified on the white list. The method further comprises receiving wirelessly over the long range RF communication link by the mobile communication device information about services provided by the server computer associated with the beacon identified on the white list establishing a communication link with the server computer by the mobile communication device and requesting service from the server computer by the mobile communication device.

In an embodiment another method of wirelessly accessing services of a server computer is disclosed. The method comprises receiving a short range radio beacon signal by a mobile communication device where the beacon signal is associated with a server computer and determining by the mobile communication device that a beacon identity of the beacon signal is identified in a white list stored by the mobile communication device. The method further comprises in response to determining that the beacon identity is white listed sending a request for information about services provided by the server computer associated with the beacon signal by the mobile communication device to a service registry via a long range wireless communication link. The method further comprises in response to receiving information about the services provided by the server computer from the service registry connecting to the server computer accessing service provided by the server computer and receiving a second short range radio beacon signal by the mobile communication device. The method further comprises determining by the mobile communication device that a second beacon identity of the second beacon signal is not identified in the white list and in response to determining that the second beacon identity is not white listed not attempting by the mobile communication device to access a second server computer associated with the second beacon.

In yet another embodiment a method of wirelessly accessing services of a server computer is disclosed. The method comprises receiving a universal beacon by a mobile communication device wherein beacons are short range radio frequency RF signals that have a maximum effective range of less than 20 meters and in response to receiving the universal beacon the mobile communication device sending a request for a list of locating beacons to a spatial server. The method further comprises receiving a list of locating beacons by the mobile communication device and determining by the mobile communication device a received signal strength of one or more of the locating beacons identified in the received list. The method further comprises sending by the mobile communication device a request to the spatial server for a list of service beacons wherein the request comprises information on the received signal strength of the one or more locating beacons whereby the spatial server determines a location of the mobile communication device at least in part based on the information on the signal strength of the one or more locating beacons and receiving a list of service beacons by the mobile communication device from the spatial server. The method further comprises requesting information about a service provided by a server computer associated with one of the service beacons identified in the received list of service beacons from a service registry by the mobile communication device communicatively coupling to the server computer by the mobile communication device and accessing the service provided by the server computer by the mobile communication device.

These and other features will be more clearly understood from the following detailed description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings and claims.

It should be understood at the outset that although illustrative implementations of one or more embodiments are illustrated below the disclosed systems and methods may be implemented using any number of techniques whether currently known or not yet in existence. The disclosure should in no way be limited to the illustrative implementations drawings and techniques illustrated below but may be modified within the scope of the appended claims along with their full scope of equivalents.

Wireless beacons may be used to identify a service for example a service provided by a server computer. A wireless beacon is a short range radio frequency signal that broadcasts an identity. The wireless beacon may be proximate to but autonomous from the computer that provides the service identified by the beacon. Alternatively the wireless beacon may be coupled to the computer that provides the service for example the wireless beacon may be provided by a peripheral device of the server computer. Alerted to the presence of the server computer by the beacon mobile communication devices may attempt to connect to and to access the services provided by the server computer. The mobile communication device however may not know what service is associated with a wireless beacon for example when the user of the mobile communication device is traveling or when a new service is first deployed. The present disclosure teaches a service registry that promotes a mobile communication device using information transmitted by the wireless beacon to index into the registry to look up the services provided by the server computer associated with the wireless beacon. The service registry may further provide connection information for the service for example a WiFi security code or other connection information. The service registry may be provided by a server computer.

Some mobile communication devices may restrict the wireless beacons that will be responded to using a list of allowed wireless beacons. For example an application executing on the mobile communication device that supports accessing services may not respond to a wireless beacon if it is not explicitly identified in a white list maintained by the application. This function may provide some security for the mobile communication device. To promote refreshment and extension of the white list the mobile communication device may send a request to a spatial server for a list of allowed wireless beacons proximate to the mobile communication device. The request may identify a current location of the mobile communication device. Alternatively the request may provide information that the spatial server can interpret to identify the location of the mobile communication device. For example the mobile communication device may send information associated with a signal transmitted by a universal wireless beacon that the mobile communication device receives and the spatial server may infer the location of the mobile communication device from the location of the subject universal wireless beacon. The spatial server returns a list of approved wireless beacons or identities of wireless beacons to the mobile communication device in response to the request. The spatial server may select the transmitted list of approved wireless beacons from a larger list of approved wireless beacons based on the location of the mobile communication device for example selecting those approved wireless beacons estimated to be within short radio range of the mobile communication device.

As used herein a universal wireless beacon is a wireless beacon that is universally known to a set of mobile communication devices for example the set of mobile communication devices configured to interoperate with the spatial server and or service registry described herein. A universal wireless beacon may broadcast a universal identity that comprises a universal part an identity that is the same from all universal wireless beacons and a unique part an identity that is unique to the specific universal wireless beacon. The mobile communication device may be configured to recognize the universal part of the universal identity e.g. the universal part of the universal identity may be white listed in the mobile communication device . Alternatively a universal wireless beacon may broadcast a unique identity and the set of mobile communication devices may be configured with a list of the unique identities of the universal wireless beacons.

In an embodiment the spatial server may respond to the request from the mobile communication device with a list of spatial wireless beacons in proximity to the universal wireless beacon identified in the request. The mobile communication device may identify which of the spatial wireless beacons identified by the spatial server that it is able to receive. The mobile device may determine a received signal strength of each of those received spatial wireless beacons and transmit the list of identities of the received spatial wireless beacons and the associated received signal strength to the spatial server. The spatial server knows the locations of the spatial wireless beacons and may analyze the list of received spatial wireless beacons and their associated received signal strength to infer the location of the mobile communication device. Based on the inferred location of the mobile communication device the spatial server sends a list of allowed wireless beacons that are proximate to the mobile communication device.

The service registry helps the mobile communication device to discover and benefit from services that may be newly deployed or may be in an area the device has not been in before. This can provide increased functionality and satisfaction to users of mobile communication devices. Additionally the optional spatial server can provide some security in this dynamic service discovery system protecting the mobile communication device from malicious or rogue servers.

Turning now to a system is described. In an embodiment system comprises a mobile communication device a base transceiver station BTS a network a service registry server and a service platform . The mobile communication device may be a mobile phone a smart phone a personal digital assistant PDA a media player a laptop computer a notebook computer a tablet computer a wearable computer or a headset computer. The mobile device comprises a long range radio transceiver a processor a memory and a short range radio transceiver . In an embodiment the mobile communication device may not comprise the short range radio transceiver but instead may comprise a short range radio receiver not shown . The memory of the mobile communication device may store an application a beacon discovery application and an approved beacon list .

The BTS may provide a wireless communication link to the mobile communication device and couple the device to the network . The BTS may provide the wireless communication link using one or more of a code division multiple access CDMA a global system for mobile communications GSM a long term evolution LTE or a worldwide interoperability for microwave access WiMAX wireless protocol. When the mobile communication device and the BTS communicate according to LTE the mobile communication device may be referred to as a user equipment UE and the BTS may be referred to as an enhanced node B eNB .

The long range radio transceiver and the BTS may be said to communicate via a long range radio link. As used herein a long range radio link may operate over a range that extends from a short range to a maximum effective range of about 1 mile to a maximum effective range of about 3 miles to a maximum effective range of about 5 miles or to a maximum effective range of about 10 miles.

As used herein the maximum effective range of a radio communication link and or a radio transceiver is the maximum distance that the radio communication link can provide reliable service under normal conditions. It may be that a radio signal can be detected at a distance that considerably exceeds the maximum effective range but the information content of the radio signal may not be reliably received at that distance and hence this greater distance would not be considered to define the maximum effective range. Likewise it may be that a radio signal can be received reliably at a distance that considerably exceeds the maximum effective range under abnormal conditions such as an adventitious multipath condition under which the radio signal is boosted but again this greater distance would not be considered to define the maximum effective range.

In some contexts the long range radio link may be referred to as a macrocellular radio link. The network may be one or more public communication networks one or more private networks or a combination thereof. While only one mobile communication device one BTS one service registry server and one service platform are illustrated in it is understood that the system may comprise any number of devices BTSs service registry servers and or service platforms .

The service platform may be implemented as a server computer. A radio beacon may be associated with the service platform . For example the radio beacon may be located near but autonomous from the service platform . The radio beacon may be adhered to an enclosure of the service platform or to a wall near the service platform . The radio beacon may sit on top of the enclosure of the service platform . Alternatively the radio beacon may be a peripheral device of a server computer that implements the service platform . For example the radio beacon may be a circuit card in a slot of the server computer that implements the service platform . The area of proximity of the beacon to the service platform indicates that there is not a physical connection of the beacon to the service platform. The service platform comprises a service application and an optional short range radio transceiver . The service application provides a service to requesting devices for example to the mobile communication device . The service may be a badge reader service at a building entrance that controls access to the building or in an elevator car that controls access to different floors of a building. The service may be a display controller that provides access to a display screen for example allows the mobile communication device to wirelessly transmit charts for presentation or to wirelessly stream a video for presentation on the display. It is understood that a wide variety of services are contemplated as compatible with the system disclosed herein and services yet to be invented or developed.

The radio beacon may be a short range radio transmitter. The beacon may be a Bluetooth beacon. The beacon may use another radio communication protocol. As used herein a short range radio transmitter may be radio that has an effective range of less than about 500 feet. Alternatively a short range radio transmitter may have an effective range of less than about 100 feet. Alternatively a short range radio transmitter may have an effective range of less than about 50 feet. The beacon may transmit a beacon or radio message that uniquely identifies the beacon . The beacon may transmit its identification radio message substantially continuously. Alternatively the beacon may transmit its identification radio message periodically for example every 10 seconds every minute every 5 minutes or at some other periodic rate.

In an embodiment when the device receives the short range radio signal transmitted by the radio beacon the beacon discovery application determines the unique identity of the radio beacon . The beacon discovery application sends a look up request for the services associated with the unique identity of the radio beacon to the service registry server . The request is transmitted over the wireless link provided by the BTS to the network and from the network to the service registry server . In some contexts it may be said that the request is transmitted over the macro cellular network. When the service registry server receives a request from the mobile communication device the service registry server uses the unique identity of the radio beacon to look up the services provided by the service platform associated with the radio beacon . The information about the services may include information identifying and describing the services as well as information that identifies an interface or application programming interface API through which to invoke the services. In an embodiment the service registry server may additionally look up connection information about how to establish a communication session with the service platform for example a uniform resource locator URL an IP address security tokens and or other access information. The service registry server then returns the information on the services provided by the service platform and optionally the connection information to the mobile communication device .

The beacon discovery application may add a widget or icon to the screen of the mobile device . Alternatively the beacon discovery application may include the service provided by the service platform in a list of other services that may be accessed by the user clicking on an icon widget or control button of the device . When the user selects the subject service for example by clicking on the name of the service the service platform may install a client application on the device . When the user selects the client application the client application may establish a communication connection to the service platform and the service application . The communication connection may be provided via a wireless communication link between the mobile device and the service platform for example between the short range radio transceiver and the short range radio transceiver . Alternatively the communication connection may be provided via a wireless link between the BTS and the mobile device and from the BTS to the network to the service platform . When establishing the communication connection the client application may provide security tokens that were obtained from the service registry server to the service application .

Turning now to a system is described. The perimeter of a short range radio reception area of the mobile communication device described above with reference to may be abstractly represented by the dotted line circle . It is understood that in practice the limits of short range radio reception of the mobile device may not be circular but may be oval asymmetrical lopsided. The idealized circle is merely an abstraction for purposes of discussion. A universal radio beacon denoted by a circle with a U in the circle a plurality of unknown radio beacons denoted by a circle with an X in the circle and a plurality of white listed radio beacons denoted by a circle with an A in the circle are located within the reception perimeter of the mobile device .

The universal radio beacon may have an identity that comprises a universal identity portion and a unique portion. The universal identity portion of the identity may be stored in the approved beacon list . Alternatively the universal identity portion of the identity may be coded into the beacon discovery application . Alternatively the universal radio beacon may have an identity that is unique and the mobile communication device may be configured with a set of identities of universal radio beacons across a service area for example across the whole United States or across the wireless communication service area of a wireless communication service provider for example stored in the approved beacon list or coded into the beacon discovery application .

The white listed radio beacons may be identified in the approved beacon list stored in the memory of the mobile device . The identities of the unknown radio beacons are not stored in the approved beacon list . This may be because the unknown radio beacons have not previously been discovered by the mobile device . Alternatively one or more of the unknown radio beacons may have been determined to be associated with service platforms that distribute spam i.e. unsolicited commercial promotions or other undesirable behavior. On the other hand some of the unknown radio beacons e.g. not white listed may be associated with service platforms that are not affiliated with a mobile communication service provider providing wireless service to the mobile communication device for example service platforms that are affiliated with a business competitor of the service provider.

When the mobile communication device first receives the signal transmitted by the universal radio beacon the beacon discovery application may communicate via the long range radio transceiver and the BTS via the network to the service registry server . In some contexts the reception by the mobile device of the short range radio signal transmitted by the universal radio beacon may be said to trigger the mobile device to communicate to the service registry server . The beacon discovery application may send the complete identity of the universal radio beacon e.g. a universal identity portion and a unique identity portion to the service registry server . The service registry server may infer the location of the mobile communication device from a known location of the universal radio beacon . That is the service registry server may know the location of the universal radio beacon may know the maximum radio range of the radio beacon radiated by the universal radio beacon and infer from this information an approximate location of the mobile communication device . Using the inferred location of the mobile device the service registry server may look up approved radio beacons that are proximate to the mobile device and send a list of the identities of these proximate approved radio beacons to the mobile device . The beacon discovery application may store the identities of the proximate approved radio beacons in the approved beacon list .

The beacon discovery application may send an additional request to the service registry server via the long range radio transceiver to learn what services are offered by the service platforms to which the proximate approved radio beacons are associated and optionally to learn the details of how to connect to those service platforms e.g. to learn one or more of security tokens universal reference locators IP addresses and the like . The mobile device may store this information with the identities of the approved radio beacons in the approved beacon list or alternatively elsewhere in memory. This process may be referred to as service discovery.

In an embodiment the mobile device may undergo the service discovery process only the first time it enters the radio reception area of the universal radio beacon . Alternatively the mobile device may repeat the service discovery process based on receiving the signal of the same universal radio beacon periodically. This may result in refreshing the approved beacon list . For example a new service platform proximate to the universal radio beacon may be added to the list of approved radio beacons maintained by the service registry server after the first service discovery process is performed by the beacon discovery application . Additionally repeating the service discovery process may promote removing defunct approved radio beacons from the approved beacon list for example when a service platform is removed from operation. For example the beacon discovery application may remove wireless beacons from the approved beacon list if they are not returned in the list of approved radio beacons associated with a same universal beacon identity and or with a same general location. Likewise the mobile device may periodically repeat the process of requesting information about the services provided by and the information for connecting with the service platforms . This may support learning of new services deployed by the already known service platforms and or learning of changed communication connection information.

Turning now to a system is described. The system comprises elements described above with reference to and . The system further comprises one or more locating radio beacons denoted by a circle with an L in the circle . The system may be referred to in some contexts as a multi tier service discovery system.

When the mobile device detects the radio signal transmitted by the universal radio beacon the beacon discovery application sends a request to the service registry server along with the identity of the universal radio beacon . The service registry server knows the location of the universal radio beacon and based on the known location of the universal radio beacon looks up one or more locating radio beacons that are proximate to the universal radio beacon and sends the radio beacon identities of these locating radio beacons to the beacon discovery application . The beacon discovery application determines which of the radio signals of the identified locating radio beacons it can receive. The radio signal strength of the received locating radio beacons is determined. The beacon discovery application sends a request to the service registry server for proximate approved radio beacons along with the identities of the received locating radio beacons and their associated received signal strengths.

The service registry server analyzes the received signal strengths of the identified locating radio beacons to determine a location of the mobile communication device . Based on the determined location of the mobile communication device the service registry server looks up proximate approved radio beacons in the data store and returns the identities of the proximate approved radio beacons to the beacon discovery application . The mobile device stores the identities of the proximate approved radio beacons in the approved beacon list and stores any connection information it receives. The mobile device may then request information about the services provided by the proximate approved radio beacons and any connection information associated with the service platforms . The multi tiered radio beacon discovery system may provide more accurate locating information and this may provide better access to services provided by service platforms for the mobile device .

Turning now to and a method is described. At block wirelessly receive a universal beacon by a mobile communication device wherein beacons are short range radio frequency RF signals that have a maximum effective range of less than 20 meters. At block extract a beacon identity from the universal beacon by the mobile communication device. At block responsive to determining the beacon identity of the universal beacon wirelessly sending a request from the mobile communication device to a spatial server for a list of beacon identities of beacons proximate to the mobile communication device wherein the request comprises an indication of the current location of the mobile communication device and the wirelessly sending is performed over a long range RF communication link.

At block wirelessly receive the list of beacon identities over the long range RF communication link by the mobile communication device. At block add the list of beacon identities to a white list of beacon identities stored in the mobile communication device. At block receive a beacon having a beacon identity on the white list by the mobile communication device. At block responsive to receiving the beacon identified on the white list wirelessly send over a long range RF communication link a request from the mobile communication device to a service registry for identification of services provided by a server computer associated with the received beacon identified on the white list wherein the request to the service registry comprises the beacon identity of the beacon identified on the white list.

At block wirelessly receive information about services provided by the server computer associated with the beacon identified on the white list over the long range RF communication link by the mobile communication device. The received information may comprise an identification and or description of the services provided by the server computer e.g. the service platform . The received information may comprise identification and or description of an interface or API for accessing the services. The received information may comprise connection information URL IP address or other and or security tokens for connecting to the server computer. At block establish a communication link with the server computer by the mobile communication device. At block request service from the server computer by the mobile communication device.

Turning now to a method is described. At block receive a short range radio beacon signal by a mobile communication device where the beacon signal is associated with a server computer. At block determine by the mobile communication device that a beacon identity of the beacon signal is identified in a white list stored by the mobile communication device. At block in response to determining that the beacon identity is white listed send a request for information about services provided by the server computer associated with the beacon signal by the mobile communication device to a service registry via a long range wireless communication link.

At block in response to receiving information about the services provided by the server computer from the service registry connecting to the server computer. At block access service provided by the server computer. At block receive a second short range radio beacon signal by the mobile communication device. At block determine by the mobile communication device that a second beacon identity of the second beacon signal is not identified in the white list. At block in response to determining that the second beacon identity is not white listed not attempting by the mobile communication device to access a second server computer associated with the second beacon.

Turning now to a method is described. At block receive a universal beacon by a mobile communication device wherein beacons are short range radio frequency RF signals that have a maximum effective range of less than 20 meters. At block in response to receiving the universal beacon the mobile communication device sends a request for a list of locating beacons to a spatial server. At block receive a list of locating beacons by the mobile communication device.

At block determine by the mobile communication device a received signal strength of one or more of the locating beacons identified in the received list those radio beacons that the mobile device can receive . At block send by the mobile communication device a request to the spatial server for a list of service beacons wherein the request comprises information on the received signal strength of the one or more locating beacons whereby the spatial server determines a location of the mobile communication device at least in part based on the information on the signal strength of the one or more locating beacons. It is understood that the spatial server knows the location of location beacons.

At block receive a list of service beacons by the mobile communication device from the spatial server. At block request information about a service provided by a server computer associated with one of the service beacons identified in the received list of service beacons from a service registry by the mobile communication device. At block communicatively couple to the server computer by the mobile communication device. At block access the service provided by the server computer by the mobile communication device.

The DSP or some other form of controller or central processing unit operates to control the various components of the mobile device in accordance with embedded software or firmware stored in memory or stored in memory contained within the DSP itself. In addition to the embedded software or firmware the DSP may execute other applications stored in the memory or made available via information carrier media such as portable data storage media like the removable memory card or via wired or wireless network communications. The application software may comprise a compiled set of machine readable instructions that configure the DSP to provide the desired functionality or the application software may be high level software instructions to be processed by an interpreter or compiler to indirectly configure the DSP .

The DSP may communicate with a wireless network via the analog baseband processing unit . In some embodiments the communication may provide Internet connectivity enabling a user to gain access to content on the Internet and to send and receive e mail or text messages. The input output interface interconnects the DSP and various memories and interfaces. The memory and the removable memory card may provide software and data to configure the operation of the DSP . Among the interfaces may be the USB port and the infrared port . The USB port may enable the mobile device to function as a peripheral device to exchange information with a personal computer or other computer system. The infrared port and other optional ports such as a Bluetooth interface or an IEEE 802.11 compliant wireless interface may enable the mobile device to communicate wirelessly with other nearby handsets and or wireless base stations. In an embodiment the device may comprise a near field communication NFC transceiver. The NFC transceiver may be used to complete payment transactions with point of sale terminals or other communications exchanges. In an embodiment the device may comprise a radio frequency identify RFID reader and or writer device.

The keypad couples to the DSP via the input output interface to provide one mechanism for the user to make selections enter information and otherwise provide input to the mobile device . Another input mechanism may be the touch screen LCD which may also display text and or graphics to the user. The touch screen LCD controller couples the DSP to the touch screen LCD . The GPS receiver is coupled to the DSP to decode global positioning system signals thereby enabling the mobile device to determine its position.

It is understood that by programming and or loading executable instructions onto the computer system at least one of the CPU the RAM and the ROM are changed transforming the computer system in part into a particular machine or apparatus having the novel functionality taught by the present disclosure. It is fundamental to the electrical engineering and software engineering arts that functionality that can be implemented by loading executable software into a computer can be converted to a hardware implementation by well known design rules. Decisions between implementing a concept in software versus hardware typically hinge on considerations of stability of the design and numbers of units to be produced rather than any issues involved in translating from the software domain to the hardware domain. Generally a design that is still subject to frequent change may be preferred to be implemented in software because re spinning a hardware implementation is more expensive than re spinning a software design. Generally a design that is stable that will be produced in large volume may be preferred to be implemented in hardware for example in an application specific integrated circuit ASIC because for large production runs the hardware implementation may be less expensive than the software implementation. Often a design may be developed and tested in a software form and later transformed by well known design rules to an equivalent hardware implementation in an application specific integrated circuit that hardwires the instructions of the software. In the same manner as a machine controlled by a new ASIC is a particular machine or apparatus likewise a computer that has been programmed and or loaded with executable instructions may be viewed as a particular machine or apparatus.

Additionally after the system is turned on or booted the CPU may execute a computer program or application. For example the CPU may execute software or firmware stored in the ROM or stored in the RAM . In some cases on boot and or when the application is initiated the CPU may copy the application or portions of the application from the secondary storage to the RAM or to memory space within the CPU itself and the CPU may then execute instructions that the application is comprised of. In some cases the CPU may copy the application or portions of the application from memory accessed via the network connectivity devices or via the I O devices to the RAM or to memory space within the CPU and the CPU may then execute instructions that the application is comprised of. During execution an application may load instructions into the CPU for example load some of the instructions of the application into a cache of the CPU . In some contexts an application that is executed may be said to configure the CPU to do something e.g. to configure the CPU to perform the function or functions promoted by the subject application. When the CPU is configured in this way by the application the CPU becomes a specific purpose computer or a specific purpose machine.

The secondary storage is typically comprised of one or more disk drives or tape drives and is used for non volatile storage of data and as an over flow data storage device if RAM is not large enough to hold all working data. Secondary storage may be used to store programs which are loaded into RAM when such programs are selected for execution. The ROM is used to store instructions and perhaps data which are read during program execution. ROM is a non volatile memory device which typically has a small memory capacity relative to the larger memory capacity of secondary storage . The RAM is used to store volatile data and perhaps to store instructions. Access to both ROM and RAM is typically faster than to secondary storage . The secondary storage the RAM and or the ROM may be referred to in some contexts as computer readable storage media and or non transitory computer readable media.

I O devices may include printers video monitors liquid crystal displays LCDs touch screen displays keyboards keypads switches dials mice track balls voice recognizers card readers paper tape readers or other well known input devices.

The network connectivity devices may take the form of modems modem banks Ethernet cards universal serial bus USB interface cards serial interfaces token ring cards fiber distributed data interface FDDI cards wireless local area network WLAN cards radio transceiver cards that promote radio communications using protocols such as code division multiple access CDMA global system for mobile communications GSM long term evolution LTE worldwide interoperability for microwave access WiMAX near field communications NFC radio frequency identity RFID and or other air interface protocol radio transceiver cards and other well known network devices. These network connectivity devices may enable the processor to communicate with the Internet or one or more intranets. With such a network connection it is contemplated that the processor might receive information from the network or might output information to the network in the course of performing the above described method steps. Such information which is often represented as a sequence of instructions to be executed using processor may be received from and outputted to the network for example in the form of a computer data signal embodied in a carrier wave.

Such information which may include data or instructions to be executed using processor for example may be received from and outputted to the network for example in the form of a computer data baseband signal or signal embodied in a carrier wave. The baseband signal or signal embedded in the carrier wave or other types of signals currently used or hereafter developed may be generated according to several methods well known to one skilled in the art. The baseband signal and or signal embedded in the carrier wave may be referred to in some contexts as a transitory signal.

The processor executes instructions codes computer programs scripts which it accesses from hard disk floppy disk optical disk these various disk based systems may all be considered secondary storage flash drive ROM RAM or the network connectivity devices . While only one processor is shown multiple processors may be present. Thus while instructions may be discussed as executed by a processor the instructions may be executed simultaneously serially or otherwise executed by one or multiple processors. Instructions codes computer programs scripts and or data that may be accessed from the secondary storage for example hard drives floppy disks optical disks and or other device the ROM and or the RAM may be referred to in some contexts as non transitory instructions and or non transitory information.

In an embodiment the computer system may comprise two or more computers in communication with each other that collaborate to perform a task. For example but not by way of limitation an application may be partitioned in such a way as to permit concurrent and or parallel processing of the instructions of the application. Alternatively the data processed by the application may be partitioned in such a way as to permit concurrent and or parallel processing of different portions of a data set by the two or more computers. In an embodiment virtualization software may be employed by the computer system to provide the functionality of a number of servers that is not directly bound to the number of computers in the computer system . For example virtualization software may provide twenty virtual servers on four physical computers. In an embodiment the functionality disclosed above may be provided by executing the application and or applications in a cloud computing environment. Cloud computing may comprise providing computing services via a network connection using dynamically scalable computing resources. Cloud computing may be supported at least in part by virtualization software. A cloud computing environment may be established by an enterprise and or may be hired on an as needed basis from a third party provider. Some cloud computing environments may comprise cloud computing resources owned and operated by the enterprise as well as cloud computing resources hired and or leased from a third party provider.

In an embodiment some or all of the functionality disclosed above may be provided as a computer program product. The computer program product may comprise one or more computer readable storage medium having computer usable program code embodied therein to implement the functionality disclosed above. The computer program product may comprise data structures executable instructions and other computer usable program code. The computer program product may be embodied in removable computer storage media and or non removable computer storage media. The removable computer readable storage medium may comprise without limitation a paper tape a magnetic tape magnetic disk an optical disk a solid state memory chip for example analog magnetic tape compact disk read only memory CD ROM disks floppy disks jump drives digital cards multimedia cards and others. The computer program product may be suitable for loading by the computer system at least portions of the contents of the computer program product to the secondary storage to the ROM to the RAM and or to other non volatile memory and volatile memory of the computer system . The processor may process the executable instructions and or data structures in part by directly accessing the computer program product for example by reading from a CD ROM disk inserted into a disk drive peripheral of the computer system . Alternatively the processor may process the executable instructions and or data structures by remotely accessing the computer program product for example by downloading the executable instructions and or data structures from a remote server through the network connectivity devices . The computer program product may comprise instructions that promote the loading and or copying of data data structures files and or executable instructions to the secondary storage to the ROM to the RAM and or to other non volatile memory and volatile memory of the computer system .

In some contexts the secondary storage the ROM and the RAM may be referred to as a non transitory computer readable medium or a computer readable storage media. A dynamic RAM embodiment of the RAM likewise may be referred to as a non transitory computer readable medium in that while the dynamic RAM receives electrical power and is operated in accordance with its design for example during a period of time during which the computer system is turned on and operational the dynamic RAM stores information that is written to it. Similarly the processor may comprise an internal RAM an internal ROM a cache memory and or other internal non transitory storage blocks sections or components that may be referred to in some contexts as non transitory computer readable media or computer readable storage media.

While several embodiments have been provided in the present disclosure it should be understood that the disclosed systems and methods may be embodied in many other specific forms without departing from the spirit or scope of the present disclosure. The present examples are to be considered as illustrative and not restrictive and the intention is not to be limited to the details given herein. For example the various elements or components may be combined or integrated in another system or certain features may be omitted or not implemented.

Also techniques systems subsystems and methods described and illustrated in the various embodiments as discrete or separate may be combined or integrated with other systems modules techniques or methods without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. Other items shown or discussed as directly coupled or communicating with each other may be indirectly coupled or communicating through some interface device or intermediate component whether electrically mechanically or otherwise. Other examples of changes substitutions and alterations are ascertainable by one skilled in the art and could be made without departing from the spirit and scope disclosed herein.

