---

title: Method for providing content and electronic device thereof
abstract: A method and an electronic device are provided herein. The electronic device includes a processor. The processor may execute the method, including detecting, by a sensor, heart rate information while providing a content of the electronic device, determining, by a processor, an emotional quotient based on the detected heart rate information, and mapping the determined emotional quotient to the provided content.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09641665&OS=09641665&RS=09641665
owner: Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.
number: 09641665
owner_city: Yeongtong-gu, Suwon-si, Gyeonggi-do
owner_country: KR
publication_date: 20150828
---
The present application is related to and claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. 119 a of a Korean Patent Application Serial No. 10 2014 0114325 which was filed in the Korean Intellectual Property Office on Aug. 29 2014 the entire disclosure of which is hereby incorporated by reference.

Electronic devices have gradually grown in complexity and capacity to perform one or more functions. Moreover modern electronic devices are represented mainly by mobile terminals more colloquially referred to as smart phones . An electronic device such as a mobile terminal typically includes a large screen touch sensitive display module and a high pixel camera module other than a basic function which is communication with a counterpart so that a still image or video can be photographed and a web surfing may be performed by connecting to a network. Recently the electronic device further include a high performance processor and thus can perform many diverse functions.

An electronic device may acquire user heart rate information e.g. a heart rate of a user of the electronic device through a heart rate measurement sensor. Sometimes the electronic device does not provide additional information beyond displaying the acquired heart rate information on a screen.

Accordingly one aspect of the present disclosure is to provide a method and an apparatus for mapping an emotional quotient according to heart rate information to content and providing the mapped emotional quotient together when the content is provided.

In another aspect of the present disclosure a method of operating an electronic device is provided. The method includes detecting by a sensor heart rate information while providing a content of the electronic device determining by a processor an emotional quotient based on the detected heart rate information and mapping the determined emotional quotient to the provided content.

In another aspect of the present disclosure an electronic device is provided. The electronic device includes a display and a processor configured to detect by a sensor operatively coupled with the electronic device heart rate information while providing content of the electronic device determine an emotional quotient based on the detected heart rate information and map the determined emotional quotient to the provided content.

Hereinafter various embodiments of the present disclosure will be described with reference to the accompanying drawings. The present disclosure may be modified in various forms and include various embodiments but specific examples are illustrated in the drawings and described in the description. However the description is not intended to limit the present disclosure to the specific embodiments and it shall be appreciated that all the changes equivalents and substitutions belonging to the present disclosure. In the description of the drawings identical or similar reference numerals are used to designate identical or similar elements.

The term include or may include refers to the existence of a corresponding disclosed function operation or component which can be used in various embodiments of the present disclosure and does not limit one or more additional functions operations or components. In the present disclosure the terms such as include or have may be construed to denote a certain characteristic number step operation constituent element component or a combination thereof but may not be construed to exclude the existence of or a possibility of addition of one or more other characteristics numbers steps operations constituent elements components or combinations thereof.

In various embodiments of the present disclosure the expression or or at least one of A or and B includes any or all of combinations of words listed together. For example the expression A or B or at least A or and B may include A may include B or may include both A and B.

The expression 1 2 first or second used in various embodiments of the present disclosure may modify various components of various embodiments but does not limit the corresponding components. For example the above expressions do not limit the sequence and or importance of the elements. The above expressions are used merely for the purpose of distinguishing an element from the other elements. For example a first electronic device and a second electronic device indicate different electronic devices although both of them are electronic devices. For example without departing from the present disclosure a first component element may be named a second component element. Similarly the second component element also may be named the first component element.

In the case where an element is referred to as being connected or accessed to other elements it should be understood that not only the element is directly connected or accessed to the other elements but also another element may exist between them. Meanwhile in the case where an element is referred to as being directly connected to or directly accessing other elements it should be understood that there is no element therebetween.

The terms in various embodiments of the present disclosure are used to describe a specific embodiment and are not intended to limit the present disclosure. As used herein the singular forms are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise.

Unless defined differently all terms used herein which include technical terminologies or scientific terminologies have the same meaning as a person skilled in the art to which the present disclosure belongs. Such terms as those defined in a generally used dictionary are to be interpreted to have the meanings equal to the contextual meanings in the relevant field of art and are not to be interpreted to have ideal or excessively formal meanings unless clearly defined in the present disclosure.

An electronic device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure may be a device with a communication function. For example the electronic device may include at least one of a smart phone a tablet Personal Computer PC a mobile phone a video phone an e book reader a desktop PC a laptop PC a netbook computer a PDA a Portable Multimedia Player PMP an MP3 player a mobile medical device a camera a wearable device for example a Head Mounted Device HMD such as electronic glasses electronic clothes an electronic bracelet an electronic necklace an electronic appcessory an electronic tattoo and or a smart watch.

According to some embodiments the electronic device may be a smart home appliance with a communication function. The smart home appliance as an example of the electronic device may include at least one of a television a Digital Video Disk DVD player an audio a refrigerator an air conditioner a vacuum cleaner an oven a microwave oven a washing machine an air cleaner a set top box a TV box e.g. Samsung HomeSync Apple TV or Google TV a game console an electronic dictionary an electronic key a camcorder and or an electronic picture frame.

According to some embodiments the electronic device may include at least one of various types of medical devices for example Magnetic Resonance Angiography MRA Magnetic Resonance Imaging MRI Computed Tomography CT a scanning machine ultrasonic wave device and the like a navigation device a Global Positioning System GPS receiver an Event Data Recorder EDR a Flight Data Recorder FDR a car infotainment device ship electronic equipment for example navigation equipment for a ship a gyro compass and the like avionics a security device and or an industrial or home robot.

According to another embodiment the electronic devices may include at least one of furniture or a part of a building structure having a communication function electronic boards electronic signature receiving devices projectors or various measuring equipment e.g. equipment for a water supply an electricity gases or radio waves .

An electronic device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure may be a combination of one or more of above described various devices. Also an electronic device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure may be a flexible device. Also an electronic device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure is not limited to the above described devices.

Hereinafter an electronic device according to various embodiments will be described with reference to the accompanying drawings. The term user used in various embodiments may refer to a person who uses an electronic device or a device for example an artificial intelligence electronic device that uses an electronic device.

Referring to the electronic device may include a bus a processor a memory an input output interface a display a communication interface and a heart rate information management module . According to an embodiment the heart rate information management module may be included in the processor to operate or may be included in a separate module to interwork with the processor .

The bus may be a circuit that interconnects the above described components and delivers communications for example a control message between the above described components.

The processor may for example receive a command from other components for example the memory the input output interface the display the communication interface the heart rate information management module etc. through the bus may decrypt the received command and may execute operation or data processing based on the decrypted command.

The memory may store a command or data received from the processor or other components for example the input output interface the display the communication interface the heart rate information management module and the like or generated by the processor or other components.

The memory may include programming modules for example a kernel a middleware an Application Programming Interface API an application and the like. Each of the aforementioned programming modules may be formed of software firmware hardware or a combination of at least two thereof.

According to an embodiment the kernel may control or manage system resources for example the bus the processor the memory and the like used for executing an operation or function implemented in other programming modules for example the middleware the API or the applications . Also the kernel may provide an interface that enables the middleware the API or the applications to access an individual component of the electronic device for control or management.

According to an embodiment the middleware may execute operate as a relay so that the API or the applications communicates to exchange data with the kernel . Also in association with operation requests received from the application the middleware may execute a control for example scheduling or load balancing for an operation request through use of for example a method of assigning to at least one of application a priority of use of a system resource of the electronic device for example the bus the processor the memory or the like .

According to an embodiment the API is an interface used by the applications to control a function provided from the kernel or the middleware and may include for example at least one interface or function for example an instruction for a file control a window control image processing a character control or the like.

According to an embodiment the applications may include a Short Message Service SMS Multimedia Message Service MMS application an e mail application a calendar application an alarm application a health care application for example an application for measuring a work rate or a blood sugar an environment information application for example an application for providing atmospheric pressure humidity or temperature information . Additionally or alternatively the application may be an application associated with exchanging of information between the electronic device and an external electronic device for example an electronic device . The application related to the information exchange may include for example a notification transmission application for transferring predetermined information to an external electronic device or a device management application for managing an external electronic device.

For example the notification relay application may include a function of transferring to the external electronic device for example the electronic device notification information generated from other applications of the electronic device for example an SMS MMS application an e mail application a health management application an environmental information application and the like. Additionally or alternatively the notification relay application may receive notification information from for example an external electronic device for example the electronic device and may provide the notification information to a user. For example the device management application may manage for example install delete or update a function for at least some parts of the external electronic device for example the electronic device communicating with the electronic device for example a function of turning on off the external electronic device itself or some components or a function of adjusting luminance or a resolution of the display applications operating in the external electronic device or services provided by the external electronic device for example a call service and a message service .

According to various embodiments the applications may include an application designated based on properties for example a type of electronic device of an external electronic device for example the electronic device . For example when the external electronic device is an MP3 player the application may include an application related to the reproduction of music. Similarly when the external electronic device is a mobile medical device the application may include an application related to health care. According to an one embodiment the applications may include at least one of applications received from an application designated for the electronic device or an application received from an external electronic device for example a server or the electronic device .

According to an embodiment the input output interface may transfer a command or data input by a user through an input output device for example a sensor a keyboard or a touch screen to the processor the memory the communication interface and the heart rate information management module for example through the bus . For example the input output interface may provide to the processor data associated with a touch of a user input through a touch screen. Further the input output interface may output for example command or data received through the bus from the processor the memory the communication interface and the heart rate information management module to an input output device for example a speaker or display . For example the input output interface may output voice data processed by the processor to the user through a speaker.

According to an one embodiment the display may display various pieces of information for example multimedia data text data and the like to a user.

According to one embodiment the communication interface may connect communication between the electronic device and an electronic device for example the electronic device or the server . For example the communication interface may be connected to the network through wireless communication or wired communication and may communicate with an external device. The wireless communication may include at least one of for example Wi Fi Bluetooth BT Near Field Communication NFC Global Positioning System GPS and or cellular communication for example LTE LTE A CDMA WCDMA UMTS WiBro GSM etc. . The wired communication may include at least one of for example a Universal Serial Bus USB a High Definition Multimedia Interface HDMI a Recommended Standard 232 RS 232 and or a Plain Old Telephone Service POTS .

According to one embodiment the network may be a communication network. The telecommunication network may include at least one of a computer network Internet Internet of things and or a telephone network. According to an one embodiment a protocol for example a transport lay protocol data link layer protocol or a physical layer protocol for communication between the electronic device and the external device may be supported by at least one of the applications the application programming interface the middleware the kernel and or the communication interface .

According to an embodiment a server performs at least one operation or function implemented in an electronic device to support an operation of the electronic device . For example the server may include a heart rate information management server module which supports a heart rate information management module implemented in the electronic device . For example the heart rate information management server module includes at least one component of the heart rate information management module and then may perform e.g. deputize at least one operation of operations which the heart rate information management module also performs.

The heart rate information management module may perform an operation of acquiring heart rate information when content is provided an operation of determining an emotional quotient on the basis of the acquired heart rate information and an operation of mapping the determined emotional quotient to the content.

The heart rate information management module may perform an operation of identifying whether the emotional quotient mapped to a content exists when the content is provided and an operation of providing the emotional quotient mapped to the content.

Additional information on the heart rate information management module will be provided through described below.

Referring to the heart rate information management module may include an emotional quotient determination module an emotional mapping module and a content providing module .

The emotional quotient determination module may determine an emotional quotient on the basis of user heart rate information acquired from an electronic device e.g. electronic device or an external electronic device e.g. electronic device connected to the electronic device when the electronic device provides a content.

The emotional mapping module may map an emotional quotient determined in the emotional quotient determination module to the content.

The content providing module may provide an emotional quotient mapped to the content by the emotional mapping module together with a corresponding content.

Referring to an electronic device e.g. electronic device may determine whether an emotional state is in a peaceful state or a stressed state on the basis of user heart rate information. Herein even though two examples of the emotional state determined on the basis of the user s heart rate information have been described other diverse example emotional states determined on the basis of heart rate information are contemplated in various alternative embodiments of the present disclosure. According to an embodiment the electronic device may determine user s various emotional states such as calmness happiness anger fatigue sadness surprise pain thrill and others on the basis of heart rate information.

Referring to an electronic device may acquire user heart rate information through a heart rate measurement sensor included in the electronic device . According to an embodiment the electronic device may acquire the user s heart rate information through an external electronic device communicatively connected or otherwise operatively coupled to the electronic device . According to an embodiment the external electronic device may transmit heart rate information measured from the external electronic device to the electronic device through wireless communication in response to a transmission request of the electronic device . According to an embodiment the electronic device may transmit heart rate information measured from the electronic device to the external electronic device through wireless communication on the basis of or in response to a transmission request of the external electronic device . Although two examples of a method of acquiring the user heart rate information have been described it is understood that other diverse methods of obtaining heart rate information may be utilized in other various embodiments according to the present disclosure.

Referring to in operation an electronic device e.g. electronic device may acquire heart rate information when a content is provided. According to one embodiment content may include at least one of services provided by the electronic device such as a call function an electronic book or playback of a music and or a video or execution of an application. In various embodiments of the present disclosure even though content provided by the electronic device has been described as an example it is understood the disclosure is not limited thereto.

According to one embodiment when providing the content the electronic device may then acquire heart rate information for a user who utilizing the electronic device or an external electronic device to receive the content where the electronic device or external electronic device includes a heart rate sensor. According to an embodiment the electronic device may receive user heart rate information acquired from the electronic device or external electronic device e.g. electronic device communicatively connected to the electronic device.

In operation the electronic device may determine an emotional quotient based on the acquired heart rate information. According to one embodiment the electronic device may determine or detect an emotion corresponding to and based on the heart rate information currently acquired for each piece of a preconfigured emotion. According to an embodiment the electronic device may convert the determined emotion into an icon and or a numerical value.

In operation the electronic device may map the determined emotional quotient to some content. According to an embodiment the electronic device maps an emotional quotient based on user acquired heart rate information to a corresponding content while providing a current content so that the emotional quotient mapped to the corresponding content can be provided to a user in providing the corresponding content later.

Hereinafter various embodiments will be described in which in an electronic device an emotional quotient is mapped to content when the content is provided and when a corresponding content is provided it is provided together with the mapped emotional quotient.

Referring to in operation an electronic device e.g. electronic device may identify whether a call event is generated. According to an embodiment an electronic device may identify whether a voice or video call event is generated. According to an embodiment the electronic device may identify whether an outgoing or incoming call event is generated.

In operation the electronic device may acquire heart rate information. According to an embodiment the electronic device may acquire user heart rate information through a heart rate sensor included in the electronic device. According to an embodiment the electronic device may acquire user heart rate information through an external electronic device communicatively connected to the electronic device.

In operation the electronic device may determine an emotional quotient for the user on the basis of the acquired heart rate information. According to an embodiment the electronic device may determine an emotional quotient corresponding to heart rate information acquired during or within a reference time interval. For example the electronic device may determine an emotion quotient based on heart rate information acquired during an interval defined by for example a current time point from N seconds to the current time point. In another example the electronic device may determine an emotion quotient based on heart rate information acquired during or within an interval spanning from a call start time point to a current time point.

In operation the electronic device may identify whether a call event is terminated. When the call event is not terminated the electronic device may continue to monitor and acquire heart rate information as described in operation . That is the electronic device may periodically acquire user heart rate information until the call is terminated and determine an emotional quotient based on the acquired heart rate information.

In operation the electronic device may map the determined emotional quotient to counterpart information. According to an embodiment the electronic device may store an emotion quotient based on user heart rate information acquired during an execution of a call within counterpart information e.g. contact number or the like . According to an embodiment the electronic device may store a corresponding emotional quotient with the counterpart information particularly when a call is performed over the reference time interval.

Referring to for example an operation will be described for determining an emotional quotient for a second call information which is one of multiple pieces of call information and stored in an electronic device e.g. electronic device .

According to one embodiment the electronic device may determine that user emotion corresponds to E4 during a time interval t1 and user emotion corresponds to E6 during a time interval t2 for the second call information representing the duration of the second call.

According to an embodiment the electronic device may determine a call emotional quotient for the entirety of second call information . For example one method of determining the call emotion quotient is to calculate a numerical value by multiplying a duration e.g. t2 on which one emotion e.g. E6 is maintained in during a portion of a call information representing a length of a call e.g. the second call information by a point of a corresponding emotion e.g. 4 . That is when multiple emotions exist in one call the electronic device may calculate a numerical value by multiplying a duration on which each emotion is maintained by a point corresponding to each emotion and adding each numerical value to determinate an emotional quotient. According to one embodiment the electronic device may calculate an average of points for each emotion included in one call information and then determine an overall or average emotion for the corresponding call information.

Referring to in operation an electronic device e.g. electronic device may identify whether a call event is generated. According to one embodiment an electronic device may identify whether a voice or video call event is generated. According to another embodiment the electronic device may identify whether an outgoing or incoming call event is generated.

In operation the electronic device may acquire heart rate information. According to one embodiment the electronic device may acquire user heart rate information through a heart rate sensor included in the electronic device. According to another embodiment the electronic device may acquire user heart rate information through an external electronic device in communication with the electronic device.

In operation the electronic device may determine an emotional quotient on the basis of the acquired heart rate information. According to an embodiment the electronic device may determine an emotional quotient corresponding to heart rate information acquired during a reference time interval. For example the electronic device may determine an emotion quotient on the basis of heart rate information acquired during an interval starting from a current time point to N seconds before the current time point. In another example the electronic device may determine an emotion quotient on the basis of heart rate information acquired during an interval from a call start time point to a current time point.

In operation the electronic device may display the emotional quotient determined based on the acquired heart rate information. For example according to one embodiment as shown in an external electronic device may display an emotional quotient detected based on heart rate information acquired while performing a call of a counterpart through the heart rate sensor of an external electronic device connected to the electronic device . That is the external electronic device may include a display installed thereto for display of the heart rate information and or the emotional quotient as seen in . According to one embodiment as shown in FIG.

In operation the electronic device may identify whether the call event is terminated. When the call event is not terminated the electronic device may continue to acquire heart rate information as described in operation . That is the electronic device may periodically acquire user heart rate information until the call is terminated determine an emotional quotient on the basis of the acquired heart rate information and display the determined emotional quotient.

In operation when the call event is terminated the electronic device may map the determined emotional quotient to counterpart call information. According to an embodiment the electronic device may store an emotion quotient determined on the basis of user heart rate information acquired during an execution of a call in counterpart information for the call such as for example a contact number for the contact that was just called or the like . According to one embodiment the electronic device may store a corresponding emotional quotient in the counterpart information in a case in which a call is performed over the reference time interval.

Referring to in operation an electronic device e.g. electronic device may identify whether a content providing event is generated. According to an embodiment a content providing event may including for example at least one services provided by the electronic device such as execution of a call display of an electronic book playback of music and or video and or executing an application.

When the content providing event is generated in operation the electronic device may identify whether an emotional quotient mapped to a corresponding content exists.

When the emotional quotient mapped to the corresponding content exists in operation the electronic device may provide the emotional quotient mapped to the corresponding content. Hereinafter through and various embodiments for providing emotional quotient mapped to the content will be described.

Referring to an electronic device may provide emotional quotients and for each respective call contact when providing a recent call history. That is the electronic device may display an emotional quotient determined based on user heart rate information detected by the electronic device in each call with each of the first user to fifth user. According to one embodiment the electronic device may display an emotional quotient determined in each call with at least one of an icon and or a numerical value.

As shown in and when an emotional quotient for a call with a third user in a recent call history has been selected as seen in the electronic device may provide or display details as seen in of determined in a call with the third user. According to an embodiment an electronic device may provide display the details of the emotional quotient by day week month and by year . According to an embodiment the electronic device may provide the details of the emotional quotient with a graph as shown in .

Referring to an electronic device may provide e.g. display emotional quotients according to time in providing a video content. According to one embodiment the electronic device may display icons and corresponding to and indicating emotional quotients existing at respective time points of the reproduction and playback of the video content. That is the electronic device may map emotional quotients determined from user heart rate information to respective playback locations of a corresponding video content.

Referring to an electronic device may provide or display an emotional quotient for respective songs when providing playback for audio content. That is the electronic device may map each song to an emotional quotient determined from user heart rate information as detected during playback of the respective corresponding song. Thus an emotional quotient for each song may be provided when a user accesses audio content. According to one embodiment the electronic device may arrange and display songs according to each predefined emotional quotient. According to an embodiment the electronic device may also display a song that is similar to an emotional quotient similar to a current user emotion.

Referring to an electronic device may provide or display an emotional quotient for each electronic book when providing an electronic book content. That is the electronic device maps to a corresponding electronic book an emotional quotient determined from user heart rate information detected while the corresponding electronic book is provided so that an emotional quotient for each electronic book may be provided when a user accesses the electronic book content. According to one embodiment the electronic device may arrange and display electronic books according to each respective emotional quotient. According to one embodiment the electronic device may display an electronic book that is mapped to an emotional quotient similar to a current user.

Referring to an electronic device may provide or display an emotional quotient for each page during display of electronic book content. That is the electronic device may maps to a page of a corresponding electronic book an emotional quotient determined from user heart rate information detected while the corresponding electronic book is displayed so that an emotional quotient for each page of the electronic book may be provided when a user accesses the electronic book content. According to one embodiment the electronic device may arrange and display pages of the electronic book according to each emotional quotient. According to one embodiment the electronic device may display a page of the electronic book mapped to an emotional quotient similar to current user emotion.

Referring to an electronic device may provide or display an emotional quotient for each application in providing an application list. That is the electronic device maps to a corresponding application an emotional quotient determined from user heart rate information detected while the corresponding application is executed or provided so that an emotional quotient for each application may be provided when a user accesses an application list. According to one embodiment the electronic device may arrange and display applications according to each respective emotional quotient.

According to one embodiment the electronic device may display an application to which an emotional quotient similar to a current user emotion is mapped.

According to one embodiment as shown in an electronic device may identify an application mapped to an emotional quotient similar to current user emotion quotient and then recommend or display similar applications from for example an application market. According to one embodiment the similar applications may be applications belonging to a same category in some classification of applications. According to one embodiment the similar applications may be applications belonging to same application provider.

Referring to the electronic device may include at least one Application Processor AP a communication module a Subscriber Identification Module SIM card a memory a sensor module an input device a display an interface an audio module a camera module a power management module a battery an indicator and or a motor .

The AP may control a plurality of hardware or software components connected to the AP by driving an operating system or an application program and perform processing of various pieces of data including multimedia data and calculations. The AP may for example be implemented by a system on chip SoC . According to an embodiment the AP may further include a Graphic Processing Unit GPU .

The communication module may transmit and receive data in communication between the electronic device for example the electronic device and other electronic devices for example the electronic device or the server connected thereto through a network. According to an embodiment the communication module may include a cellular module a Wi Fi module a BT module a GPS module an NFC module and a Radio Frequency RF module .

The cellular module may provide a voice call a video call a text message service or an Internet service through a communication network for example LTE LTE A CDMA WCDMA UMTS WiBro or GSM . Further the cellular module may perform identification and authentication of electronic devices in a communication network using for example a subscriber identification module for example the SIM card . According to an embodiment the cellular module may perform at least some functions which the AP may provide. For example the cellular module may perform at least some of the multimedia control functions.

According to an embodiment the cellular module may include a Communication Processor CP . Furthermore the cellular module may be implemented by for example an SoC. Although the components such as the cellular module for example a communication processor the memory and the power management module are illustrated as components separate from the AP in the AP may include at least some of the aforementioned components for example the cellular module according to one embodiment.

According to an embodiment the AP or the cellular module for example the communication processor may load a command or data received from at least one of a non volatile memory and other components connected thereto in a volatile memory and may process the loaded command or data. Furthermore the AP or the cellular module may store data received from or generated by at least one of other elements in a non volatile memory.

Each of the Wi Fi module the BT module the GPS module and the NFC module may include for example a processor for processing data transmitted received through the corresponding module. Although the cellular module the Wi Fi module the BT module the GPS module and the NFC module are illustrated as separate blocks in at least some for example two or more of the cellular module the Wi Fi module the BT module the GPS module and the NFC module may be included in one Integrated Chip IC or one IC package in one embodiment. For example at least some for example the communication processor corresponding to the cellular module and the Wi Fi processor corresponding to the Wi Fi module of the processors corresponding to the cellular module the Wi Fi module the BT module the GPS module and the NFC module may be implemented as one SoC.

The RF module may transmit receive data for example an RF signal. Although not illustrated the RF module may include for example a transceiver a Power Amp Module PAM a frequency filter a Low Noise Amplifier LNA or the like. Further the RF module may further include a component for transmitting receiving electronic waves over a free air space in wireless communication for example a conductor a conducting wire or the like. Although the cellular module the Wi Fi module the BT module the GPS module and the NFC module share one RF module in at least one of the cellular module the Wi Fi module the BT module the GPS module and or the NFC module may transmit receive an RF signal through a separate RF module in one embodiment.

The SIM card may be a card including a subscriber identification module and may be inserted into a slot formed in a particular portion of the electronic device. The SIM card may include unique identification information for example an Integrated Circuit Card IDentifier ICCID or subscriber information for example an International Mobile Subscriber IDentity IMSI .

The memory for example the memory may include an internal memory or an external memory . The internal memory may include at least one of a volatile memory for example a Dynamic Random Access Memory DRAM a Static RAM SRAM a Synchronous Dynamic RAM SDRAM and the like and a non volatile memory for example a One Time Programmable Read Only Memory OTPROM a Programmable ROM PROM an Erasable and Programmable ROM EPROM an Electrically Erasable and Programmable ROM EEPROM a mask ROM a flash ROM a NAND flash memory a NOR flash memory and or the like .

According to an embodiment the internal memory may be a Solid State Drive SSD . The external memory may further include a flash drive for example a Compact Flash CF a Secure Digital SD a Micro Secure Digital Micro SD a Mini Secure Digital Mini SD an extreme Digital xD a memory stick or the like. The external memory may be functionally connected with the electronic device through various interfaces. According to an embodiment the electronic device may further include a storage device or a storage medium such as a hard disc drive.

The sensor module may measure a physical quantity or detect an operation state of the electronic device and may convert the measured or detected information to an electrical signal. The sensor module may include at least one of for example a gesture sensor A a gyro sensor B an atmospheric pressure sensor C a magnetic sensor D an acceleration sensor E a grip sensor F a proximity sensor G a color sensor H for example a Red Green Blue RGB sensor a biometric sensor I a temperature humidity sensor J an illumination sensor K and or an Ultra Violet UV sensor M. Additionally or alternatively the sensor module may include for example an E nose sensor not illustrated an electromyography EMG sensor not illustrated an electroencephalogram EEG sensor not illustrated an electrocardiogram ECG sensor not illustrated an Infrared IR sensor not illustrated an iris sensor not illustrated and a fingerprint sensor not illustrated . The sensor module may further include a control circuit for controlling one or more sensors included in the sensor module.

The input device may include a touch panel a digital pen sensor a key or an ultrasonic input device . The touch panel may recognize a touch input through at least one of for example a capacitive type a resistive type an infrared type and or an ultrasonic type. The touch panel may further include a control circuit. A capacitive touch panel may recognize a physical contact or proximity. The touch panel may further include a tactile layer. In this case the touch panel may provide a tactile reaction to the user.

The digital pen sensor may be implemented for example using the same or similar method to receiving a user s touch input or using a separate recognition sheet. The key may include for example a physical button an optical key or a keypad. The ultrasonic input device may identify data by detecting an acoustic wave with a microphone for example a microphone of the electronic device through an input unit generating an ultrasonic signal and may perform wireless recognition. According to an embodiment the electronic device may receive a user input from an external device for example a computer or server connected thereto using the communication module .

The display may be installed to the electronic device and include a panel a hologram device or a projector . The panel may be for example a Liquid Crystal Display LCD Active Matrix Organic Light Emitting Diode AM OLED or the like. The panel may be implemented to be for example flexible transparent or wearable. The panel may be configured as one module together with the touch panel . The hologram device may show a stereoscopic image in the air by using interference of light. The projector may project light onto a screen to display an image. The screen may be located for example inside or outside the electronic device . According to an embodiment the display may further include a control circuit for controlling the panel the hologram device or the projector .

The interface may include for example a High Definition Multimedia Interface HDMI a Universal Serial Bus USB an optical interface or a D subminiature D sub . The interface may be included in for example the communication interface illustrated in . Additionally or alternatively the interface may include for example a Mobile High definition Link MHL interface a Secure Digital SD card Multi Media Card MMC interface or an Infrared Data Association IrDA standard interface.

The audio module may bilaterally convert a sound and an electrical signal. The audio module may process sound information input or output through for example a speaker a receiver earphones the microphone or the like.

The camera module is a device for capturing a still image or a video and according to an embodiment may include one or more image sensors for example a front sensor or a rear sensor a lens not illustrated an Image Signal Processor ISP not illustrated or a flash not illustrated for example an LED or xenon lamp .

The power management module may manage power of the electronic device . Although not illustrated the power management module may include for example a Power Management Integrated Circuit PMIC a charger Integrated Circuit IC or a battery or fuel gauge. The PMIC may be mounted to for example an integrated circuit or an SoC semiconductor.

Charging methods may be classified into a wired charging method and a wireless charging method. The charger IC may charge a battery and prevent over voltage or over current from a charger. According to an embodiment the charger IC may include a charger IC for at least one of the wired charging method and or the wireless charging method. Examples of the wireless charging may include magnetic resonance charging magnetic induction charging and electromagnetic charging and an additional circuit such as a coil loop a resonance circuit and a rectifier may be added for the wireless charging.

The battery gauge may measure for example a remaining quantity of the battery or a voltage a current or a temperature during the charging. The battery may store or generate electricity and may supply power to the electronic device using the stored or generated electricity. The battery may include for example a rechargeable battery or a solar battery.

The indicator may display a specific status of the electronic device or the part for example the AP of electronic device for example a booting status a message status a charging status and the like. The motor may convert an electrical signal to a mechanical vibration. Although not illustrated the electronic device may include a processing unit for example a GPU for supporting mobile TV. The processing unit for supporting mobile TV may process media data according to a standard of Digital Multimedia Broadcasting DMB Digital Video Broadcasting DVB media flow or the like.

According to various embodiments an electronic device maps an emotional quotient determined on the basis of measured heart rate information to a content when a content is provided so that an emotional quotient mapped to a corresponding content may easily be identified when a user uses the corresponding content.

The above described components of the electronic device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure may be formed of one or more components and a name of a corresponding component element may be changed based on the type of electronic device. The electronic device according to the present disclosure may include one or more of the aforementioned components or may further include other additional components or some of the aforementioned components may be omitted. Further some of the components of the electronic device according to the various embodiments of the present disclosure may be combined to form a single entity and thus may equivalently execute functions of the corresponding elements prior to the combination.

The module used in various embodiments of the present disclosure may refer to for example a unit including one of hardware software and firmware or a combination of two or more of the hardware software and firmware. The module may be interchangeably used with a term such as unit logic logical block component or circuit. The module may be the smallest unit of an integrated component or a part thereof. The module may be the smallest unit that performs one or more functions or a part thereof The module may be mechanically or electronically implemented. For example the module according to various embodiments of the present disclosure may include at least one of an Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC chip a Field Programmable Gate Arrays FPGAs and a programmable logic device for performing operations which have been known or are to be developed hereafter.

According to various embodiments at least some of the devices for example modules or functions thereof or the method for example operations according to the present disclosure may be implemented by a command stored in a computer readable storage medium in a programming module form. When he command is executed by one or more processors for example the processor the one or more processors may execute a function corresponding to the command. The computer readable storage medium may be for example the memory . At least a part of the programming module may for example be implemented e.g. executed by the processor . At least some of the programming modules may include for example a module a program a routine a set of instructions or a process for performing one or more functions.

The computer readable recoding medium may include magnetic media such as a hard disk a floppy disk and a magnetic tape optical media such as a Compact Disc Read Only Memory CD ROM and a Digital Versatile Disc DVD magneto optical media such as a floptical disk and a hardware device specially configured to store and execute a program instruction for example a programming module such as a Read Only Memory ROM a Random Access Memory RAM a flash memory and the like. In addition the program instructions may include high class language codes which can be executed in a computer by using an interpreter as well as machine codes made by a compiler. The aforementioned hardware device may be configured to operate as one or more software modules in order to perform the operation of various embodiments of the present disclosure and vice versa.

A module or a programming module according to the present disclosure may include at least one of the described component elements a few of the component elements may be omitted or additional component elements may be included. Operations executed by a module a programming module or other component elements according to various embodiments of the present disclosure may be executed sequentially in parallel repeatedly or in a heuristic manner. Further some operations may be executed according to another order or may be omitted or other operations may be added.

The embodiments of the present disclosure disclosed in the specification and the drawings are only particular examples proposed in order to easily describe the technical matters of the present disclosure and help with comprehension of the present disclosure and do not limit the present disclosure. Therefore in addition to the embodiments disclosed herein the various embodiments of the present disclosure should be construed to include all modifications or modified forms drawn based on the technical idea of the various embodiments of the present disclosure.

The above described embodiments of the present disclosure can be implemented in hardware firmware or via the execution of software or computer code that can be stored in a recording medium such as a CD ROM a Digital Versatile Disc DVD a magnetic tape a RAM a floppy disk a hard disk or a magneto optical disk or computer code downloaded over a network originally stored on a remote recording medium or a non transitory machine readable medium and to be stored on a local recording medium so that the methods described herein can be rendered via such software that is stored on the recording medium using a general purpose computer or a special processor or in programmable or dedicated hardware such as an ASIC or FPGA. As would be understood in the art the computer the processor microprocessor controller or the programmable hardware include memory components e.g. RAM ROM Flash etc. that may store or receive software or computer code that when accessed and executed by the computer processor or hardware implement the processing methods described herein. In addition it would be recognized that when a general purpose computer accesses code for implementing the processing shown herein the execution of the code transforms the general purpose computer into a special purpose computer for executing the processing shown herein. Any of the functions and steps provided in the Figures may be implemented in hardware software or a combination of both and may be performed in whole or in part within the programmed instructions of a computer. No claim element herein is to be construed under the provisions of 35 U.S.C. 112 sixth paragraph unless the element is expressly recited using the phrase means for . In addition an artisan understands and appreciates that a processor or microprocessor may be hardware in the claimed disclosure. Under the broadest reasonable interpretation the appended claims are statutory subject matter in compliance with 35 U.S.C. 101.

