---

title: Communication coverage navigation
abstract: A network device may predict the use of a mobile device and configure a network based on the prediction. The network device may provide instructions to display coverage indicators for the mobile device based on the predictions.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09565571&OS=09565571&RS=09565571
owner: AT&T Intellectual Property I, L.P.
number: 09565571
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150924
---
This application is a divisional of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 683 123 filed Nov. 21 2012 entitled LONG TERM EVOLUTION INTELLIGENT SUBSCRIBER PROFILE which is incorporated herein in its entirety.

The technical field generally relates to wireless communications and more specifically relates to network resource provisioning.

Users are expecting data access anywhere for their mobile devices. Current wide area wireless networks such as Global System for Mobile communications GSM and Long Term Evolution LTE allow internet service providers to offer reasonable uplink and downlink bandwidth and speed in which customers can reach Internet based services. For example cloud computing allows customers to make use of a wide range of cloud based resources such as platform as a service PaaS storage as a service SaaS computing as a service and the like. But exponential growth in cloud services and other Internet services has caused a corresponding increase in congestion on wide are wireless networks which may reduce the effectiveness of cloud and other data services for users.

WiFi and femtocell femto networks are widely available today and have the potential to offer an alternative wide are wireless network domain. Yet the authentication and authorization procedures of the alternative network domain may make such opportunity cost and performance prohibitive.

The following presents a simplified summary that describes some aspects of the subject disclosure. This summary is not an extensive overview of the disclosure. Indeed additional or alternative aspects of the subject disclosure may be available beyond those described in the summary.

In an example a processor may access information associated with a mobile device the information associated with the mobile device may comprise a first data usage for a first data session associated with the mobile device. The data may be analyzed in a manner to predict a second data usage for a second data session associated with the mobile device. Ultimately a network for the mobile device may be configured based on the predicted second data usage for the second data session associated with the mobile device.

In another example a processor may be configured to access mapping data for a route to a destination as well as information associated with a mobile device that comprises at least one of usage data of the mobile device a user profile associated with the mobile device or demographic data associated with a user of the mobile device. Coverage may be predicted for the mobile device along the route based on an analysis of the information associated with the mobile device and the mapping data for the route. The route to the destination may be displayed along with an indicator of the predicted coverage for the mobile device along the route.

In another example a system may comprise a network device and a mobile device wherein the mobile device is capable of accessing a wide area wireless network domain and alternate network domain. The network device may be configured to access historical information associated with the mobile device access a current state of the wide area wireless network and predict the use of the mobile device based on an analysis of the information associated with the mobile device and the current state of the wide area wireless network. The mobile device may be instructed to use the alternate domain network based on the predicted use of the mobile device.

As shown in the communications system may include wireless transmit receive units WTRUs a radio access network RAN a core network a public switched telephone network PSTN the Internet and other networks though it will be appreciated that the disclosed examples contemplate any number of WTRUs base stations networks and or network elements. Each of the WTRUs may be any type of device configured to operate and or communicate in a wireless environment. By way of example the WTRUs may be configured to transmit and or receive wireless signals and may include user equipment UE a mobile station a mobile device a fixed or mobile subscriber unit a pager a cellular telephone a personal digital assistant PDA a smartphone a laptop a netbook a personal computer a wireless sensor consumer electronics and the like.

The communications systems may also include a base station and a base station . Each of the base stations may be any type of device configured to wirelessly interface with at least one of the WTRUs to facilitate access to one or more communication networks such as the core network the Internet and or the networks . By way of example the base stations may be a base transceiver station BTS a Node B an eNode B a Home Node B a Home eNode B a site controller an access point AP a wireless router and the like. While the base stations are each depicted as a single element it will be appreciated that the base stations may include any number of interconnected base stations and or network elements.

The base station may be part of the RAN which may also include other base stations and or network elements not shown such as a base station controller BSC a radio network controller RNC relay nodes etc. The base station and or the base station may be configured to transmit and or receive wireless signals within a particular geographic region which may be referred to as a cell not shown . The cell may further be divided into cell sectors. For example the cell associated with the base station may be divided into three sectors. Thus in an example the base station may include three transceivers i.e. one for each sector of the cell. In another example the base station may employ multiple input multiple output MIMO technology and therefore may utilize multiple transceivers for each sector of the cell.

The base stations may communicate with one or more of the WTRUs over an air interface which may be any suitable wireless communication link e.g. radio frequency RF microwave infrared IR ultraviolet UV visible light etc. . The air interface may be established using any suitable radio access technology RAT .

More specifically as noted above the communications system may be a multiple access system and may employ one or more channel access schemes such as CDMA TDMA FDMA OFDMA SC FDMA and the like. For example the base station in the RAN and the WTRUs may implement a radio technology such as Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS Terrestrial Radio Access UTRA that may establish the air interface using wideband CDMA WCDMA . WCDMA may include communication protocols such as High Speed Packet Access HSPA and or Evolved HSPA HSPA . HSPA may include High Speed Downlink Packet Access HSDPA and or High Speed Uplink Packet Access HSUPA .

In another example the base station and the WTRUs may implement a radio technology such as Evolved UMTS Terrestrial Radio Access E UTRA which may establish the air interface using Long Term Evolution LTE and or LTE Advanced LTE A .

In other example the base station and the WTRUs may implement radio technologies such as IEEE 802.16 i.e. Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WiMAX CDMA2000 CDMA2000 l CDMA2000 EV DO Interim Standard 2000 IS 2000 Interim Standard 95 IS 95 Interim Standard 856 IS 856 Global System for Mobile communications GSM Enhanced Data rates for GSM Evolution EDGE GSM EDGE GERAN and the like.

The base station in may be a wireless router Home Node B Home eNode B or access point for example and may utilize any suitable RAT for facilitating wireless connectivity in a localized area such as a place of business a home a vehicle a campus and the like. In one example the base station and the WTRUs may implement a radio technology such as IEEE 802.11 to establish a wireless local area network WLAN . In another example the base station and the WTRUs may implement a radio technology such as IEEE 802.15 to establish a wireless personal area network WPAN . In yet another example the base station and the WTRUs may utilize a cellular based RAT e.g. WCDMA CDMA2000 GSM LTE LTE A etc. to establish a picocell or femtocell. As shown in the base station may have a direct connection to the Internet . Thus the base station may not be required to access the Internet via the core network .

The RAN may be in communication with the core network which may be any type of network configured to provide voice data applications and or voice over internet protocol VoIP services to one or more of the WTRUs . For example the core network may provide call control billing services mobile location based services pre paid calling Internet connectivity video distribution etc. and or perform high level security functions such as user authentication. Although not shown in it will be appreciated that the RAN and or the core network may be in direct or indirect communication with other RANs that employ the same RAT as the RAN or a different RAT. For example in addition to being connected to the RAN which may be utilizing an E UTRA radio technology the core network may also be in communication with another RAN not shown employing a GSM radio technology.

The core network may also serve as a gateway for the WTRUs to access the PSTN the Internet and or other networks . The PSTN may include circuit switched telephone networks that provide plain old telephone service POTS . The Internet may include a global system of interconnected computer networks and devices that use common communication protocols such as the transmission control protocol TCP user datagram protocol UDP and the internet protocol IP in the TCP IP internet protocol suite. The networks may include wired or wireless communications networks owned and or operated by other service providers. For example the networks may include another core network connected to one or more RANs which may employ the same RAT as the RAN or a different RAT.

Some or all of the WTRUs in the communications system may include multi mode capabilities i.e. the WTRUs may include multiple transceivers for communicating with different wireless networks over different wireless links. For example the WTRU shown in may be configured to communicate with the base station which may employ a cellular based radio technology and with the base station which may employ an IEEE 802 radio technology.

Processor may be any type of circuitry that performs operations on behalf of wireless device . Such circuitry may include circuitry and other components that enable processor to perform any of the functions and methods described herein. Such circuitry and other components may also enable processor to communicate and or interact with other devices and components for example any other component of device of wireless device in such a manner as to enable processor and such other devices and or components to perform any of the disclosed functions and methods. In one example processor executes software i.e. computer readable instructions stored in a computer readable medium that may include functionality related to dynamic network domain interoperability for example. User interface module may be any type or combination of hardware and or software that enables a user to operate and interact with wireless device and in one example to interact with a system or software enabling the user to place request and or receive calls text communications of any type voicemail voicemail notifications voicemail content and or data and or a system or software enabling the user to view modify or delete related software objects. For example user interface module may include a display physical and or soft keys voice recognition software a microphone a speaker and the like. Wireless communication module may be any type of transceiver including any combination of hardware and or software that enables wireless device to communicate with wireless network equipment. Memory enables wireless device to store information such as APNs MNCs MCCs text communications content and associated data multimedia content software to efficiently process radio resource requests and service requests and radio resource request processing preferences and configurations. Memory may take any form such as internal random access memory RAM an SD card a microSD card and the like. Power supply may be a battery or other type of power input e.g. a charging cable that is connected to an electrical outlet etc. that is capable of powering wireless device . SIM may be any type Subscriber Identity Module and may be configured on a removable or non removable SIM card that allows wireless device to store data on SIM .

As depicted in the processor comprises a processing portion a memory portion and an input output portion . The processing portion memory portion and input output portion are coupled together coupling not shown in to allow communications between these portions. The input output portion is capable of providing and or receiving components commands and or instructions utilized to for example request and receive APNs MNCs and or MCCs establish and terminate communications sessions transmit and receive service requests and data access request data and responses transmit receive store and process text data and voice communications execute software that efficiently processes radio resource requests receive and store service requests and radio resource requests radio resource request processing preferences and configurations and or perform any other function described herein.

The processor may be implemented as a client processor and or a server processor. In a basic configuration the processor may include at least one processing portion and memory portion . The memory portion can store any information utilized in conjunction with establishing transmitting receiving and or processing text data and or voice communications communications related data and or content voice calls other telephonic communications etc. For example the memory portion is capable of storing APNs MNCs MCCs service requests radio resource requests QoS and or APN parameters software for dynamic network domain interoperability intelligent subscriber profiles text and data communications calls voicemail multimedia content visual voicemail applications etc. Depending upon the exact configuration and type of processor the memory portion can be volatile such as RAM non volatile such as ROM flash memory etc. or a combination thereof. The processor can have additional features functionality. For example the processor may include additional storage removable storage and or non removable storage including but not limited to magnetic or optical disks tape flash smart cards or a combination thereof. Computer storage media such as memory and storage elements and may include volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Computer storage media include but are not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices universal serial bus USB compatible memory smart cards or any other medium that can be used to store the desired information and that can be accessed by the processor . Any such computer storage media may be part of the processor . As described herein a computer storage media is an article of manufacture and thus not a transient signal.

The processor may also contain the communications connection s that allow the processor to communicate with other devices for example through a radio access network RAN . Communications connection s is an example of communication media. Communication media typically embody computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal means a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communication media includes wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection as might be used with a land line telephone and wireless media such as acoustic RF infrared cellular and other wireless media. The term computer readable media as used herein includes both storage media and communication media. The processor also can have input device s such as keyboard keypad mouse pen voice input device touch input device etc. Output device s such as a display speakers printer etc. also can be included.

A RAN as described herein may comprise any telephony radio network or any other type of communications network wireline or wireless or any combination thereof. The following description sets forth some exemplary telephony radio networks such as the global system for mobile communications GSM and non limiting operating environments. The operating environments described herein should be considered non exhaustive however and the network architectures merely show how disclosed subject matter e.g. dynamic network domain interoperability may be implemented with stationary and non stationary network structures and architectures. It can be appreciated however that disclosed subject matter as described herein may be incorporated with existing and or future alternative architectures for communication networks as well.

GSM is one of the most widely utilized wireless access systems in today s fast growing communication environment. GSM provides circuit switched data services to subscribers such as mobile telephone or computer users. The General Packet Radio Service GPRS which is an extension to GSM technology introduces packet switching to GSM networks. The GPRS uses a packet based wireless communication technology to transfer high and low speed data and signaling in an efficient manner. The GPRS attempts to optimize the use of network and radio resources thus enabling the cost effective and efficient use of GSM network resources for packet mode applications.

The exemplary GSM GPRS environment and services described herein also may be extended to 3G services such as Universal Mobile Telephone System UMTS Frequency Division Duplexing FDD and Time Division Duplexing TDD High Speed Packet Data Access HSPDA cdma2000 1 Evolution Data Optimized EVDO Code Division Multiple Access 2000 cdma2000 3 Time Division Synchronous Code Division Multiple Access TD SCDMA Wideband Code Division Multiple Access WCDMA Enhanced Data GSM Environment EDGE International Mobile Telecommunications 2000 IMT 2000 Digital Enhanced Cordless Telecommunications DECT 4G Services such as Long Term Evolution LTE etc. as well as to other network services that become available in time. In this regard the disclosed subject matter e.g. dynamic network domain interoperability may be applied independently of the method of data transport and does not depend on any particular network architecture or underlying protocols.

Generally there can be four different cell sizes in a GSM network referred to as macro micro pico and umbrella cells. The coverage area of each cell is different in different environments. Macro cells may be regarded as cells in which the base station antenna is installed in a mast or a building above average roof top level. Micro cells are cells whose antenna height is under average roof top level. Micro cells may be typically used in urban areas. Pico cells are small cells having a diameter of a few dozen meters. Pico cells may be used mainly indoors. On the other hand umbrella cells may be used to cover shadowed regions of smaller cells and fill in gaps in coverage between those cells.

A mobile switching center may be connected to a large number of base station controllers. At MSC for instance depending on the type of traffic the traffic may be separated in that voice may be sent to Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN through Gateway MSC GMSC and or data may be sent to SGSN that may send the data traffic to GGSN for further forwarding.

When MSC receives call traffic for example from BSC it may send a query to a database hosted by SCP . The SCP may process the request and may issue a response to MSC so that it may continue call processing as appropriate.

The HLR may be a centralized database for users to register to the GPRS network. In some examples HLR may be a device such as HSSs. HLR may store static information about the subscribers such as the International Mobile Subscriber Identity IMSI APN profiles as described herein subscribed services and a key for authenticating the subscriber. HLR may also store dynamic subscriber information such as dynamic APN profiles and the current location of the mobile subscriber. HLR may also serve to intercept and determine the validity of destination numbers in messages sent from a device such as mobile subscriber as described herein. Associated with HLR may be AuC . AuC may be a database that contains the algorithms for authenticating subscribers and may include the associated keys for encryption to safeguard the user input for authentication.

In the following depending on context the term mobile subscriber sometimes refers to the end user and sometimes to the actual portable device such as mobile devices and used by an end user of a mobile cellular service or a wireless provider. When a mobile subscriber turns on his or her mobile device the mobile device may go through an attach process by which the mobile device attaches to an SGSN of the GPRS network. In when mobile subscriber initiates the attach process by turning on the network capabilities of the mobile device an attach request may be sent by mobile subscriber to SGSN . The SGSN queries another SGSN to which mobile subscriber was attached before for the identity of mobile subscriber . Upon receiving the identity of mobile subscriber from the other SGSN SGSN may request more information from mobile subscriber . This information may be used to authenticate mobile subscriber to SGSN by HLR . Once verified SGSN sends a location update to HLR indicating the change of location to a new SGSN in this case SGSN . HLR may notify the old SGSN to which mobile subscriber was attached before to cancel the location process for mobile subscriber . HLR may then notify SGSN that the location update has been performed. At this time SGSN sends an Attach Accept message to mobile subscriber which in turn sends an Attach Complete message to SGSN .

After attaching itself to the network mobile subscriber may then go through the authentication process. In the authentication process SGSN may send the authentication information to HLR which may send information back to SGSN based on the user profile that was part of the user s initial setup. The SGSN may then send a request for authentication and ciphering to mobile subscriber . The mobile subscriber may use an algorithm to send the user identification ID and password to SGSN . The SGSN may use the same algorithm and compares the result. If a match occurs SGSN authenticates mobile subscriber .

Next the mobile subscriber may establish a user session with the destination network corporate network by going through a Packet Data Protocol PDP activation process. Briefly in the process mobile subscriber may request access to an Access Point Name APN for example UPS.com and SGSN may receive the activation request from mobile subscriber . SGSN may then initiate a Domain Name Service DNS query to learn which GGSN node has access to the UPS.com APN. The DNS query may be sent to the DNS server within the core network such as DNS that may be provisioned to map to one or more GGSN nodes in the core network . Based on the APN the mapped GGSN may access the requested corporate network . The SGSN may then send to GGSN a Create Packet Data Protocol PDP Context Request message that contains necessary information. The GGSN may send a Create PDP Context Response message to SGSN which may then send an Activate PDP Context Accept message to mobile subscriber .

Once activated data packets of the call made by mobile subscriber may then go through radio access network core network and interconnect network in a particular fixed end system or Internet and firewall to reach corporate network .

Thus network elements that can invoke the functionality of dynamic network domain interoperability systems and methods and other subject matter described herein may include but are not limited to Gateway GPRS Support Node tables Fixed End System router tables firewall systems VPN tunnels and any number of other network elements as required by the particular digital network.

The GSM core network may also include a Mobile Switching Center MSC a Gateway Mobile Switching Center GMSC a Home Location Register HLR Visitor Location Register VLR an Authentication Center AuC and an Equipment Identity Register EIR . The MSC may perform a switching function for the network. The MSC may also perform other functions such as registration authentication location updating handovers and call routing. The GMSC may provide a gateway between the GSM network and other networks such as an Integrated Services Digital Network ISDN or Public Switched Telephone Networks PSTNs . Thus the GMSC provides interworking functionality with external networks.

The HLR may be a database that may contain administrative information regarding each subscriber registered in a corresponding GSM network. Such information may include APNs and APN profiles. The HLR may also contain the current location of each MS. The VLR may be a database that contains selected administrative information from the HLR . The VLR may contain information necessary for call control and provision of subscribed services for each MS currently located in a geographical area controlled by the VLR. The HLR and the VLR together with the MSC may provide the call routing and roaming capabilities of GSM. The AuC may provide the parameters needed for authentication and encryption functions. Such parameters allow verification of a subscriber s identity. The EIR may store security sensitive information about the mobile equipment.

A Short Message Service Center SMSC allows one to one short message service SMS or multimedia message service MMS messages to be sent to from the MS . A Push Proxy Gateway PPG is used to push i.e. send without a synchronous request content to the MS . The PPG acts as a proxy between wired and wireless networks to facilitate pushing of data to the MS . A Short Message Peer to Peer SMPP protocol router may be provided to convert SMS based SMPP messages to cell broadcast messages. SMPP is a protocol for exchanging SMS messages between SMS peer entities such as short message service centers. The SMPP protocol is often used to allow third parties e.g. content suppliers such as news organizations to submit bulk messages.

To gain access to GSM services such as voice data short message service SMS and multimedia message service MMS the MS may first register with the network to indicate its current location by performing a location update and IMSI attach procedure. MS may send a location update including its current location information to the MSC VLR via BTS and BSC . The location information may then be sent to the MS s HLR. The HLR may be updated with the location information received from the MSC VLR. The location update may also be performed when the MS moves to a new location area. Typically the location update may be periodically performed to update the database as location updating events occur.

GPRS network may be logically implemented on the GSM core network architecture by introducing two packet switching network nodes a serving GPRS support node SGSN a cell broadcast and a Gateway GPRS support node GGSN . The SGSN may be at the same hierarchical level as the MSC in the GSM network. The SGSN may control the connection between the GPRS network and the MS . The SGSN may also keep track of individual MS s locations and security functions and access controls.

Cell Broadcast Center CBC may communicate cell broadcast messages that are typically delivered to multiple users in a specified area. Cell Broadcast is one to many geographically focused service. It enables messages to be communicated to multiple mobile telephone customers who are located within a given part of its network coverage area at the time the message is broadcast.

GGSN may provide a gateway between the GPRS network and a public packet network PDN or other IP networks . That is the GGSN may provide interworking functionality with external networks and set up a logical link to the MS through the SGSN. When packet switched data leaves the GPRS network it may be transferred to an external TCP IP network such as an X.25 network or the Internet. In order to access GPRS services the MS first attaches itself to the GPRS network by performing an attach procedure. The MS then activates a packet data protocol PDP context thus activating a packet communication session between the MS the SGSN and the GGSN.

In a GSM GPRS network GPRS services and GSM services may be used in parallel. The MS may operate in one three classes class A class B and class C. A class A MS may attach to the network for both GPRS services and GSM services simultaneously. A class A MS may also support simultaneous operation of GPRS services and GSM services. For example class A mobiles may receive GSM voice data SMS calls and GPRS data calls at the same time.

A class B MS may attach to the network for both GPRS services and GSM services simultaneously. However a class B MS does not support simultaneous operation of the GPRS services and GSM services. That is a class B MS can only use one of the two services at a given time.

A class C MS can attach for only one of the GPRS services and GSM services at a time. Simultaneous attachment and operation of GPRS services and GSM services is not possible with a class C MS.

GPRS network may be designed to operate in three network operation modes NOM NOM and NOM . A network operation mode of a GPRS network may be indicated by a parameter in system information messages transmitted within a cell. The system information messages may direct an MS where to listen for paging messages and how to signal towards the network. The network operation mode represents the capabilities of the GPRS network. In a NOM network a MS may receive pages from a circuit switched domain voice call when engaged in a data call. The MS may suspend the data call or take both simultaneously depending on the ability of the MS. In a NOM network a MS may not receive pages from a circuit switched domain when engaged in a data call since the MS may be receiving data and may not be listening to a paging channel. In a NOM network a MS may monitor pages for a circuit switched network while receiving data and vice versa.

The IP multimedia network was introduced with 3GPP Release 5 and may include IP multimedia subsystem IMS to provide rich multimedia services to end users. A representative set of the network entities within IMS are a call session control function CSCF a media gateway control function MGCF a media gateway MGW and a master subscriber database called a home subscriber server HSS . HSS may be common to GSM core network GPRS network as well as IP multimedia network . HSS may include multiple HSSs.

IP multimedia system may be built around the call session control function of which there are three types an interrogating CSCF I CSCF a proxy CSCF P CSCF and a serving CSCF S CSCF . The P CSCF is the MS s first point of contact with the IMS . The P CSCF may forward session initiation protocol SIP messages received from the MS to an SIP server in a home network and vice versa of the MS. The P CSCF may also modify an outgoing request according to a set of rules defined by the network operator for example address analysis and potential modification .

I CSCF forms an entrance to a home network and hides the inner topology of the home network from other networks and provides flexibility for selecting an S CSCF. I CSCF may contact subscriber location function SLF to determine which HSS to use for the particular subscriber if multiple HSSs are present. S CSCF may perform the session control services for MS . This includes routing originating sessions to external networks and routing terminating sessions to visited networks. S CSCF may also decide whether an application server AS is required to receive information on an incoming SIP session request to ensure appropriate service handling. This decision may be based on information received from HSS or other sources such as application server . AS may also communicate to location server e.g. a Gateway Mobile Location Center GMLC that provides a position e.g. latitude longitude coordinates of MS .

HSS may contain a subscriber profile and keep track of which core network node is currently handling the subscriber. It may also support subscriber authentication and authorization functions AAA . In networks with more than one HSS a subscriber location function provides information on the HSS that contains the profile of a given subscriber.

MGCF may provide interworking functionality between SIP session control signaling from the IMS and ISUP BICC call control signaling from the external GSTN networks not shown. It may also control the media gateway MGW that provides user plane interworking functionality e.g. converting between AMR and PCM coded voice. MGW may also communicate with other IP multimedia networks .

Push to Talk over Cellular PoC capable mobile telephones may register with the wireless network when the telephones are in a predefined area e.g. job site etc. When the mobile telephones leave the area they may register with the network in their new location as being outside the predefined area. This registration however does not indicate the actual physical location of the mobile telephones outside the pre defined area.

Mobile Station may communicate wirelessly with Base Station System BSS . BSS contains a Base Station Controller BSC and a Base Transceiver Station BTS . BSS may include a single BSC BTS pair Base Station or a system of BSC BTS pairs which are part of a larger network. BSS is responsible for communicating with Mobile Station and may support one or more cells. BSS is responsible for handling cellular traffic and signaling between Mobile Station and Core Network . Typically BSS performs functions that include but are not limited to digital conversion of speech channels allocation of channels to mobile devices paging and transmission reception of cellular signals.

Additionally Mobile Station may communicate wirelessly with Radio Network System RNS . RNS contains a Radio Network Controller RNC and one or more Node s B . RNS may support one or more cells. RNS may also include one or more RNC Node B pairs or alternatively a single RNC may manage multiple Nodes B . RNS is responsible for communicating with Mobile Station in its geographically defined area. RNC is responsible for controlling the Node s B that are connected to it and is a control element in a UMTS radio access network. RNC performs functions such as but not limited to load control packet scheduling handover control security functions as well as controlling Mobile Station s access to the Core Network CN .

The evolved UMTS Terrestrial Radio Access Network E UTRAN is a radio access network that provides wireless data communications for Mobile Station and User Equipment . E UTRAN provides higher data rates than traditional UMTS. It is part of the Long Term Evolution LTE upgrade for mobile networks and later releases meet the requirements of the International Mobile Telecommunications IMT Advanced and are commonly known as a 4G networks. E UTRAN may include of series of logical network components such as E UTRAN Node B eNB and E UTRAN Node B eNB . E UTRAN may contain one or more eNBs. User Equipment may be any user device capable of connecting to E UTRAN including but not limited to a personal computer laptop mobile device wireless router or other device capable of wireless connectivity to E UTRAN . The improved performance of the E UTRAN relative to a typical UMTS network allows for increased bandwidth spectral efficiency and functionality including but not limited to voice high speed applications large data transfer and IPTV while still allowing for full mobility.

An example of a mobile data and communication service that may be implemented in the PLMN architecture described in is the Enhanced Data rates for GSM Evolution EDGE . EDGE is an enhancement for GPRS networks that implements an improved signal modulation scheme known as 9 PSK Phase Shift Keying . By increasing network utilization EDGE may achieve up to three times faster data rates as compared to a typical GPRS network. EDGE may be implemented on any GSM network capable of hosting a GPRS network making it an ideal upgrade over GPRS since it may provide increased functionality of existing network resources. Evolved EDGE networks are becoming standardized in later releases of the radio telecommunication standards which provide for even greater efficiency and peak data rates of up to 1 Mbit s while still allowing implementation on existing GPRS capable network infrastructure.

Typically Mobile Station may communicate with any or all of BSS RNS or E UTRAN . In a illustrative system each of BSS RNS and E UTRAN may provide Mobile Station with access to Core Network . The Core Network may include of a series of devices that route data and communications between end users. Core Network may provide network service functions to users in the Circuit Switched CS domain the Packet Switched PS domain or both. The CS domain refers to connections in which dedicated network resources are allocated at the time of connection establishment and then released when the connection is terminated. The PS domain refers to communications and data transfers that make use of autonomous groupings of bits called packets. Each packet may be routed manipulated processed or handled independently of all other packets in the PS domain and does not require dedicated network resources.

The Circuit Switched Media Gateway Function CS MGW is part of Core Network and interacts with Visitor Location Register VLR and Mobile Services Switching Center MSC Server and Gateway MSC Server in order to facilitate Core Network resource control in the CS domain. Functions of CS MGW include but are not limited to media conversion bearer control payload processing and other mobile network processing such as handover or anchoring. CS MGW may receive connections to Mobile Station through BSS RNS or both.

Serving GPRS Support Node SGSN stores subscriber data regarding Mobile Station in order to facilitate network functionality. SGSN may store subscription information such as but not limited to the International Mobile Subscriber Identity IMSI temporary identities or Packet Data Protocol PDP addresses. SGSN may also store location information such as but not limited to the Gateway GPRS Support Node GGSN address for each GGSN where an active PDP exists. GGSN may implement a location register function to store subscriber data it receives from SGSN such as subscription or location information.

Serving Gateway S GW is an interface which provides connectivity between E UTRAN and Core Network . Functions of S GW include but are not limited to packet routing packet forwarding transport level packet processing event reporting to Policy and Charging Rules Function PCRF and mobility anchoring for inter network mobility. PCRF uses information gathered from S GW as well as other sources to make applicable policy and charging decisions related to data flows network resources and other network administration functions. Packet Data Network Gateway PDN GW may provide user to services connectivity functionality including but not limited to network wide mobility anchoring bearer session anchoring and control and IP address allocation for PS domain connections.

Home Subscriber Server HSS is a database for user information and stores subscription data regarding Mobile Station or User Equipment for handling calls or data sessions. Networks may contain one HSS or more if additional resources are required. Exemplary data stored by HSS include but is not limited to user identification numbering and addressing information security information or location information. HSS may also provide call or session establishment procedures in both the PS and CS domains.

The VLR MSC Server provides user location functionality. When Mobile Station enters a new network location it begins a registration procedure. A MSC Server for that location transfers the location information to the VLR for the area. A VLR and MSC Server may be located in the same computing environment as is shown by VLR MSC Server or alternatively may be located in separate computing environments. A VLR may contain but is not limited to user information such as the IMSI the Temporary Mobile Station Identity TMSI the Local Mobile Station Identity LMSI the last known location of the mobile station or the SGSN where the mobile station was previously registered. The MSC server may contain information such as but not limited to procedures for Mobile Station registration or procedures for handover of Mobile Station to a different section of the Core Network . GMSC Server may serve as a connection to alternate GMSC Servers for other mobile stations in larger networks.

Equipment Identity Register EIR is a logical element which may store the International Mobile Equipment Identities IMEI for Mobile Station . In a typical example user equipment may be classified as either white listed or black listed depending on its status in the network. In one example if Mobile Station is stolen and put to use by an unauthorized user it may be registered as black listed in EIR preventing its use on the network. Mobility Management Entity MME is a control node which may track Mobile Station or User Equipment if the devices are idle. Additional functionality may include the ability of MME to contact an idle Mobile Station or User Equipment if retransmission of a previous session is required.

Intelligent HSS iHSS may perform functions customary to an HSS such as AAA functions and subscriber location functions. In addition intelligent HSS may comprise an action and promotion engine a policy engine an analysis and prediction engine and an intelligent subscriber profile . In an example intelligent HSS may also have data usage for cloud services user profile data and rate plan data . Data usage for cloud services may comprise information such as the time of day a particular type of cloud service was accessed duration of cloud service access volume of cloud service data accessed provider of the cloud service and the like. User Profile Data may comprise general user preference data e.g. phone model wireless technology format capability e.g. GPRS LTE WiFi CDMA etc. user preferences for cloud services e.g. preferred QoS for a cloud service applications associated with the mobile device e.g. social media application cloud service application radio application music application etc. and common demographics of a user of a WTRU . The demographics may include user age home ownership employment status gender height weight birthday college education status income and the like. Rate Plan Data may comprise rate plan information such as whether the rate plan is time based bulk data usage based pay per use based and the like.

One or more of the engines in the iHSS may use data usage user profile data and rate plan data . All engines may communicate instructions to PCRF real time as well as placing instructions and other information in the intelligent subscriber profile . The Prediction engine may analyze data usage user profile data and rate plan data to predict future behavior. The Policy and Charging Engine may enforce quality of service QoS and charging to deliver superior user experience. The Action and Promotion Engine may leverage coupon and campaign to promote usage of LTE cloud computing resources. The intelligent subscriber profile may be similar to a user profile but include the resulting analysis of the Action and Promotion Engine Policy and Charging Engine and Analysis and Prediction Engine . For example the intelligent subscriber profile may comprise time delineated forecasts predictions of usage patterns recommended promotions and campaigns time delineated network configuration for a connected WTRU and the like.

The iHSS may perform real time analysis e.g. analysis during a cloud service session so that intelligent subscriber profile information may be updated to the iHSS for future cloud services for the originating user device and the terminating cloud service device. A wide range of LTE network elements e.g. MME PCRF PDN GW PCEF etc. may query the iHSS for intelligent subscriber profile information and be configured based on the intelligent subscriber profile. Interaction between LTE network elements e.g. MME PCEF PCRF etc. and iHSS may occur prior to during and or after the cloud service session.

The iHSS may analyze several different data points associated with the WTRU cloud service sessions such as the time of day for cloud service sessions and access to a particular cloud service. In another example the user may be transitioned to a cell e.g. wireless tower earlier than normal based on historical WTRU information which was constructed into a probable i.e. predicted travel route for the WTRU. The predicted cell handover route may be pre constructed by the Analysis and Prediction Engine of the iHSS and recorded within the intelligent subscriber profile. In an example the cloud service provider may have an agreement with the wide are wireless network provider to configure the mobile phone customer device in a particular manner when accessing the cloud service provider s cloud services. Network access including wireless access may be configured based on the type of cloud service accessed.

The iHSS may collaborate with LTE network elements e.g. MME PCRF PDN GW etc. to provide promotion and incentives for usage of cloud service resources. illustrates a non limiting exemplary method of implementing one or more disclosed examples. In an example as shown in method at block the iHSS may analyze several WTRU cloud service sessions. At block after analyzing the aforementioned cloud service sessions the iHSS may determine data usage plans or other services that may be of interest to the WTRU user and record it into the intelligent subscriber profile associated with the WTRU. At block the iHSS may determine when the aforementioned determined service promotions should be displayed and record it into the intelligent subscriber profile associated with the WTRU. For example the resources may be displayed upon powering on the WTRU upon wake up of the WTRU after wireless inactivity or during the cloud service session. In an example aspects of the network may be pre provisioned in anticipation of use by the WTRU user at a particular time. For example the type of QoS may be pre provisioned for a particular time frame that a WTRU of a user may access cloud services. In an example based on data analysis as disclosed herein an advertised paid service e.g. data usage plan may be selected immediately for a limited amount of time e.g. only for the duration of a cloud service session . If the paid service is selected the policy and charging engine may adjust the intelligent subscriber profile accordingly and the profile change may be communicated to the necessary network elements. In another example based on data analysis as disclosed herein there may be an advertisement or promotion for a cloud service. The cloud service promotion may be for a competitor cloud service with a lower price and comparable cloud services for example.

It may be beneficial for the iHSS to handle the predictive analysis intelligent subscriber profile changes and different engines disclosed herein because the iHSS is one of the first network devices in the wireless network that may already be configured to assist in provisioning of a user device to connect to the wireless network. The iHSS allows for the upfront provisioning of appropriate resources upon a device s initial connection with the network. Intelligent HSS functionalities may also be housed in an HLR type device. Although cloud services are discussed many of the disclosed concepts may be applied to other Internet voice or data network services. At least a portion of the intelligent subscriber profile created by the iHSS may be communicated to other network devices such as the MME SGW PDN GW PCRF PCEF or the like for implementation. The iHSS may analyze a particular device linked to a user or a group of devices that may be related to a common user account. The intelligent subscriber profile may be used to enhance cloud computing sessions. The intelligent subscriber profile may be automatically updated based on real time analysis. The analysis gathering of data and the like as disclosed herein may apply to a WTRU associated with a particular user account. So it is contemplated that a WTRU may be used for the first time but an intelligent subscriber profile may be apply to the WTRU because of its association with a subscriber.

The intelligent subscriber profile and the other functions of the iHSS may be used in conjunction with navigation systems. As disclosed herein the iHSS may analyze a user device usage pattern of a cloud service Internet or more generally data services. The iHSS may then predict a network configuration that is tailored to a WTRU or a WTRU associated with a subscriber account in a way that can be displayed to a device on a navigation map corresponding to text directions. The directions may be based on walking driving or other modes of transportation.

As shown in in an example User X with device WTRU X and User Y with device WTRU Y may intend to travel at the same time and in the same vehicle from Point A to Point B as show on highway map . User X may enter a request for directions from Point A to Point B on WTRU X or a device communicatively connected the WTRU X e.g. a vehicle navigation system . User Y may also enter a request for directions from Point A to Point B . In an example the request for directions of one or more devices may be centralized. For example the vehicle navigation system may be communicatively connected to both WTRU Y and WTRU X which may allow for the access of the necessary data to perform the necessary operations. The general navigation information may also comprise WTRU coverage information that may be based on analysis done by the iHSS e.g. Analysis and Prediction Engine and or intelligent subscriber profile .

As shown on highway map there may be multiple routes from Point A to Point B such as Route and a Route . As shown in block the same mileage and time may be computed for WTRU X and WTRU Y but different predicted coverages may be computed based on the respective devices intelligent subscriber profile. The predicted coverage may be an indicator of or based on one or more of the following download upload speeds actual wireless antenna coverage network congestion network outages network infrastructure e.g. GSM or WiFi and the like. The predicted coverage may also take into account the predicted speed of the WTRU e.g. vehicle traffic or walking to determine coverage scenarios.

As shown in block for Route WTRU X has a predicted coverage of 90 for the entirety of the route while WTRU Y has a predicted coverage of 61 . Block for Route displays a predicted coverage of 86 for WTRU X and a predicted coverage of 81 for WTRU Y. Due to the importance of network access for entertainment e.g. downloading high definition movies or work purposes e.g. accessing cloud services for work route which has a longer duration of 30 minutes but has more stable predicted coverage may be chosen over route which has a shorter duration of 22 minutes. In an example there may be color coded overage indicators for a route as shown in block and . In an example color or other indicators may be overlaid onto highway map . The coverage indicators may be for an entire route or may be more granular to show coverage indicators for every mile half mile 5 minute timeframe or the like. The indicators may be a graphic text or sound e.g. voice or a tone . In an example a user may be able to select multiple data usage scenarios options during the route for navigation purposes. The multiple data usage scenarios e.g. the top three scenarios may be based on information from the intelligent subscriber profile. For example the scenarios may be cloud Service cloud Service or Entertainment . The different scenarios may be an indicator of the type of protocol used a descriptor of the end device accessed or the like.

In an example a predicted and or a pre constructed cell handover path for a WTRU may be based on the intelligent subscriber profile combined with information from a navigation system. Analysis of information associated with the expected route of a WTRU from the navigation system and usage information from the intelligent subscriber profile for example may allow the network to pre construct when and to what towers the WTRU should use. This pre construction may allow for quicker and more efficient handover between cell towers as well as the selection of the network cell towers that are optimal for the WTRU when traversing that route. For example the selected cell towers may have higher bandwidth capacity provide better voice call quality and or may have less congestion or errors. In an example the selection of the radio towers used may be based on matching the predicted WTRU network resources with an objective of the service provider to conserve resources e.g. map to 3G resources instead of 4G resources based on a prediction for voice only .

Method may reduce the amount of signaling traffic when switching between the alternative network domain and the wide area wireless network domain and reduce the HLR HSS processing load. The wide area wireless network may instruct a connected WTRU to switch to an alternative network domain based on congestion or an outage in the wide area wireless network. The wide area wireless network may also trigger an alert to WTRU when the congestion and or outage is relieved. In an example wide area wireless network may instruct a connected WTRU to switch to an alternative network domain based on predictive switching. A WTRU may have an associated intelligent subscriber profile. Although the wide area wireless network may not have congestion at a period of time the wide area wireless network may proactively signal to the WTRU to switch to an alternative network domain in consideration of a usage prediction from the intelligent subscriber profile.

When wireless networks become overly congested or encounters an outage there is an opportunity to redirect the packet switched PS data traffic to an alternative network domain. Disclosed herein is an integrated Authentication and Authorization method that can be performed with reduced signaling i.e. a single pass so that the signaling traffic may be reduced.

Communications between the AAA server with an alternative network domain and the HLR HSS inside the LTE network may use the signaling channel e.g. SS7 SIGTRAN etc. . Without an integrated AAA a AAA server in the alternative network domain may make multiple queries to the HLR HSS in the mobility network domain. Furthermore when there is no integrated AAA the AAA sever may validate subscriber identity and verify account status each time the WTRU switches from the mobility domain to the alternative network domain.

In an example there may be a single HLR HSS solution for integrated one stop authentication and authorization. A server entitlement server query may perform Authorization and then the HLR HSS SAI Query may be used perform authentication. The MIND and SAI query may avoid typical HLR HSS authorization which requires the Location Update Request in order to return with the entire subscriber profile which may be unnecessary and cumbersome. The method may comprise the client Box or network management device issuing a Lightweight Directory Access Protocol LDAP Authorization Request to reach the Subscriber Profile Repository SPR service entitlement server database in order to retrieve subscriber account status. And then only if the subscriber account is active the HLR HSS authentication may be performed.

Examples disclosed herein may use a wide area wireless network domain an alternative network domain interchangeably in its implementation. For example the wireless navigation maps as discussed herein may display information based on wide area wireless network domains alternative network domains or both. In another example a trigger to switch networks may come from the alternative network domain rather than the wide area wireless network domain.

While examples for dynamic network domain interoperability intelligent subscriber profiles and the like have been described in connection with various communications devices and computing devices processors the underlying concepts can be applied to any communications or computing device processor or system capable of implementing the disclosed subject matter. The various techniques described herein may be implemented in connection with hardware or software or where appropriate with a combination of both. Thus the methods and apparatuses for dynamic network domain interoperability intelligent subscriber profiles or certain aspects or portions thereof can take the form of program code i.e. instructions embodied in tangible and or non transitory media such as floppy diskettes CD ROMs hard drives or any other machine readable storage medium wherein when the program code is loaded into and executed by a machine such as a computer the machine becomes an apparatus for the disclosed subject matter. A computer readable storage medium as described herein is an article of manufacture and should not to be construed as a transient or propagating signal. In the case of program code execution on programmable computers the computing device will generally include a processor a storage medium readable by the processor including volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements at least one input device and at least one output device. The program s can be implemented in assembly or machine language if desired. The language can be a compiled or interpreted language and combined with hardware implementations.

Methods and systems disclosed herein may also be practiced via communications embodied in the form of program code that is transmitted over some transmission medium such as over electrical wiring or cabling through fiber optics or via any other form of transmission wherein when the program code is received loaded into and executed by a machine such as an EPROM a gate array a programmable logic device PLD a client computer or the like the machine becomes an apparatus for dynamic network domain interoperability intelligent subscriber profiles and the like. When implemented on a general purpose processor the program code combines with the processor to provide a unique apparatus that operates to invoke the functionality of the disclosed subject matter as described herein. Additionally any storage techniques used in connection with dynamic network domain interoperability intelligent subscriber profiles or other disclosed subject matter may invariably be a combination of hardware and software.

While the disclosed subject matter has been described in connection with the various examples of the various figures it is to be understood that other similar examples may be used or modifications and additions may be made to the described examples for performing the same function without deviating therefrom. For example one skilled in the art will recognize intelligent subscriber profiles as described in the present application may apply to any environment whether wired or wireless and may be applied to any number of such devices connected via a communications network and interacting across the network. Therefore dynamic network domain interoperability intelligent subscriber profiles or other disclosed subject matter should not be limited to any single example but rather should be construed in breadth and scope in accordance with the appended claims.

