---

title: Intermetallic nanoparticles
abstract: A process for preparing intermetallic nanoparticles of two or more metals is provided. In particular, the process includes the steps: a) dispersing nanoparticles of a first metal in a solvent to prepare a first metal solution, b) forming a reaction mixture with the first metal solution and a reducing agent, c) heating the reaction mixture to a reaction temperature; and d) adding a second metal solution containing a salt of a second metal to the reaction mixture. During this process, intermetallic nanoparticles, which contain a compound with the first and second metals are formed. The intermetallic nanoparticles with uniform size and a narrow size distribution is also provided. An electrochemical device such as a battery with the intermetallic nanoparticles is also provided.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09533352&OS=09533352&RS=09533352
owner: UChicago Argonne, LLC
number: 09533352
owner_city: Chicago
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20151103
---
This application is a Continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 14 741 300 filed on Jun. 16 2015 which is a Divisional of U.S. application Ser. No. 13 250 442 filed Sep. 30 2011 both of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

This invention was made with Government support under Contract No. DE AC02 06CH11357 awarded by the Department of Energy. The Government has certain rights in this invention.

Intermetallic nanoparticles are desired for various applications because they may exhibit useful properties such as high thermal conductivity high heat capacity high electrical conductivity etc. Typically intermetallic nanoparticles are prepared by attrition milling of the bulk intermetallic compound or co precipitation techniques that may require processing at high temperatures. In addition the nanoparticles that are prepared by milling are not uniform and exhibit a large variation in size.

Since their first commercialization in the 1990s rechargeable lithium ion Li ion batteries have served as major power sources for a wide range of electronic products. In recent years an increase in global energy demand rising and fluctuating crude oil prices and environmental concerns have led to an increase in demand for Li ion batteries. In particular Li ion battery technology is being developed for applications in electric vehicles EVs hybrid electric vehicles HEVs and plug in hybrid electric vehicles PHEVs . For such applications improved Li ion battery anodes from intermetallic nanomaterials providing high energy density and high power capacity are desired.

In one aspect a process is provided including the steps of dispersing nanoparticles of a first metal in a solvent to prepare a first metal solution forming a reaction mixture comprising the first metal solution and a reducing agent heating the reaction mixture to a reaction temperature and adding a second metal solution comprising a salt of a second metal to the reaction mixture whereby intermetallic nanoparticles are formed where the intermetallic nanoparticles comprises a compound comprising the first metal and second metal and the first and second metal are not the same. In some embodiments the process is conducted under an inert atmosphere. In some embodiments the first metal is Sn Pb In Ga Bi Ge Zn Ni. In some embodiments the second metal is Cu Ag Au Pt Pd Ru Ir Fe Co Ni. In some embodiments the salt of the second metal may contain sulfates nitrates chlorides and acetates such as copper II sulfate copper II nitrate copper II chloride copper II acetate etc. In some embodiments the reducing agent contains NaHPO NaBH LiAlH citric acid ascorbic acid tetrakis dimethylamine ethylene.

In some embodiments the process further includes exposing the intermetallic nanoparticles to a third metal solution comprising a salt of a third metal whereby the ternary intermetallic nanoparticles are formed comprising a compound comprising the first metal the second metal and the third metal and where the third metal is not the same as the first metal or the second metal.

In some embodiments the third metal is Ag Au Pt Pd Ru Ir. In some embodiments the reaction temperature is between about 50 C. to about 200 C. In some embodiments the reaction temperature is between about 100 C. to about 150 C. In some embodiments the process further includes cooling the reaction mixture.

In some embodiments the crystal structure of the intermetallic nanoparticles differs from the crystal structure of the first metal and the second metal. In some embodiments the intermetallic nanoparticles have an average diameter from about 100 nm to about 400 nm. In some embodiments the intermetallic nanoparticles have a polydispersity of about 0.2. In some embodiments the process further includes adding the intermetallic nanoparticles to a heat transfer fluid to form a heat transfer mixture whereby the thermal conductivity of the heat transfer mixture is greater than the thermal conductivity of the heat transfer fluid.

In one aspect intermetallic nanoparticles are provided having Sn and Cu where the intermetallic nanoparticles contain a compound comprising Sn and Cu and the average diameter of the intermetallic nanoparticles is from about 100 nm to about 400 nm. In some embodiments the intermetallic nanoparticles have a polydispersity less than 0.5. In some embodiments the intermetallic nanoparticles have a polydispersity of about 0.2.

In some embodiments an electrode containing the intermetallic nanoparticles is provided. In some embodiments a battery comprising the electrode is provided. In some embodiments a heat transfer fluid containing the intermetallic nanoparticles is provided.

In one aspect an electrochemical device containing an anode a cathode having intermetallic nanoparticles with Sn and Cu where the intermetallic nanoparticles is a compound of Sn and Cu and the average diameter of the intermetallic nanoparticles from about 100 nm to about 400 nm and an electrolyte. In some embodiments the electrochemical device is a lithium ion battery. In some embodiments the capacity of the battery is greater than 80 mA g at 0.5 V during the discharge cycle.

Additional features advantages and embodiments of the present disclosure may be set forth from consideration of the following detailed description drawings and claims. Moreover it is to be understood that both the foregoing summary of the present disclosure and the following detailed description are exemplary and intended to provide further explanation without further limiting the scope of the present disclosure claimed.

In the following detailed description reference is made to the accompanying drawings which form a part hereof. In the drawings similar symbols typically identify similar components unless context dictates otherwise. The illustrative embodiments described in the detailed description drawings and claims are not meant to be limiting. Other embodiments may be utilized and other changes may be made without departing from the spirit or scope of the subject matter presented here. It will be readily understood that the aspects of the present disclosure as generally described herein and illustrated in the figures can be arranged substituted combined and designed in a wide variety of different configurations all of which are explicitly contemplated and made part of this disclosure.

A process is provided for preparing intermetallic nanoparticles using a low temperature chemical synthesis route. The process includes the steps a dispersing nanoparticles of a first metal in a solvent to prepare a first metal suspension b forming a reaction mixture with the first metal suspension and a reducing agent c heating the reaction mixture to a reaction temperature and d adding a second metal suspension containing a salt of a second metal to the reaction mixture. Intermetallic nanoparticles which contain a compound with the first and second metals are formed by this process.

In some embodiments the first metal is Sn and the second metal is Cu. In some embodiments the first metal M1 is Sn Pb Sb In Ga Bi Ge Zn Ni the second metal M2 is Cu Ag Au Pt Pd Ru Ir Fe Co Ni and the third metal M3 is Ag Ag Au Pt Pd Ru Ir. Although not bound by theory it is understood that the standard electrode potential SEP of the second and third metal has to be more positive than SEP of the first metal for spontaneous redox exchange reaction. In some embodiments the intermetallic nanoparticles may contain CuSn CuSnor M1x M2y M3z wherein x y is an integer between 1 to 8 and z is an integer from 0 to 8. One copper atom can be substituted with Ni Zn Fe etc. to form intermetallic nanoparticles such as NiCuSn or FeCuSn. These intermetallic nanoparticles have volumetric capacity mAh cc of almost 3 times that of graphite.

It is understood that the steps of the inventive process may be conducted in different orders. In some embodiments the reaction mixture may be heated before the addition of the reducing agent. In some embodiments the reducing agent may be added after the addition of the second metal solution. In some embodiments aliquots of the reducing agent and or the second metal solution may be added. It is also understood that two or more steps of the process may be combined into one step.

The term intermetallic refers to a compound with one solid phase containing two or more metallic elements a first metal M1 a second metal M2 a third metal M3 so on wherein the crystal structure of the intermetallic compound differs from the crystal structures of the constituents. The term metal refers to any element that is a good conductor of electricity and heat and forms cations. In some embodiments the first metal is Sn and the second metal is Cu.

As used herein the term nanoparticles refers to particles that have a single crystallite grain between 10 nm to 500 nm. Individual grains can agglomerate into clusters agglomerates up to 10 m in diameter. In some embodiments the nanoparticles have a diameter between 150 nm to 750 nm. In some embodiments the nanoparticles have a diameter between 200 nm to 500 nm. In some embodiments the nanoparticles have a diameter between about 100 nm to about 400 nm. The particle sizes of the intermetallic nanoparticles can be controlled by controlling the process conditions such as size of precursor M1 particles concentration of M2 and M3 salts and reducing agent temperature pH and addition of capping agents.

In one embodiment intermetallic nanoparticles with Sn and Cu are formed. The Sn nanoparticles are dispersed in a solvent to form a reaction mixture. In some embodiments sonication stirring or mechanical agitation may be used to disperse the Sn nanoparticles. In some embodiments a dispersing agent may be used. Although not bound by theory the addition of reducing agent prior to addition of the second metal solution helps to reduce any existing oxide on the surface of the first metal particles. In some embodiments the reaction mixture may be formed under an inert atmosphere as shown in . A reducing agent is added to the reaction mixture. The reaction mixture is heated to a reaction temperature of 110 C. A solution of copper sulfate was slowly added to the reaction mixture and the intermetallic nanoparticles were formed. In some embodiments the copper sulfate solution is added dropwise under an inert atmosphere as shown in .

In some embodiments the solvent is an organic solvent or an aqueous solution. In some embodiments the solvent may be an organic solvent such as ethylene glycol diethylene glycol tetraethyleneglycol glycerin therminols or an aqueous solution like deionized water ethanol.

The reducing agent is a chemical that donates electrons in a redox reaction. In some embodiments the reducing agent may be phosphinates such as NaHPO or hydrides such as LiAlH sodium borohydride citric acid ascorbic acid tetrakis dimethylamine ethylene.

It is understood that the intermetallic nanoparticles may be further processed to form ternary intermetallic nanoparticles containing a third metal in a single or multiple steps. A ternary intermetallic nanoparticles is a compound which contains three different metals. In some embodiments the mixture of the M2 and M3 metal salts can be added to the suspension of M1 nanoparticles. In some embodiments the intermetallic nanoparticles with the first and second metals may be exposed to a third metal solution containing the salt of a third metal. In some embodiments exposure to the third metal solution may be done by adding it in the reaction mixture after the intermetallic nanoparticles are formed.

One of the advantages of the present process is that the intermetallic nanoparticles can be formed at a relatively low temperatures ranging from about 50 C. to about 200 C. In some embodiment the reaction temperature may be between about 100 C. to about 150 C. In some embodiments the reaction temperature may vary during the formation of the intermetallic nanoparticles. In some embodiments the reaction temperature is held constant at 110 C. or 140 C.

Although not bound by theory it is understood that the reaction temperature plays a role in the formation of the intermetallic nanoparticles. In some embodiments the reaction temperature was chosen based on factors such as the melting point of the first and second metals type of the solvent fluid concentration of metal salt and reducing agent type of reducing agent and the difference in standard potential of M2 and M1. Each of these parameters controls the overall rate of reaction.

Although not bound by theory it is understood that two chemical reactions are taking place during intermetallic nanoparticle synthesis 1 reduction of copper by reducing agent represented by Equation 1 and 2 displacement of metallic Sn by Cu represented by Equation 2 Cu HPO HO Cu HPO 2H 1 Sn Cu Sn Cu 2 

In some embodiments excess reducing agent may be added to the reaction mixture. Although not bound by theory it is understood that excess reducing agent removed any surface oxides from Sn nanoparticles and ensured the completeness of Cu reduction.

After formation the intermetallic nanoparticles may be separated from the reaction mixture by any known method of separation including centrifugation or filtration. In some embodiments the intermetallic nanoparticles may be washed and dried. In some embodiments the process of separation and or drying leads to the agglomeration of the intermetallic nanoparticles into larger aggregates. For example such aggregates may form during drying before SEM imaging as shown in .

The intermetallic nanoparticles formed have consistent shapes and exhibit a narrow range of sizes. As shown in the XRD pattern showed no major peaks beside the intermetallic phase which is indicative of homogenous distribution of Sn and Cu atoms within the nanoparticles. In addition EDAX mapping of CuSn cluster in and C also confirmed the homogenous distribution of Sn and Cu. The particle size distribution may be measured using Dynamic Light Scattering DLS technique. DLS can indirectly measure the particle size distribution of small particles in a suspension. When light hits small particles the light scatters in all directions and the light scattering also varies with time due to Brownian motion of the particles. Two important measures of DLS is the average diameter and polydispersity. The value of the average diameter may be obtained from correlation function by appropriate mathematical model of particles moving in brownian motion as shown in . The polydispersity value reflects the fraction of particles that deviate from average size. As the polydispersity value reaches zero the variation in the average diameter size shrinks. In contrast a the polydispersity value approaches 0.5 nanoparticles have a large variation in sizes. Although not bound by theory the present process obtains nanoparticles with limited variation in sizes by dispersing the nanoparticles of the first metal and closely controlling the addition of the second metal solution concentration of the second metal the concentration of the reducing agent and the reaction temperature.

The intermetallic nanoparticles of the present invention may be used in a variety of applications including as catalysts with or without support electrode materials for electrochemical devices as additives to heat transfer fluids electrical interconnect material etc. In some embodiments the intermetallic nanoparticles may be used in the preparation of electrodes for use in a wide variety of applications including but not limited to electrochemical cells batteries and super capacitors. In some embodiments the intermetallic nanoparticles may be added to a heat transfer fluid to form a heat transfer mixture to enhance heat transfer for use in a variety of applications such as in power plants concentrated solar power facilities etc. The addition of the intermetallic nanoparticles in a heat transfer fluid may enhance the heat transfer properties of the mixture by increasing heat capacity and heat conductivity. In some embodiments the intermetallic nanoparticles may be used as electrically conductive materials for interconnects in electrical wiring.

Some embodiments provide an electrochemical device comprising a cathode an anode and a non aqueous electrolyte. In some embodiments the electrochemical device may be a battery a fuel cell a capacitor etc. In some embodiments the electrochemical device is a lithium secondary battery the Li ion battery . In the Li ion battery the cathode may be lithium based the anode is a carbon containing the intermetallic nanoparticles and the anode and cathode are separated from each other by a porous separator. It is understood that the present intermetallic nanoparticles may be used with various types of support material such as carbon to form supported catalysts.

All publications patent applications issued patents and other documents referred to in this specification are herein incorporated by reference as if each individual publication patent application issued patent or other document was specifically and individually indicated to be incorporated by reference in its entirety. Definitions that are contained in text incorporated by reference are excluded to the extent that they contradict definitions in this disclosure.

The present technology thus generally described will be understood more readily by reference to the following examples which are provided by way of illustration and are not intended to be limiting.

SEM images of the product from Example 1 is shown in . These images show the intermetallic nanoparticles after they have aggregated during the drying process.

The product from Example 1 was placed on a Si substrate and an elemental analysis was done using Energy Dispersive X ray EDAX spectroscopy. show the elemental mapping of Cu and Sn respectively. is the SEM image of the same intermetallic nanoparticle aggregate. Cu and Sn are distributed fairly evenly within the intermetallic nanoparticles as shown in .

The product from Example 1 was characterized with X ray diffraction XRD . The XRD pattern shown in confirm that the product from Example 1 is CuSn because the experimental peaks matches up bottom graph with the peaks reported in the Power Diffraction ICDD database 03 065 4653 .

Preparation of CuSn. The same procedure was followed as in Example with modifications listed in Table 1.

The product from Example 2 was characterized using X ray diffraction XRD . The XRD pattern shown in confirms that the product from Example 1 is CuSnbecause the experimental peaks match up with the peaks reported in the ICDD 00 045 1488 database top base .

The product from Example 2 was dispersed in deionized water and Dynamic Laser Scattering DLS technique was used to determine the particle size distribution. The results of DLS shown in indicates that the average diameter for the CuSnnanoparticles was 360 nm. In addition the CuSnnanoparticles have a relatively narrow range of distribution as evidenced by a polydispersity value of 0.21. This indicates that the intermetallic nanoparticles prepared by this method had a uniform size. In comparison commercially available CuSnnanoparticles are larger several microns and have a large distribution of sizes as shown in SEM image of CuSnnanoparticles produced by Wildcat Technologies .

Preparation and Testing of electrodes with CuSn. Electrodes were prepared with 80 wt. of the product from Example 2 10 wt. acetylene black as the conductive agent and 10 wt. polyvinylidene difluoride binder. The loading density of the active material was around 4.8 mg cm. The electrolyte was 1.2M LiPFdissolved in a mixture of ethylene carbonate EC and ethyl methyl carbonate EMC in a 3 7 volume ratio.

CR2032 type coin cells 1.6 cm were assembled with lithium metal as the negative and the electrode above as the positive electrode. The cells were discharged first to 0V and then charged to 2.5 V. Thereafter the cells were discharged and charged between 0 and 2.5 V for several cycles under the current density of 20 mA g. The capacity in MAh g was measured at different voltages during several charge discharge cycles is shown in . The Li ion battery tested with the CuSnnanoparticles showed superior performance as compared to values in the literature. During the discharges decreasing voltage the capacity at 0.5V was between 100 to 150 mAh g. It is understood that the smaller and nearly uniform sizes of the intermetallic nanoparticles and the narrow size distribution leads to superior performance.

The use of the terms a and an and the and similar referents in the context of describing the elements especially in the context of the following claims are to be construed to cover both the singular and the plural unless otherwise indicated herein or clearly contradicted by context. The terms comprising having including and containing are to be construed as open ended terms i.e. meaning including but not limited to unless otherwise noted. Additionally the terms and expressions employed herein have been used as terms of description and not of limitation and there is no intention in the use of such terms and expressions of excluding any equivalents of the features shown and described or portions thereof but it is recognized that various modifications are possible within the scope of the invention claimed. Additionally the phrase consisting essentially of will be understood to include those elements specifically recited and those additional elements that do not materially affect the basic and novel characteristics of the claimed invention. The phrase consisting of excludes any element not specifically specified.

The present disclosure is not to be limited in terms of the particular embodiments described in this application. Many modifications and variations can be made without departing from its spirit and scope as will be apparent to those skilled in the art. Functionally equivalent methods and apparatuses within the scope of the disclosure in addition to those enumerated herein will be apparent to those skilled in the art from the foregoing descriptions. Such modifications and variations are intended to fall within the scope of the appended claims. The present disclosure is to be limited only by the terms of the appended claims along with the full scope of equivalents to which such claims are entitled. It is to be understood that this disclosure is not limited to particular methods reagents compounds compositions or biological systems which can of course vary. It is also to be understood that the terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting.

In addition where features or aspects of the disclosure are described in terms of Markush groups those skilled in the art will recognize that the disclosure is also thereby described in terms of any individual member or subgroup of members of the Markush group.

As will be understood by one skilled in the art for any and all purposes particularly in terms of providing a written description all ranges disclosed herein also encompass any and all possible subranges and combinations of subranges thereof. Any listed range can be easily recognized as sufficiently describing and enabling the same range being broken down into at least equal halves thirds quarters fifths tenths etc. As a non limiting example each range discussed herein can be readily broken down into a lower third middle third and upper third etc. As will also be understood by one skilled in the art all language such as up to at least greater than less than and the like include the number recited and refer to ranges which can be subsequently broken down into subranges as discussed above. Finally as will be understood by one skilled in the art a range includes each individual member.

While various aspects and embodiments have been disclosed herein other aspects and embodiments will be apparent to those skilled in the art. The various aspects and embodiments disclosed herein are for purposes of illustration and are not intended to be limiting with the true scope and spirit being indicated by the following claims.

