---

title: Vehicle operation in environments with second order objects
abstract: Arrangements related to the detection of objects in an external environment of a vehicle are presented. At least a portion of the external environment can be sensed to detect a first order object therein. It can be determined whether the first order object includes a translucent portion. Responsive to determining that the first order object includes a translucent portion, the translucent portion can be analyzed to determine whether a second order object is located within the translucent portion. Responsive to determining that a second order object is located within the translucent portion, the second order object can be analyzed. Information about the second order object can be presented to a vehicle occupant, an alert regarding the second order object can be presented to a vehicle occupant, and/or, when the vehicle is an autonomous vehicle, a driving maneuver for the autonomous vehicle can be determined.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09434382&OS=09434382&RS=09434382
owner: Toyota Motor Engineering & Manufacturing North America, Inc.
number: 09434382
owner_city: Erlanger
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150319
---
The subject matter described herein relates in general to vehicles and more particularly to the operation of vehicles in external environments in which one or more objects are located behind other objects.

Some vehicles include an operational mode in which a computing system is used to navigate and or maneuver the vehicle along a travel route with minimal or no input from a human driver. Such vehicles are equipped with sensors that are configured to detect information about the surrounding environment including the presence of objects in the environment. The computing systems are configured to process the detected information to determine how to navigate and or maneuver the vehicle through the surrounding environment. In some instances there may be one or more objects in the surrounding environment that are located behind another object causing them to be hidden from the vehicle sensors.

In one respect the present disclosure is directed to a method of detecting objects in an external environment of a vehicle. The method can include sensing at least a portion of the external environment to detect a first order object therein. The method can also include determining whether the first order object includes a translucent portion. The method can further include responsive to determining that the first order object includes a translucent portion analyzing the translucent portion to determine whether a second order object is located within the translucent portion. Such analyzing can be performed using a processor. In addition the method can include responsive to determining that a second order object is located within the translucent portion analyzing the second order object. Such analyzing can be performed using the processor.

In another respect the present disclosure is directed to a system for detecting objects in an external environment of a vehicle. The system includes a sensor system operable to sense at least a portion of the external environment to detect a first order object therein. The system includes a processor operatively connected to the sensor system. The processor can be programmed to initiate executable operations. The executable operations can include determining whether the first order object includes a translucent portion. The executable operations can also include responsive to determining that the first order object includes a translucent portion analyzing the translucent portion to determine whether a second order object is located within the translucent portion. The executable operations can further include responsive to determining that a second order object is located within the translucent portion analyzing the second order object.

In yet another respect the present disclosure is directed to a computer program product for operating an autonomous vehicle in occupant view and vehicle sensor obstructed environments. The computer program product includes a computer readable storage medium having program code embodied therein. The program code is executable by a processor to perform a method. The method includes sensing at least a portion of the external environment to detect a first order object therein. The method also includes determining whether the first order object includes a translucent portion. The method further includes responsive to determining that the first order object includes a translucent portion analyzing using a processor the translucent portion to determine whether a second order object is located within the translucent portion. The method includes responsive to determining that a second order object is located within the translucent portion analyzing using the processor the second order object.

This detailed description relates to detecting objects in an external environment of a vehicle. More particularly this detailed description relates to the detection and or analysis of second order objects in an external environment of a vehicle. As used herein a second order object is an object that is located behind another object relative to one or more vehicle sensors. A first order object is an object that is not located behind another object relative to one or more vehicle sensors.

In one or more implementations it can be determined whether a detected first order object includes a region of interest. In one or more arrangements the region of interest can be a window or other translucent portion of an object. In response to determining that the first order object includes a region of interest the region of interest can be analyzed to determine whether a second order object is located within the region of interest. In response to determining that a second order object is located within the region of interest the second order object can be analyzed. The present detailed description relates to systems methods and computer program products that incorporate such features. In at least some instances such systems methods and computer program products can enable human drivers to make more informed driving decisions and or can improve the operation of highly automated vehicles.

Detailed embodiments are disclosed herein however it is to be understood that the disclosed embodiments are intended only as exemplary. Therefore specific structural and functional details disclosed herein are not to be interpreted as limiting but merely as a basis for the claims and as a representative basis for teaching one skilled in the art to variously employ the aspects herein in virtually any appropriately detailed structure. Further the terms and phrases used herein are not intended to be limiting but rather to provide an understandable description of possible implementations. Various embodiments are shown in but the embodiments are not limited to the illustrated structure or application.

It will be appreciated that for simplicity and clarity of illustration where appropriate reference numerals have been repeated among the different figures to indicate corresponding or analogous elements. In addition numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the embodiments described herein. However it will be understood by those of ordinary skill in the art that the embodiments described herein can be practiced without these specific details.

Referring to an example a vehicle is shown. As used herein vehicle means any form of motorized transport. In one or more implementations the vehicle can be an automobile. While arrangements will be described herein with respect to automobiles it will be understood that embodiments are not limited to automobiles. In one or more implementations the vehicle may be a watercraft an aircraft or any other form of motorized transport.

The vehicle can have an associated longitudinal axis which can be the central axis of the vehicle . The vehicle can have an associated longitudinal direction . Longitudinal direction means any direction that is substantially parallel to and or substantially co linear with the longitudinal axis . As used herein the term substantially includes exactly the term it modifies and slight variations therefrom. Thus the term substantially parallel means exactly parallel and slight variations therefrom e.g. within normal manufacturing tolerances within about 10 degrees or less within about 5 degrees or less within about 3 degrees or less etc. . The vehicle can have an associated lateral axis which can be substantially perpendicular to the longitudinal axis . The vehicle can have an associated lateral direction . Lateral direction means any direction that is substantially parallel to and or substantially co linear with the lateral axis .

According to arrangements herein the vehicle can be an autonomous vehicle. As used herein autonomous vehicle means a vehicle that configured to operate in an autonomous mode. Autonomous mode means that one or more computing systems are used to navigate and or maneuver the vehicle along a travel route with minimal or no input from a human driver. In one or more arrangements the vehicle can be highly automated.

In some instances the vehicle can be configured to be selectively switched between an autonomous mode and a manual mode. Such switching can be implemented in any suitable manner now known or later developed. Manual mode means that a majority of the navigation and or maneuvering of the vehicle along a travel route is performed by a human driver. The manual mode can include vehicles in which some of the vehicle systems operations and or functions that are automated. As an example a vehicle that is operated manually but includes cruise control or adaptive cruise control systems can be considered to be in the manual mode. While arrangements will be described herein in connection with an autonomous vehicle it will be understood that arrangements are not limited to autonomous vehicles. Indeed in some arrangements the vehicle can be configured to operate in only a manual mode.

The vehicle can include various elements some of which may be a part of an autonomous driving system. Some of the possible elements of the vehicle are shown in and will now be described. It will be understood that it is not necessary for the vehicle to have all of the elements shown in or described herein. The vehicle can have any combination of the various elements shown in . Further the vehicle can have additional elements to those shown in . In some arrangements vehicle may not include one or more of the elements shown in . Further while the various elements are shown as being located within the vehicle in it will be understood that one or more of these elements can be located external to the vehicle . Further the elements shown may be physically separated by large distances.

The vehicle can include one or more processors . Processor means any component or group of components that are configured to execute any of the processes described herein or any form of instructions to carry out such processes or cause such processes to be performed. The processor may be implemented with one or more general purpose and or one or more special purpose processors. Examples of suitable processors include microprocessors microcontrollers DSP processors and other circuitry that can execute software. Further examples of suitable processors include but are not limited to a central processing unit CPU an array processor a vector processor a digital signal processor DSP a field programmable gate array FPGA a programmable logic array PLA an application specific integrated circuit ASIC programmable logic circuitry and a controller. The processor can include at least one hardware circuit e.g. an integrated circuit configured to carry out instructions contained in program code. In arrangements in which there is a plurality of processors such processors can work independently from each other or one or more processors can work in combination with each other. In one or more arrangements the processor can be a main processor of the vehicle . For instance the processor can be an engine control unit ECU .

The vehicle can include one or more data stores for storing one or more types of data. The data store can include volatile and or non volatile memory. Examples of suitable data stores include RAM Random Access Memory flash memory ROM Read Only Memory PROM Programmable Read Only Memory EPROM Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory EEPROM Electrically Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory registers magnetic disks optical disks hard drives or any other suitable storage medium or any combination thereof. The data store can be a component of the processor or the data store can be operatively connected to the processor for use thereby. The term operatively connected as used throughout this description can include direct or indirect connections including connections without direct physical contact.

The one or more data stores can stores any suitable type of data. For instance in one or more arrangements the one or more data stores can include one or more traffic rules libraries . In one or more arrangements the traffic rules libraries can be located in a source external to the vehicle e.g. in a cloud based data store . In one or more arrangements the one or more traffic rules libraries can be included as part of one or more of the data stores . In one or more arrangements the traffic rules libraries can be included as part of and or accessed by one or more modules e.g. the object classification identification module and or the object analysis module .

The traffic rules library can include a set of traffic rules. The term set of traffic rules means one or more traffic rules. As used herein traffic rule is any law rule ordinance or authority that governs the operation of a motor vehicle including motor vehicles in motion and motor vehicles that are parked or otherwise not in motion. The traffic rules can be international federal national state city township and or local laws rules ordinances and or authorities.

In one or more arrangements the vehicle can include one or more object movement profiles . In one or more arrangements the object movement profiles can be included as part of one or more of the data stores . In one or more arrangements the object movement profiles can be located in a source external to the vehicle e.g. in a cloud based data store . In one or more arrangements the object movement profiles can be included as part of and or accessed by one or more modules e.g. the object classification identification module and or the object analysis module .

In one or more arrangements one or more object movement profiles can include any information or data that defines and or is indicative of a movement of an object e.g. a vehicle . Examples of such movements can include approaching moving away from stopping slowing down and or crossing transversely with respect to the vehicle just to name a few possibilities. For instance headlights growing in size may be indicative of a vehicle heading toward the vehicle from an opposite direction.

Other motions can be included in the object movement profiles . For example one or more of the object movement profiles can be directed to sliding motions such as may occur when an object is moving on a wet icy and or snowy road. In one or more arrangements one or more of the object movement profiles can be can be directed to swerving motions such as may occur when an object is a vehicle being operated by an intoxicated drowsy and or distracted driver. In one or more arrangements one or more of the object movement profiles can be directed to movements or motions that are in violation of a traffic rule.

In one or more arrangements the vehicle can include one or more predefined object profiles . In one or more arrangements the predefined object profiles can be included as part of one or more of the data stores . In one or more arrangements the predefined object profiles can be located in a source external to the vehicle e.g. in a cloud based data store . In one or more arrangements the predefined object profiles can be included as part of and or accessed by one or more modules e.g. the object classification identification module and or the object analysis module .

The predefined object profiles can include data and or information regarding a plurality of different objects. The predefined object profiles can include data and or information relating to one or more vehicles and or one or more parts thereof e.g. one or more windows headlights taillights license plates wheels tires etc. . Alternatively or in addition the predefined object profiles can include data and or information relating to non vehicular objects e.g. pedestrians animals etc. . The data information can be provided in any suitable form. For instance the data information can be images or other information e.g. one or more dimensions physical characteristics electromagnetic signatures etc. .

In one or more arrangements the vehicle can include one or more predefined filtered object profiles . In one or more arrangements the one or more predefined filtered object profiles can be included as part of one or more of the data stores . In one or more arrangements the one or more predefined filtered object profiles can be located in a source external to the vehicle e.g. in a cloud based data store . In one or more arrangements the one or more predefined filtered object profiles can be included as part of one or more modules e.g. the object classification identification module and or the object analysis module .

The one or more predefined filtered object profiles can include any information or data relating to objects that are to be ignored or filtered from a region of interest of a first order object. As used herein region of interest means any portion of a detected object that is identified for additional analysis. The predefined filtered object profiles can be objects that are typically expected to be present in the region of interest of a first order object. As an example the one or more predefined filtered object profiles can include any information or data relating to objects associated with the first order object that are to be ignored or filtered from a region of interest.

For instance in one or more arrangements the region of interest can be a translucent portion e.g. a window of a vehicle. In such case examples of predefined filtered object profiles include one or more body parts of human occupants e.g. head shoulders etc. and or one or more vehicle interior components e.g. vehicle seats headrests rearview mirrors etc. and or one or more vehicle accessories e.g. window mounted toll payment devices air fresheners hanging from the rearview mirror decorations hanging from the rearview mirror or applied to a window etc. just to name a few possibilities.

The vehicle can include a driving module . The driving module can be implemented as computer readable program code that when executed by a processor implement one or more of the various processes described herein. For example in the case of an autonomous operational mode such processes can include determining current driving maneuvers for the vehicle future driving maneuvers and or modifications to current or future vehicle driving maneuvers. The driving module can also cause directly or indirectly such driving maneuvers or modifications thereto to be implemented. As another example in non autonomous vehicle applications or in a manual operational mode such processes can include determining when to issue a warning or alert to the driver of the vehicle .

The driving module can be a component of the processor or the driving module can be executed on and or distributed among other processing systems to which the processor is operatively connected. The driving module can include instructions e.g. program logic executable by the processor . Such instructions can include instructions to execute various vehicle functions and or to transmit data to receive data from interact with and or control the vehicle or one or more systems thereof e.g. one or more of vehicle systems . Such instructions can include issuing warnings alerts and or notifications to one or more vehicle occupants. Alternatively or in addition the data store may contain such instructions.

The vehicle can include an object classification identification module . The object classification identification module can be implemented as computer readable program code that when executed by a processor implement one or more of the various processes described herein. The object classification identification module can be a component of the processor or the object classification identification module can be executed on and or distributed among other processing systems to which the processor is operatively connected.

The object classification identification module can be configured to detect analyze assess and or interpret information about an external environment of the vehicle to classify and or identify one or more objects in the external environment. In one or more arrangements the object classification identification module can include artificial or computational intelligence elements e.g. neural network fuzzy logic or other machine learning algorithms.

The object classification identification module can be configured to classify and or identify any type of object in the external environment. For instance the object classification identification module can be configured to classify and or identify detected objects as vehicles bicyclists pedestrians animals or other suitable category or class. The object classification identification module can be configured to classify objects detected in the external environment. For instance the object classification identification module can classify objects as first order object or second order objects. These are just a few of the potential classifications into which objects can be classified by the object classification identification module .

In one or more arrangements the object classification identification module can be configured to classify and or identify one or more regions of interest of a detected object. One example of a region of interest with respect to other detected vehicles particularly other vehicles that are first order objects is one or more translucent portions. As used herein translucent portion means that any structure element region and or area of a detected object through which light can at least partially pass. Thus when the translucent portion is viewed from one side one or more objects located on the opposite side of the translucent portion are at least partially visually or otherwise detectable by vehicle sensors. As used herein translucent includes translucent as well as transparent. One example of a translucent portion of a vehicle is a window e.g. front windshield rear windshield side windows etc. .

In some instances the translucent portion can include a plurality of overlapping translucent portions of the same first order object with respect to one or more of the vehicle sensors. For instance when the first order object is another vehicle located in front of and in the same travel lane as the vehicle the translucent portion can be defined by the rear window of the first order object and or the front window of the first order object. In such instances the translucent portion can be defined by the overlapping portions of the front window and the rear window.

In some arrangements the sensor system the processor and or the object classification identification module can be configured to detect determine assess measure quantify and or sense directly or indirectly one or more dimensions of a detected object. For instance based on data received from one or more sensors of the sensor system a direct measurement of one or more dimensions of a detected object can be determined. Examples of dimensions that can be detected determined assessed measured quantified and or sensed directly or indirectly include length width and or height.

The object classification identification module can also include any suitable vehicle recognition software or other object recognition software. The vehicle recognition software or other object recognition software can analyze one or more images captured by a camera system of the vehicle . The vehicle recognition software or other object recognition software can query the one or more predefined object profiles for possible matches. For instance images captured by the camera system can be compared to images in the predefined object profiles for possible matches. Alternatively or in addition measurements or other aspects of an image captured by the camera system and or the sensor system can be compared to measurements or other information or data in the predefined object profiles . The object classification identification module can identify the detected object as a particular type of vehicle if there is a match between the captured image and an image in the vehicle database. In this context match or matches means that an image or other information data collected by the sensor system or the camera system is substantially identical to one or more of the predefined object profiles . For instance the an image or other information collected by the camera system and one or more of the images in the predefined object profiles can match within a predetermined probability e.g. at least about 85 at least about 90 at least about 95 or greater or confidence level.

In one or more arrangements the vehicle can include an object analysis module . The object analysis module can be implemented as computer readable program code that when executed by a processor implement one or more of the various processes described herein. The object analysis module can be a component of the processor or the object analysis module can be executed on and or distributed among other processing systems to which the processor is operatively connected. In one or more arrangements the object analysis module can include artificial or computational intelligence elements e.g. neural network fuzzy logic or other machine learning algorithms.

The object analysis module can be configured to analyze assess and or interpret information about an object or a portion thereof detected in the external environment of the vehicle . In one or more arrangements the object analysis module can be configured to analyze assess and or interpret information about a region of interest of a detected first order object in the external environment of the vehicle . In one or more arrangements the object analysis module can be configured to analyze assess and or interpret information about a second order object detectable within a region of interest of a first order object. As an example when the region of interest is a translucent portion the object analysis module can be configured to analyze assess and or interpret information about the translucent portion.

The object analysis module can be configured to detect relevant parts of first and or second order vehicles and or relevant second order objects pedestrians bicyclists etc. . The object analysis module can be configured to track the motion of second order objects. As an example the object analysis module can be configured to detect one or more second order objects through the window s of a first order object e.g. another vehicle located in front of the vehicle . The object analysis module can be configured to track the behavior and or movement of the one or more second order objects. The object analysis module can be configured for part based reasoning for image understanding. Thus the object analysis module can be configured to detect and or recognize sub features of a second order object. For instance with respect to another vehicle such sub features can include headlights taillights and or license plates just to name a few possibilities. The object analysis module can implement any suitable form of object behavior and or movement tracking now known or later developed.

The object analysis module can be configured to ignore or filter and thus effectively ignore one or more objects from a region of interest that are not pertinent to the analysis of the object analysis module . To that end the object analysis module can include and or have access to the one or more predefined filtered object profiles . For instance when the region of interest is one or more windows of a vehicle e.g. a rear window and or a front window the object analysis module can filter headrests rearview mirrors visors decals toll payment devices and human occupant body parts e.g. heads detectable within the window.

As an example the object analysis module can analyze an image captured by the camera system . The image may be a portion of an image such as a portion including the region of interest. The object analysis module can query the predefined filtered object profiles for possible matches. If there is a match the objects in the region of interest that match one or more of the predefined filtered object profiles can be ignored or filtered from consideration or analysis.

While the various modules are shown and described as being separate modules it will be understood that arrangements are not limited in this regard. Indeed the modules can be a single module or two or more of the modules or portions thereof can be combined in any suitable manner.

As noted above the vehicle can include the sensor system . The sensor system can include one or more sensors. Sensor means any device component and or system that can detect determine assess monitor measure quantify and or sense something. The one or more sensors can be configured to detect determine assess monitor measure quantify and or sense in real time. As used herein the term real time means a level of processing responsiveness that a user or system senses as sufficiently immediate for a particular process or determination to be made or that enables the processor to keep up with some external process.

In arrangements in which the sensor system includes a plurality of sensors the sensors can work independently from each other. Alternatively two or more of the sensors can work in combination with each other. The sensor system and or the one or more sensors can be operatively connected to the processor the data store the driving module and or other element of the vehicle .

The sensor system can include any suitable type of sensor. For example the sensor system can include one or more sensors configured to detect determine assess monitor measure quantify and or sense information about the vehicle . Alternatively or in addition the sensor system can include one or more sensors configured to detect determine assess monitor measure quantify and or sense information about the external environment in which the vehicle is located including information about objects in the external environment. Such objects may be stationary object or moving objects. Alternatively or in addition to one or more of the above examples the sensor system can include one or more sensors configured to detect determine assess monitor measure quantify and or sense the location of the vehicle and or the location of objects in the environment relative to the vehicle . Various examples of these and other types of sensors will be described herein. It will be understood that the embodiments are not limited to the particular sensors described.

The sensor system can include one or more sensors configured to detect determine assess monitor measure quantify and or sense position and orientation changes of the vehicle such as for example based on inertial acceleration. In one or more arrangements the sensor system can include accelerometers gyroscopes and or other suitable sensors. The sensor system can include sensors that can monitor one or more internal systems of the vehicle e.g. an Omonitor a fuel gauge an engine oil temperature coolant temperature etc. .

The sensor system can include one or more environment sensors . The environment sensors can be configured to detect determine assess monitor measure quantify and or sense objects in at least a portion of the external environment of the vehicle and or information data about such objects. The one or more environment sensors can be provided in any suitable location of the vehicle. In one or more arrangements one or more of the environment sensors can use at least in part radio signals e.g. RADAR based sensors . In one or more arrangements one or more of the environment sensors can use at least in part lasers e.g. LIDAR based sensors . In one or more arrangements one or more of the environment sensors can use at least in part ultrasound signals. In one or more arrangements one or more of the environment sensors can use at least in part any other suitable type of signal. In one or more arrangements one or more of the environment sensors can use at least in part any combination of the above signals. The sensor system can include any combination of the above and or other types of environment sensors .

The one or more environment sensors can be configured to detect determine assess monitor measure quantify and or sense directly or indirectly the presence of one or more objects in the external environment of the vehicle the position of each detected object relative to the vehicle the distance between each detected object and the vehicle in one or more directions e.g. in the longitudinal direction the lateral direction and or other direction s the speed of each detected object and or the movement of each detected object just to name a few possibilities.

In some arrangements the sensor system the processor and or one or more of the modules can be configured to detect determine assess monitor measure quantify and or sense directly or indirectly one or more aspects characteristics and or properties of a detected object. For example the sensor system the processor and or one or more of the modules can be configured to detect determine assess monitor measure quantify and or sense directly or indirectly the size relative size length width height a dimension the material a material property the speed the acceleration and or the trajectory of a detected object.

Alternatively or in addition to any of the sensors described above the sensor system can include other types of sensors. The sensor system the processor and or one or more of the modules can be operable to control movements of one or more of the sensors of the sensor system . It should be noted that any of the sensors described herein can be provided in any suitable location with respect to the vehicle . For instance one or more sensors can be located within the vehicle one or more sensors can be located on the exterior of the vehicle and or one or more sensors can be located so as to be exposed to the exterior of the vehicle . As another example one or more sensors can be provided in one or more elevated positions of the vehicle to provide a different detection area for the sensor system .

As noted above the vehicle can include a camera system . In one or more arrangements the camera system can be a part of the sensor system . The camera system can include a one or more cameras . Camera is defined as any device component and or system that can capture visual data. Visual data includes video and or image information data. The visual data can be in any suitable form. The one or more cameras can be high resolution cameras. The high resolution can refer to the pixel resolution the spatial resolution spectral resolution temporal resolution and or radiometric resolution. In one or more arrangements the one or more cameras can be high dynamic range HDR cameras or infrared IR cameras.

In one or more arrangements one or more of the cameras can include a lens not shown and an image capture element not shown . The image capture element can be any suitable type of image capturing device or system including for example an area array sensor a Charge Coupled Device CCD sensor a Complementary Metal Oxide Semiconductor CMOS sensor a linear array sensor a CCD monochrome . The image capture element may capture images in any suitable wavelength on the electromagnetic spectrum. The image capture element may capture color images and or grayscale images. One or more of the cameras can be configured with zoom in and or zoom out capabilities.

In one or more arrangements one or more of the cameras can be oriented positioned configured operable and or arranged to capture visual data from at least a portion of the external environment of the vehicle . The one or more cameras can be located in any suitable portion of the vehicle . For instance one or more of the cameras can be located within the vehicle . One or more of the cameras can be located on the exterior of the vehicle . One or more of the cameras can be located on or exposed to the exterior of the vehicle .

The position of one or more of the cameras can be fixed such that its position does not change relative to the vehicle . One or more of the cameras can be movable so that its position can change to allow visual data from different portions of the external environment of the vehicle to be captured. The movement of the cameras can be achieved in any suitable manner. For instance the cameras can be rotatable about one or more axes pivotable slidable and or extendable just to name a few possibilities. In one or more arrangements the cameras can have any suitable range of motion including for example substantially spherical substantially hemi spherical substantially circular and or substantially linear. As used herein the term substantially includes exactly the term it modifies and slight variations therefrom. Thus for example the term substantially spherical means exactly spherical and slight variations therefrom. The one or more cameras and or the movement of the one or more cameras can be controlled by the camera system the sensor system the processor and or any one or more of the modules .

The vehicle can include an input system . An input system is defined as any device component system element or arrangement or groups thereof that enable information data to be entered into a machine. The input system can receive an input from a vehicle occupant e.g. a driver or a passenger . Any suitable input system can be used including for example a keypad display touch screen multi touch screen button joystick mouse trackball microphone and or combinations thereof.

The vehicle can include an output system . An output system is defined as any device component system element or arrangement or groups thereof that enable information data to be presented to a vehicle occupant e.g. a person a vehicle occupant etc. . The output system can present information data to a vehicle occupant. The output system can include a display as described above. Alternatively or in addition the output system may include a microphone earphone and or speaker. Some components of the vehicle may serve as both a component of the input system and a component of the output system .

In one or more arrangements described herein at least a portion of the output system can be activated to provide an alert based on the presence behavior and or movement of a second order object. The output system can be configured to present an alert to one or more occupants of the vehicle . The alert can be any type of alert including for example a visual alert. Visual alert is any output that provides information in a manner that is perceptible to the human sense of sight. The visual alert can visually alert a vehicle occupant to the presence of behavior of movement of and or other information about a second order object detected in the external environment of the vehicle .

The visual alert can be presented by one or more components of the output system such as one or more displays and or one or more light sources located within in the vehicle . A display is defined as a component or a group of components that present information data in visual form including for example video images graphics etc. In one or more arrangements the display can be located in a front interior portion of a vehicle . As an example the display can be included in a dashboard or instrument panel not shown of the vehicle .

The display can be any suitable type of display. For instance the display can be a liquid crystal display LCD a light emitting diode LED display or some other suitable display. In one or more arrangements the display can be a touch screen display a multi touch display or a remotely controlled display. A touch screen can allow a user to engage or interact with one or more displayed elements such as a graphical user interface GUI and or other applications running on any vehicle system including any of those described herein through contact with the forward display. For example a user may make selections and move a cursor by simply touching the forward display via a finger or stylus.

The visual alert can have any suitable form. In one or more arrangements the visual alert can be a word a phrase or a message presented on the display. Alternatively or in addition the visual alert can be presented by activating one or more light sources. The one or more light sources can generate or emit any type of light energy.

Alternatively or in addition being a visual alert the alert can be an audial alert. Audial alert is any output that provides information in a manner that is perceptible to the human sense of hearing. The audial alert can inform a vehicle occupant to the presence of an object detected in the external environment of the vehicle that is located outside of the determined occupant viewable area. The audial alert can have any suitable form. The audial alert can be presented by one or more components of the output system such as by being emitted over one or more speakers or over one or more in vehicle audio channels. Speaker means one or more elements one or more devices one or more components one or more systems and or any combination thereof that produce sound in response to an audio signal input. Examples of speakers include for example electroacoustic transducers sound chips and sound cards. Each speaker can have one or more audio output channels not shown operatively connected thereto. Audio output channel means any suitable device component or structure for carrying audio signals. The audial alert can be a sound a plurality of sounds a word a phrase or a message.

The vehicle can include one or more vehicle systems . Various examples of the one or more vehicle systems are shown in . However the vehicle can include more fewer or different systems. It should be appreciated that although particular vehicle systems are separately defined each or any of the systems or portions thereof may be otherwise combined or segregated via hardware and or software within the vehicle .

The vehicle can include a propulsion system . The propulsion system can include one or more mechanisms devices elements components systems and or combinations thereof now known or later developed configured to provide powered motion for the vehicle . The propulsion system can include an engine and an energy source.

The engine can be any suitable type of engine or motor now known or later developed. For instance the engine can be an internal combustion engine an electric motor a steam engine and or a Stirling engine just to name a few possibilities. In some embodiments the propulsion system could include a plurality of engine types. For instance a gas electric hybrid vehicle can include a gasoline engine and an electric motor.

The energy source can be any suitable source of energy that can be used to at least partially power the engine. The engine can be configured to convert the energy source into mechanical energy. Examples of energy sources include gasoline diesel propane hydrogen other compressed gas based fuels ethanol solar panels batteries and or other sources of electrical power. Alternatively or in addition the energy source can include fuel tanks batteries capacitors and or flywheels. In some embodiments the energy source can be used to provide energy for other systems of the vehicle .

The vehicle can include wheels tires and or tracks. Any suitable type of wheels tires and or tracks can be used. In one or more arrangements the wheels tires and or tracks of the vehicle can be configured to rotate differentially with respect to other wheels tires and or tracks of the vehicle . The wheels tires and or tracks can be made of any suitable material.

The vehicle can include a braking system . The braking system can include one or more mechanisms devices elements components systems and or combinations thereof now known or later developed configured to decelerate the vehicle . As an example the braking system can use friction to slow the wheels tires. The braking system can convert the kinetic energy of the wheels tires to electric current.

Further the vehicle can include a steering system . The steering system can include one or more mechanisms devices elements components systems and or combinations thereof now known or later developed configured to adjust the heading of the vehicle .

The vehicle can include a throttle system . The throttle system can include one or more mechanisms devices elements components systems and or combinations thereof now known or later developed configured to control the operating speed of an engine motor of the vehicle and in turn the speed of the vehicle .

The vehicle can include a transmission system . The transmission system can include one or more mechanisms devices elements components systems and or combinations thereof now known or later developed configured to transmit mechanical power from the engine motor of the vehicle to the wheels tires. For instance the transmission system can include a gearbox clutch differential drive shafts and or other elements. In arrangements where the transmission system includes drive shafts the drive shafts can include one or more axles that are configured to be coupled to the wheels tires.

The vehicle can include a signaling system . The signaling system can include one or more mechanisms devices elements components systems and or combinations thereof now known or later developed configured to provide illumination for the driver of the vehicle and or to provide information with respect to one or more aspects of the vehicle . For instance the signaling system can provide information regarding the vehicle s presence position size direction of travel and or the driver s intentions regarding direction and speed of travel. For instance the signaling system can include headlights taillights brake lights hazard lights and turn signal lights.

The vehicle can include a navigation system . The navigation system can include one or more mechanisms devices elements components systems applications and or combinations thereof now known or later developed configured to determine the geographic location of the vehicle and or to determine a travel route for the vehicle .

The navigation system can include one or more mapping applications to determine a travel route for the vehicle . For instance a driver or passenger may input an origin and a destination. The mapping application can determine one or more suitable travel routes between the origin and the destination. A travel route may be selected based on one or more parameters e.g. shortest travel distance shortest amount of travel time etc. . In some arrangements the navigation system can be configured to update the travel route dynamically while the vehicle is in operation.

The navigation system can include a global positioning system a local positioning system or a geolocation system. The navigation system can be implemented with any one of a number of satellite positioning systems such as the United States Global Positioning System GPS the Russian Glonass system the European Galileo system the Chinese Beidou system or any system that uses satellites from a combination of satellite systems or any satellite system developed in the future including the planned Chinese COMPASS system and the Indian Regional Navigational Satellite System. Further the navigation system can use Transmission Control Protocol TCP and or a Geographic information system GIS and location services.

The navigation system may include a transceiver configured to estimate a position of the vehicle with respect to the Earth. For example navigation system can include a GPS transceiver to determine the vehicle s latitude longitude and or altitude. The navigation system can use other systems e.g. laser based localization systems inertial aided GPS and or camera based localization to determine the location of the vehicle .

Alternatively or in addition the navigation system can be based on access point geolocation services such as using the W3C Geolocation Application Programming Interface API . With such a system the location of the vehicle can be determined through the consulting of location information servers including for example Internet protocol IP address Wi Fi and Bluetooth Media Access Control MAC address radio frequency identification RFID Wi Fi connection location or device GPS and Global System for Mobile Communications GSM code division multiple access CDMA cell IDs. Thus it will be understood that the specific manner in which the geographic position of the vehicle is determined will depend on the manner of operation of the particular location tracking system used.

The processor and or the driving module can be operatively connected to communicate with the various vehicle systems and or individual components thereof. For example returning to the processor and or the driving module can be in communication to send and or receive information from the various vehicle systems to control the movement speed maneuvering heading direction etc. of vehicle . The processor and or the driving module may control some or all of these vehicle systems and thus may be partially or fully autonomous. In a manual mode of operation the various vehicle systems and or individual components thereof can be controlled by user input.

The processor and or the driving module may be operable to control the navigation and or maneuvering of the vehicle by controlling one or more of the vehicle systems and or components thereof. For instance when operating in an autonomous mode the processor and or the driving module can control the direction and or speed of the vehicle . The processor and or the driving module can cause the vehicle to accelerate e.g. by increasing the supply of fuel provided to the engine decelerate e.g. by decreasing the supply of fuel to the engine and or by applying brakes and or change direction e.g. by turning the front two wheels . As used herein cause or causing means to make force compel direct command instruct and or enable an event or action to occur or at least be in a state where such event or action may occur either in a direct or indirect manner.

The vehicle can include one or more actuators . The actuators can be any element or combination of elements operable to modify adjust and or alter one or more of the vehicle systems or components thereof to responsive to receiving signals or other inputs from the processor and or the driving module . Any suitable actuator now known or later developed can be used. For instance the one or more actuators can include motors pneumatic actuators hydraulic pistons relays solenoids and or piezoelectric actuators just to name a few possibilities.

According to arrangements herein the vehicle or one or more elements thereof can be configured to detect one or more first order objects in the external environment. The vehicle or one or more elements thereof can be configured to determine whether the one or more first order objects includes a region of interest such as for example a translucent portion. The vehicle or one or more elements thereof can be configured to analyze the region of interest to determine whether a second order object is located within the region of interest.

In one or more arrangements in response to determining that a second order object is located within a region of interest of a first order object the second order object can be analyzed. The vehicle can be configured to take one or more actions based at least in part on the analysis of the second order object. Any suitable action can be taken based at least in part on the analysis of the second order object.

In one or more arrangements the action can include presenting information relating to and or based on the second order object to one or more vehicle occupants. In one or more arrangements the action can include presenting an alert warning and or notification within the vehicle . In one or more arrangements an alert warning and or notification can be presented responsive to determining that the second order object is exhibiting a predefined behavior. In one or more arrangements the action can be determining a driving maneuver for the autonomous vehicle at least partially based on information about the second order object. In one or more arrangements the action can be causing the autonomous vehicle to implement the determined driving maneuver or causing a current driving maneuver of the vehicle to be modified. These and other examples of possible actions will be described in greater detail throughout this description.

Now that the various potential systems devices elements and or components of the vehicle have been described various methods for operating such a vehicle in an external environment will now be described. Referring now to an example of a method of detecting one or more second order object in an external environment is shown. Various possible steps of method will now be described. The method illustrated in may be applicable to the embodiments described above in relation to but it is understood that the method can be carried out with other suitable systems and arrangements. Moreover the method may include other steps that are not shown here and in fact the method is not limited to including every step shown in . The steps that are illustrated here as part of the method are not limited to this particular chronological order. Indeed some of the steps may be performed in a different order than what is shown and or at least some of the steps shown can occur simultaneously.

At block at least a portion of the external environment can be sensed to detect a first order object therein. The sensing of the external environment to detect the presence of one or more first order objects location therein can be performed by any suitable element or combination of elements of the vehicle . In one or more arrangements the sensing of the external environment can be performed at least in part by the sensor system or component thereof the camera system or portion thereof and or the processor . The first order object can be one or more other vehicles. The method can continue to block .

At block it can be determined whether the first order object includes a region of interest. Such a determination can be performed by any suitable element or combination of elements of the vehicle . For instance in one or more arrangements the determining can be performed by the processor the sensor system the camera system the object classification identification module and or the object analysis module . In one or more arrangements the region of interest can be a translucent portion. For example when the second order object is another vehicle the translucent portion can be one or more windows. The following discussion of the method will be described in connection with the region of interest being a translucent portion. However it will be understood that the method is not limited to translucent portions. Indeed the method can be used in connection with any kind of region of interest. The method can continue to block .

At block responsive to determining that the first order object includes a translucent portion the translucent portion can be analyzed to determine whether a second order object is located within the translucent portion. In this context located within means that the second order is detectable within a detection area defined by the translucent portion or other region of interest of the first order object. Such a determination can be performed by any suitable element or combination of elements of the vehicle . For instance in one or more arrangements the determining can be performed by the processor the sensor system the camera system the object classification identification module and or object analysis module . The method can continue to block .

At block responsive to determining that a second order object is located within the translucent portion the second order object can be analyzed. Such analyzing can be performed by any suitable element or combination of elements of the vehicle . For instance in one or more arrangements the analyzing can be performed by the processor the sensor system the camera system the object classification identification module and or object analysis module . The second order object can be analyzed in any suitable manner. For instance the behavior and or movement of the second order object can be tracked and or analyzed.

The method can end. Alternatively the method can return to block . As a further alternative the method can include additional and or alternative blocks not shown . For instance an action can be taken based at least in part on the analysis of the second order object. As an example an alert warning and or notification can be generated at least partially based on the analysis of the second order object. As another example in the case of an autonomous vehicle or a vehicle operating in an autonomous mode a future driving maneuver of the vehicle can be determined at least partially based on the analysis of the second order object. In one or more arrangements the future driving maneuver can be caused to be automatically implemented. In one or more arrangements the processor and or the driving module can cause the vehicle to implement the future driving maneuver. The processor and or the driving module can be operatively connected to one or more of the vehicle systems to cause the future driving maneuver to be implemented. In one or more arrangements the processor and or the driving module can be operable to control the one or more actuators which can control one or more of the vehicle systems or portions thereof to implement the future driving maneuver.

In one or more arrangements causing the future driving maneuver to be implemented can be performed automatically. In one or more arrangements a vehicle occupant e.g. a driver and or other passenger can be prompted to provide permission to implement the future driving maneuver. The vehicle occupant can be prompted in any suitable manner. For instance a prompt can be presented on a display within the vehicle . Alternatively or in addition the prompt can be audibly output to the vehicle occupant over one or more audial channels. Other forms of prompting can be used as an alternative or in addition to the above described forms of prompting. Responsive to receiving an input corresponding to a vehicle occupant s approval to implement the future driving maneuver the vehicle can be caused to implement the future driving maneuver.

One non limiting example of the operation of the vehicle in accordance with the method will now be described in relation to . For purposes of this example the vehicle can be traveling in an environment that includes a road . As used herein road means a thoroughfare route path or way between two places and upon which a vehicle can travel. A road may be paved or otherwise improved to facilitate travel by a vehicle thereon. In some instances a road may be unpaved or undeveloped. A road may be a public road or a private road. The road can include or be a part of one or more bridges tunnels supporting structures junctions crossings interchanges and toll roads.

The road can include a plurality of travel lanes including a first travel lane a second travel lane and a third travel lane . As used herein a travel lane is a portion of a road that is designated for use by a single line of vehicles and or a portion of a road that is being used by a single line of vehicles. In some instances the one or more travel lanes can be designated by markings on the road or in any other suitable manner. In some instances the one or more travel lanes may not be marked. The plurality of travel lanes can be intended or designated for vehicular travel in a first direction .

It will be understood that arrangements shown and described herein with respect to the road and the plurality of travel lanes are provided merely as examples and arrangements are not limited to the particular arrangements shown and described. Indeed arrangements described herein can be used in connection with roads having any quantity type and or arrangement of travel lanes. For instance arrangements described herein can be used in connection with any road configuration including roads that have a greater quantity of travel lanes a lesser quantity of travel lanes and or at least one travel lane that is intended or designated for vehicular travel is a different travel direction that the other travel lanes.

The vehicle can be traveling on the road . The current travel path of the vehicle can include traveling in the first direction on the road . The current travel lane of the vehicle can be travel lane . Current travel lane means a travel lane that a vehicle is traveling on at the present time.

The environment can include a first other vehicle a second other vehicle a third other vehicle and a fourth other vehicle . The second other vehicle can include a rear window and a front window . The third other vehicle can include a first side window and a second side window .

The first other vehicle the second other vehicle the third other vehicle and the fourth other vehicle can be traveling in the first direction on the road . The current travel lane of the first other vehicle and the second other vehicle can be the travel lane . The first other vehicle and the second other vehicle can be located forward of the vehicle in the travel direction . The current travel lane of the third other vehicle can be the travel lane . The current travel lane of the fourth other vehicle can be the travel lane .

The third other vehicle can be located on a left lateral side of the vehicle . At least a portion of the third other vehicle can be located forward of the vehicle in the travel direction . The fourth other vehicle can be located on a left lateral side of the vehicle . At least a portion of the fourth other vehicle can be located forward of the vehicle in the travel direction . The fourth other vehicle can be located more forward of the vehicle in the travel direction than the third other vehicle as is shown in .

The vehicle can sense at least a portion of the environment such as by using the sensor system and or the camera system to acquire visual data and or other information. In one or more arrangements the visual data and or other information can be initially processed initially to avoid corrupted data information.

The vehicle can detect any first order objects in the environment . At the moment shown in the first order objects would include the first other vehicle and the third other vehicle . In some arrangements the vehicle may be configured to identify the nature of the first order objects. For instance the vehicle can determine whether the first order objects are other vehicles. The identification of the nature of a first order object can be performed by for example the object classification identification module and or the one or more processors .

The sensor system may acquire any suitable information regarding the first order objects. For instance the sensor system can acquire the location and or speed of the first order objects the first other vehicle and the third other vehicle in . In some instances the sensor system may be able to acquire data or information related to the location and relative motion of one or more second order objects e.g. the second other vehicle and or the fourth other vehicle in the environment . Such data and information can be acquired by the sensor system in any suitable manner. For instance the sensor system can analyze the radar reflections of the second order objects. However in at least some instances such information or data may be unreliable due to severe occlusions and or insufficient lateral accuracy of radar reflections requiring confirmations by analyzing video data.

The vehicle can determine whether the detected first order objects include a region of interest. For purposes of this example the region of interest can be a translucent portion. In the arrangements shown in one example of a translucent portion would include the rear window and or the front window of the first other vehicle . Another example of a translucent portion would be the first side window and or the second side window of the third other vehicle .

With respect to the first other vehicle it can be determined whether it includes a translucent portion e.g. the rear window and or the front window . The determination of whether a first order object includes a translucent portion can be performed be the object classification identification module and or the one or more processors . In one or more arrangements one or more high resolution images of at least a portion of the first order object e.g. the first other vehicle and or the third other vehicle can be captured such as by the camera system . In such case determining whether the first order object includes a translucent portion can in one or more arrangements include analyzing the captured one or more high resolution images. Any suitable analysis can be performed. As an example the analysis can include comparing portions of the images to known images or information e.g. in the predefined object profiles or by one or more characteristics.

Responsive to determining that the first order object includes a translucent portion the translucent portion can be analyzed to determine whether a second order object is located within the translucent portion. The analysis of the translucent portion can be performed by the one or more processors the object classification identification module and or the object analysis module . In one or more arrangements the analysis can include extracting the translucent portion from whole images of at least a portion of the first order object.

Any suitable analysis of the translucent portion can be performed. For example in one or more arrangements analyzing the translucent portion can further include determining whether an object located within the translucent portion matches a predefined filtered object profile . Responsive to determining that one or more objects located in the translucent portion matches a predefined filtered object profile the matching object s can be ignored or otherwise filtered and thus effectively ignored.

Thus with respect to the first other vehicle one or more structures appearing in the translucent portion e.g. window and or window can be identified and ignored or filtered. For instance referring to one or more head rests and or a rearview mirror be located within the translucent portion. The one or more head rests and or the rearview mirror can be identified by comparing images of such objects to the predefined filtered object profiles . If the object in the translucent portion matches one of the predefined filtered object profiles the object can be ignored. Additional or alternative objects located within the translucent portion such as human heads can be ignored or filtered.

The analysis of the translucent portion can include determining whether an object located within the translucent portion is a second order object. In the arrangement shown in an example of a second order object can be the second other vehicle which is located within the translucent portion e.g. window and or window . In one or more arrangements the determination of whether an object located within the translucent portion is a second order object can be a direct determination by identifying the object such as by the object classification identification module and or the object analysis module . In one or more arrangements the determination of whether an object located within the translucent portion is a second order object can be an indirect determination by assuming that any objects remaining after other objects are ignored or filtered are second order objects.

Responsive to determining that a second order object is located within the translucent portion the second order object can be analyzed. The analysis of the second order object can be performed by one or more elements of the vehicle including for example the one or more processors and or the object analysis module .

The second order object can be analyzed in any suitable manner. If a special part of the second order object is identified in the translucent portion such as by the object classification identification module the then the motion of this part can be tracked. Such tracking may be achieved by analyzing visual data of the translucent portion over a period of time. For example a plurality of individual video frames of the translucent portion can be analyzed so that the motion of the second order object relative to the vehicle can be determined or predicted. As an example when the second order object is another vehicle e.g. the second other vehicle the special part of the second order object can be for example a license plate. The motion of the license plate can be tracked across a plurality of video frames or images of the translucent portion over a period of time so that the motion of the second other vehicle relative to the vehicle can be determined.

As another example the special part can be the taillights of a second order vehicle e.g. the taillights of the second other vehicle . In some instances the taillights may be illuminated because of low light conditions such as in the evening or night. Alternatively or in addition the taillights may be illuminated because of activation of the brakes of the second other vehicle . When illuminated the taillights are visible and can be detected within the translucent portion. The motion of the taillights can be tracked across a plurality of video frames of the translucent portion so that the motion of the second other vehicle relative to the vehicle can be determined.

If a special part of a second order vehicle cannot be identified in the translucent region then substantially the entire translucent portion can be analyzed over time. For example the translucent portion can be analyzed to assess how the appearance of the translucent portion changes over time. In such case the motion of a second order object can be inferred such as by analyzing motion of various image patches of the second order vehicle. Without limitation such analysis methods can include artificial or computational intelligence elements e.g. neural network with deep learning fuzzy logic or other machine learning algorithms.

It should be noted that arrangements are not limited to analyzing second order objects located in front of the vehicle . Indeed arrangements described herein can be used to analyze second order objects in other locations relative to the vehicle . For instance arrangements described herein can be used to analyze second order objects spaced from the vehicle in the lateral direction . As an example arrangements described herein can be used to analyze the fourth other vehicle . Further arrangements described herein can be used to analyze second order objects that are located behind the vehicle in the longitudinal direction .

It will be appreciated that some second order objects may be relatively close to the vehicle . Such second order objects can be readily tracked and or analyzed by the sensor system the object classification identification module and or the object analysis module . However some second order objects may be located beyond the range of the sensor system . In such instances it may be more difficult to track and or analyze such second order objects. In these and other instances additional and or alternative ways of tracking or analyzing the second order objects can be implemented.

In one or more arrangements the object analysis module can be configured to analyze a second order object using a light distance estimate approach. The object analysis module can use the light energy emitted from one or more headlights or one or more taillights of a second order vehicle. The object analysis module can analyze visual data captured by the camera system . A light source of a vehicle can be detected with appropriate sensors. The detected light source can be projected on the map in a suitable coordinate system e.g. the vehicle s local coordinate system or a global coordinate system . The light source can be tracked over time in any suitable manner. For instance the light source can be tracked over time by the object analysis module by for example tracking successive positions of the light source with respect to the coordinate system. It should be noted that in some instances an object may appear to be moving consistent with the motion of a vehicle but has only a single light source. For example a detected object may be a motorcycle or a vehicle with an inoperable headlight or taillight. In such case the tracking of the single light can be performed as described herein.

When a second order object has a pair of light sources e.g. two taillights or two headlights the detected light sources may appear as a single light source if sufficiently far away. However at some distances the vehicle can resolve the light sources as being separate individual light sources thereby representing a vehicle. There is an unknown distance Dy between the vehicle and the observed pair of lights. Also there is an unknown separation distance L between the lights of the second order vehicle. The separation distance L can be generally approximated.

In one or more arrangements the distance Dy can be calculated as follows Dy L Cb y b . In this equation b is a baseline separation distance of a pair of vehicle lights. The baseline separation distance b can be the distance between the left and the right lights of the vehicle . Alternatively the baseline separation distance b can be an average across any group of vehicles. In the equation Cb is a function of xb and Db. xb is the pixel separation of a pair of lights on an image corresponding to the baseline separation distance b . The image can be an image taken at the resolution of one or more cameras of the camera system . Db is the distance to the baseline pair of lights corresponding to xb which depends on the camera resolution and or accuracy of measuring the pixel separation among other things. The function Cb is usually bilinear i.e. Cb xb Db. In one or more arrangements it can be implemented as a lookup table which can be stored in the one or more data stores . In the equation y is the pixel separation for the observed pair of lights based on an image of the pair of lights captured by the camera system .

The unknown separation distance L can be approximated based on known characteristics and or features of the road infrastructure. In one or more arrangements the baseline separation distance b can be set as 1.8 meters as an approximation of an average automobile on the road. A range of variations of the baseline separation distance b can be permitted such as from 1.5 meters for small automobiles and 3 meters for trucks. As the separation distance L becomes closer to the assumed baseline separation distance b the risk of significantly overestimating the distance Dy can be reduced thereby biasing the produced estimates of the distance Dy toward underestimating the distance Dy on average. For safety and or other reasons it may be beneficial to estimate the distance as being smaller than it actually is.

When the camera system includes cameras with greater resolution the distance Dy can be determined by observing changes of the area of the brightest spot of the observed light over time in a plurality of captured images of the lights. For a typical on road automotive vehicle the brightest spot of the light may be concentrated in an area of approximately 0.1 square meter approximately 1 square foot . The information can be used as a gauge of the distance Dy .

Alternatively or in addition the distance Dy can be determined by using a brightness distance approach. Such an approach can provide for additional and independent means to estimate the distance Dy . Such an approach can use a known relationship between the perceived brightness of the light sources and the distance to the light sources. For instance it is known that the brightness of a light source is directly proportional to the luminosity of the light. It is also known that the brightness of a light source is inversely proportional to the square of the distance.

Vehicles can have a variety of headlights with different light output characteristics including different luminosities. As such the exact luminosity of a particular light source may not be known. However in one or more arrangements an average luminosity can be assumed. The average luminosity can be based on any group of vehicle light sources. For instance the average luminosity can be based on any combination of lights e.g. old lights new lights and or high intensity lights etc. . Due to the vehicle pitching on non flat roads and or other factors affecting the observation angle of the camera system the perceived brightness even for assumed average fixed luminosity may vary significantly. To account for such variances a temporal filter can be applied over a sequence of images showing the same pair of lights.

Mathematically the determination of the distance Dy using the known relationship between the perceived brightness of the light sources and the distance to the light sources can be expressed as Dy 2 Fy Bb Db 2 By Fb . In this expression Fy is detected luminosity of the light sources of the second order vehicle based on one or more imaged captured by the camera system . By is detected brightness of the light sources of the second order vehicle based on one or more imaged captured by the camera system . Fb is the baseline luminosity. The baseline luminosity Fb can be established using any suitable combination of lights. In one or more arrangements baseline luminosity Fb can be established by using a combination of high intensity vehicle light sources and non high intensity vehicle light sources.

In some instances brightness of the lights sources in images acquired by the camera system may not actually vary much with distance e.g. due to gain control and or blooming suppression artifacts . However the area of the brightest spot would still vary with the distance at least with cameras having high resolution. In one or more arrangements the illuminated area suitably calculated can be used as a substitute for brightness. In one or more arrangements an ordinary resolution camera can be used for the brightness distance estimation approach and a high resolution camera can be used for the separation length distance approach.

Detection of the light sources of second order objects and their location can be measured from an image by determining the pixels with maximum brightness or by finding a center of gravity COG of the light source image indicating the place where the light source is located. The area of the light source image and the registered level of pixel brightness used for the COG calculation can also be used for estimating the brightness of the light source By . The color of the light source image could also be used for detection confirmation.

Inferring the distance Dy via both observation of the light pair and the perceived brightness distance relationship can help to increase robustness of the system. For example some second order vehicles encountered on the road might have one of the lights in the pair that is broken or is too dim to be well detected by the camera system at a distance. In some instances the second order object vehicle could actually be a motorcycle.

The vehicle can include a learning system which can be a part of the object analysis module or other module or element of the vehicle . The learning system can be pre calibrated to predict expected distance Dy by learning from observed changes of By i the light separation y if the light source image for the pair of lights is observed over a sequence of known distances Dy i. By is a function of bright pixel intensities and the total area as well as viewing angle which itself is a function of the terrain. These factors can be inputs to the learning system. The learning system can output the distance Dy .

The viewing angle on flat roads is small and varies negligibly with distance beyond approximately 100 meters. However the viewing viewing illuminator angle can change significantly on a hilly or other non flat road. Indeed the changes can be substantial such that the vehicle s pair of lights may disappear momentarily from the view of the camera system . If information data relating to the terrain of the road ahead is poor or unavailable then the learning system may not use the viewing angle as input.

The learning system can also be adapted based on real time observations. For example the changes of the light brightness from the known distance when the second order vehicle is well within the range of the sensor system can be applied to the previously captured images. As a result a sequence of values By i Dy i can be obtained which can be used for further learning.

Based on the analysis of the second order objects the movement behavior and or other things about the second order objects can be determined. For instance it can be determined whether the second order objects are moving away from the vehicle moving toward the vehicle braking swerving and or violating a traffic rule just to name a few possibilities. Based on the analysis of the second order object one or more actions can be taken.

For instance information relating to the second order object can be presented to a vehicle occupant. As an example a vehicle occupant can be alerted to the presence of a second order object or a behavior of a second order object. In one or more arrangements it can be determined whether a second order object is exhibiting a predefined behavior. Responsive to determining that the second order object is exhibiting a predefined behavior an alert warning or notification can be presented to a vehicle occupant. The alert warning or notification can be provided in any suitable form including for example visual and or audial.

In one or more arrangements the vehicle can be an autonomous vehicle. In such case a driving maneuver for the vehicle can be determined at least partially based on information about the second order object. The vehicle can be caused to implement the determined driving maneuver. Such implementation of the determined driving maneuver can be performed automatically or in response to a user input.

As an example the second order vehicle second other vehicle in may begin braking as determined by activated brake lights. The first order vehicle first other vehicle in may not be slowing down as determined by the non activated brake lights. Alternatively the tracked portions of the second order object in a region of interest may be growing in size. Thus the vehicle can determine that the second order object is moving toward the vehicle . In such instances the vehicle can determine a suitable driving maneuver. In one or more arrangements the driving maneuver can be activating the braking system . Alternatively the driving maneuver can be changing travel lanes to avoid collision if the second order object is braking too rapidly.

In one or more arrangements the processor and or the driving module can cause the vehicle to implement the driving maneuver. The processor and or the driving module can be operatively connected to one or more of the vehicle systems to implement the driving maneuver. In one or more arrangements the processor and or the driving module can be operable to control the one or more actuators which can control one or more of the vehicle systems or portions thereof to implement the driving maneuver.

It should be noted that in one or more arrangements a vehicle occupant e.g. a driver and or other passenger can be prompted to provide permission to implement the driving maneuver. The vehicle occupant can be prompted in any suitable manner. For instance a prompt can be presented on a display within the vehicle . Alternatively or in addition the prompt can be audibly output to the driver or other passenger over one or more audial channels. Other forms of prompting can be used as an alternative or in addition to the above described forms of prompting. Responsive to receiving an input corresponding to a vehicle occupant s approval to implement the driving maneuver the vehicle can be caused to implement the driving maneuver.

It will be appreciated that arrangements described herein can provide numerous benefits including one or more of the benefits mentioned herein. For example arrangements described herein can improve the performance of an autonomous vehicle. Arrangements described herein can reduce risk and improve decision making for autonomous operational modes of a vehicle. Arrangements described herein can provide information to human drivers to make more informed driving decisions. Arrangements described herein can provide a degree of comfort and confidence to vehicle occupants. Further arrangements described herein can potentially facilitate the safe operation of the vehicle.

The flowcharts and block diagrams in the figures illustrate the architecture functionality and operation of possible implementations of systems methods and computer program products according to various embodiments. In this regard each block in the flowcharts or block diagrams may represent a module segment or portion of code which comprises one or more executable instructions for implementing the specified logical function s . It should also be noted that in some alternative implementations the functions noted in the block may occur out of the order noted in the figures. For example two blocks shown in succession may in fact be executed substantially concurrently or the blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order depending upon the functionality involved.

The systems components and or processes described above can be realized in hardware or a combination of hardware and software and can be realized in a centralized fashion in one processing system or in a distributed fashion where different elements are spread across several interconnected processing systems. Any kind of processing system or other apparatus adapted for carrying out the methods described herein is suited. A typical combination of hardware and software can be a processing system with computer usable program code that when being loaded and executed controls the processing system such that it carries out the methods described herein. The systems components and or processes also can be embedded in a computer readable storage such as a computer program product or other data programs storage device readable by a machine tangibly embodying a program of instructions executable by the machine to perform methods and processes described herein. These elements also can be embedded in an application product which comprises all the features enabling the implementation of the methods described herein and which when loaded in a processing system is able to carry out these methods.

Furthermore arrangements described herein may take the form of a computer program product embodied in one or more computer readable media having computer readable program code embodied e.g. stored thereon. Any combination of one or more computer readable media may be utilized. The computer readable medium may be a computer readable signal medium or a computer readable storage medium. The phrase computer readable storage medium means a non transitory storage medium. A computer readable storage medium may be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus or device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. More specific examples a non exhaustive list of the computer readable storage medium would include the following an electrical connection having one or more wires a portable computer diskette a hard disk drive HDD a solid state drive SSD a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory an optical fiber a portable compact disc read only memory CD ROM a digital versatile disc DVD an optical storage device a magnetic storage device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. In the context of this document a computer readable storage medium may be any tangible medium that can contain or store a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device.

Program code embodied on a computer readable medium may be transmitted using any appropriate medium including but not limited to wireless wireline optical fiber cable RF etc. or any suitable combination of the foregoing. Computer program code for carrying out operations for aspects of the present arrangements may be written in any combination of one or more programming languages including an object oriented programming language such as Java Smalltalk C or the like and conventional procedural programming languages such as the C programming language or similar programming languages. The program code may execute entirely on the user s computer partly on the user s computer as a stand alone software package partly on the user s computer and partly on a remote computer or entirely on the remote computer or server. In the latter scenario the remote computer may be connected to the user s computer through any type of network including a local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN or the connection may be made to an external computer for example through the Internet using an Internet Service Provider .

The terms a and an as used herein are defined as one or more than one. The term plurality as used herein is defined as two or more than two. The term another as used herein is defined as at least a second or more. The terms including and or having as used herein are defined as comprising i.e. open language . The phrase at least one of . . . and . . . as used herein refers to and encompasses any and all possible combinations of one or more of the associated listed items. As an example the phrase at least one of A B and C includes A only B only C only or any combination thereof e.g. AB AC BC or ABC .

Aspects herein can be embodied in other forms without departing from the spirit or essential attributes thereof. Accordingly reference should be made to the following claims rather than to the foregoing specification as indicating the scope of the invention.

