---

title: N-substituted indenoisoquinolines and syntheses thereof
abstract: N-Substituted indenoisoquinoline compounds, and pharmaceutical formulations of N-substituted indenoisoquinoline compounds are described. Also described are processes for preparing N-substituted indenoisoquinoline compounds. Also described are methods for treating cancer in mammals using the described N-substituted indenoisoquinoline compounds or pharmaceutical formulations thereof.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09399660&OS=09399660&RS=09399660
owner: NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH (NIH)
number: 09399660
owner_city: Bethesda
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150428
---
This application is a continuation in part application of U.S. application Ser. No. 14 339 766 filed Jul. 24 2014 now U.S. Pat. No. 9 217 010 which is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 13 317 153 filed Oct. 11 2011 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 829 022 which is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 12 093 398 filed May 12 2008 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 053 443 which is a U.S. national stage application under 35 U.S.C. 371 b of International Application No. PCT US2006 043933 filed Nov. 13 2006 which claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. 119 e of U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60 736 471 filed Nov. 14 2005 and U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60 808 699 filed May 26 2006 and this application also claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 985 748 filed Apr. 29 2014 the disclosures of which are hereby incorporated herein by reference.

This invention was made with government support under CA089566 and CA009634 awarded by the National Institutes of Health. The government has certain rights in the invention.

The invention described herein pertains to N substituted indenoisoquinoline compounds. The invention described herein also pertains to methods for treating cancer in mammals using indenoisoquinoline compounds.

The control and cure of cancer represents one of our most challenging health problems. The treatment of cancer can be approached by several modes of therapy including surgery radiation chemotherapy or a combination of any of these treatments. Chemotherapy continues to be an indispensable therapy for inoperable or metastatic forms of the disease. Thus the discovery of compounds specifically targeting cancer cells or the cellular mechanisms involved in the proliferation of cancer cells can provide significant advancement the eradication or control of cancer.

The selection of compounds having effective anticancer activity is complicated by the still limited knowledge of cancer cell biology and biochemistry. Therefore development of new effective anti cancer agents remains heavily dependent on screening of new compounds for cytotoxic activity. Antineoplastic drug candidates exhibit enhanced cytotoxicity against cancer cells relative to normal cells. Methods of screening for anticancer activity have focused on several targets 1 the ability of a compound to inhibit tumor growth and or progression in animal studies 2 inhibition of cell growth proliferation in cell lines of cancerous origin and 3 inhibition of intracellular processes necessary for the growth or propagation of cancer cells.

The mouse L1210 leukemia cell line was initially the preferred model system used for screening compounds for anti cancer activity. However the P388 murine leukemia system was found to be more sensitive and predictive than L1210 leukemia system it has been used as a primary screen during the past decade. Systematic screening for compounds exhibiting toxicity to these two cell lines has resulted in the isolation of a large number of active natural products. However the anticancer activities of these compounds were predominantly for leukemia lymphoma and a few rare tumors. Low clinical efficacy or the lack of clinical efficacy of known chemotherapeutics against slower growing solid tumors is a serious concern.

Considering the diversity of cancer in terms of cell type morphology growth rate and other cellular characteristics the U.S. National Cancer Institute NCI has developed a disease oriented approach to anticancer activity screening M. R. Boyd in Principle of Practice of Oncology J. T. Devita S. Hellman S. A. Rosenberg Eds. Vol. 3 PPO Update Nov. 10 1989 . This in vitro prescreening system is based on the measurement of anticancer cytotoxicity against human cancer cell line panels consisting of approximately 60 cell lines of major human cancers including leukemia and slower growing tumor cells such as lung colon breast skin kidney etc. and is referred hereinafter as COMPARE screening. An important advantage of the new in vitro screening panels is the opportunity to facilitate identification of compounds that are selectively more cytotoxic to cells of certain types of cancers thus increasing the ability to select compounds for further study with respect to specific diseases.

Anticancer agents are known to act through a variety of mechanisms to destroy or inhibit the proliferation of cancer cells. For example some agents are antimetabolites which act as false substrates in the biochemical processes of cancer cells. One compound which has this mechanism of action is methotrexate an analog of folic acid which functions in part by binding to dihydrofolate reductase thereby preventing the formation of guanine and adenine from the folic acid precursor molecule. Thus methotrexate inhibits the ability of cancer cells to construct DNA by inhibiting the proper metabolism of folic acid.

Other anticancer agents act by alkylating DNA strands thereby producing defects in the normal double helical structure of the DNA molecule. This alkylation may cause the formation of breaks and inappropriate links between for within strands of DNA. Such disruption of the DNA structure if not repaired by intracellular repair mechanisms impairs the cell s ability to replicate its DNA. Examples of alkylating anticancer agents are cyclophosphamide and chlorambucil.

Some anticancer agents target the intracellular mechanisms involved in replication of the DNA strand itself. Replication of a cell s genetic material requires a means to pull the DNA double helix apart into two strands. This separation is typically accomplished by the enzyme topoisomerase I. Disruption of the function of this enzyme results in DNA strand breaks in cells that are dividing thereby causing the death of the dividing cell. Because cancer cells grow and reproduce at a much faster rate than normal cells they are more vulnerable to topoisomerase I inhibition than are normal cells. Thus agents that inhibit topoisomerase I are known to be potent anticancer agents. The drug camptothecin was shown to be an inhibitor of topoisomerase I and a potent anticancer agent. However it has been observed that camptothecin may produce toxic side effects. In addition the effectiveness of camptothecin is hampered by both the instability of the molecule itself resulting in lactone ring opening and the reversible nature of the inhibition allowing impacted cells to recover. Therefore the search for potent inhibitors of topoisomerase I continues.

Described herein are N substituted indenoisoquinoline compounds and more specifically substituted 11H indeno 1 2 c isoquinoline compounds including dimers of such substituted 11H indeno 1 2 c isoquinoline compounds formed with a divalent linker. The compounds described herein may be useful for treating cancer. Also described herein are pharmaceutical compositions of such compounds processes for preparing N substituted indenoisoquinoline compounds and methods for treating cancer by administering therapeutically effective amounts of such substituted indenoisoquinoline compounds alone or as pharmaceutical compositions.

Ris selected from haloalkyl halocycloalkyl hydroxy alkoxy cycloalkoxy haloalkoxy halocycloalkoxy optionally substituted heteroaryl aryloxy heteroaryloxy and heteroarylamino acyloxy haloacyloxy amino alkyl and dialkylamino trialkylammonium hydroxyalkylamino bis hydroxyalkyl amino hydroxyalkylaminoalkylamino heteroarylalkylaminoalkylamino acylamino hydroxylamino alkoxylamino acyloxylamino cycloalkyl heterocyclyl heterocyclylamino alkynyl acyl urethanyl cyano nitro azido thio alkylsulfonyl sulfonic acid and derivatives thereof carboxylic acid and derivatives thereof and phosphoric acid and derivatives thereof and

Rand Reach independently represent hydrogen or one or more optional and independently selected monovalent and divalent substituents.

In one aspect Rrepresents 1 4 substituents each of which is independently selected from the group consisting of halo hydroxy optionally substituted alkyl optionally substituted alkoxy cyano nitro optionally substituted alkylthio optionally substituted alkylsulfonyl carboxylic acid and derivatives thereof and sulfonic acid and derivatives thereof or Rrepresents 2 4 substituents where 2 of said substituents are adjacent substituents and are taken together with the attached carbons to form an optionally substituted heterocycle and where the remaining substituents in cases where Rrepresents 3 4 substituents are each independently selected from the group consisting of halo hydroxy optionally substituted alkyl optionally substituted alkoxy cyano nitro optionally substituted alkylthio optionally substituted alkylsulfonyl carboxylic acid and derivatives thereof and sulfonic acid and derivatives thereof.

In another aspect Rrepresents 1 4 substituents each of which is independently selected from the group consisting of halo hydroxy optionally substituted alkyl optionally substituted alkoxy cyano nitro optionally substituted alkylthio optionally substituted alkylsulfonyl carboxylic acid and derivatives thereof and sulfonic acid and derivatives thereof or Rrepresents 2 4 substituents where 2 of said substituents are adjacent substituents and are taken together with the attached carbons to form an optionally substituted heterocycle and where the remaining substituents in cases where Rrepresents 3 4 substituents are each independently selected from the group consisting of halo hydroxy optionally substituted alkyl optionally substituted alkoxy cyano nitro optionally substituted alkylthio optionally substituted alkylsulfonyl carboxylic acid and derivatives thereof and sulfonic acid and derivatives thereof.

In another illustrative embodiment m is the integer 0. In another embodiment m is an integer from 1 to about 6 and Ris selected from halo haloalkyl halocycloalkyl alkoxy cycloalkoxy haloalkoxy halocycloalkoxy optionally substituted heteroaryl aryloxy heteroaryloxy and heteroarylamino acyloxy haloacyloxy amino dialkylamino trialkylammonium bis hydroxyalkyl amino hydroxyalkylaminoalkylamino heteroarylalkylaminoalkylamino acylamino hydroxylamino alkoxylamino acyloxylamino cycloalkyl heterocyclyl heterocyclylamino alkynyl acyl urethanyl cyano nitro azido thio alkylsulfonyl sulfonic acid and derivatives thereof carboxylic acid and derivatives thereof and phosphoric acid and derivatives thereof.

In another illustrative embodiment Rincludes a water soluble or hydrophilic functional group. In one aspect Rincludes an optionally substituted aminoalkyl. In another aspect Rincludes an alkyl group substituted with optionally substituted heteroaryl heteroaryloxy or heteroarylamino amino dialkylamino trialkylammonium bis hydroxyalkyl amino hydroxyalkylaminoalkylamino heteroarylalkylaminoalkylamino acylamino hydroxylamino alkoxylamino acyloxylamino heterocyclyl heterocyclylamino nitro or azido.

In another illustrative embodiment Rrepresents 1 4 substituents each of which is independently selected from the group consisting of halo hydroxy optionally substituted alkyl optionally substituted alkoxy cyano nitro optionally substituted alkylthio optionally substituted alkylsulfonyl carboxylic acid and derivatives thereof and sulfonic acid and derivatives thereof.

In another illustrative embodiment Rrepresents 2 4 substituents where 2 of said substituents are adjacent substituents and are taken together with the attached carbons to form an optionally substituted heterocycle and where any remaining substituents are each independently selected from the group consisting of halo hydroxy optionally substituted alkyl optionally substituted alkoxy cyano nitro optionally substituted alkylthio optionally substituted alkylsulfonyl carboxylic acid and derivatives thereof and sulfonic acid and derivatives thereof.

In another illustrative embodiment Rrepresents 1 4 substituents each of which is independently selected from the group consisting of halo hydroxy optionally substituted alkyl optionally substituted alkoxy cyano nitro optionally substituted alkylthio optionally substituted alkylsulfonyl carboxylic acid and derivatives thereof and sulfonic acid and derivatives thereof.

In another illustrative embodiment Rrepresents 2 4 substituents where 2 of said substituents are adjacent substituents and are taken together with the attached carbons to form an optionally substituted heterocycle and where any remaining substituents are each independently selected from the group consisting of halo hydroxy optionally substituted alkyl optionally substituted alkoxy cyano nitro optionally substituted alkylthio optionally substituted alkylsulfonyl carboxylic acid and derivatives thereof and sulfonic acid and derivatives thereof.

In another illustrative embodiment m is an integer from 0 to about 6 and Ris selected from the group consisting of haloalkyl halocycloalkyl hydroxy alkoxy cycloalkoxy haloalkoxy halocycloalkoxy optionally substituted heteroaryl aryloxy heteroaryloxy and heteroarylamino acyloxy haloacyloxy amino alkyl and dialkylamino trialkylammonium bis hydroxyalkyl amino hydroxyalkylaminoalkylamino heteroarylalkylaminoalkylamino acylamino hydroxylamino alkoxylamino acyloxylamino cycloalkyl heterocyclyl heterocyclylamino alkynyl acyl urethanyl cyano nitro azido thio alkylsulfonyl sulfonic acid and derivatives thereof carboxylic acid and derivatives thereof and phosphonic acid and derivatives thereof provided that when Ris hydroxy alkylamino or hydroxyalkylamino m is the integer 0.

R R R and R each independently represent 4 substituents all of which are independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen halo hydroxy optionally substituted alkyl optionally substituted alkoxy cyano nitro optionally substituted alkylthio optionally substituted alkylsulfonyl carboxylic acid and derivatives thereof and sulfonic acid and derivatives thereof or where 2 of said substituents are adjacent substituents and are taken together with the attached carbons to form an optionally substituted heterocycle and

X is a divalent linker comprising one or more divalent radicals selected from CRR NR and O where Rand Rare independently selected in each occurrence from hydrogen alkyl and acyl providing that the divalent linker does not include O O . In one aspect if present each divalent NR and O is separated by at least one divalent radical CRR . In another aspect each Rand Ris hydrogen.

In another illustrative embodiment X is a group having the general structure CH CH NR CH NR CH where n is 0 or 1 x and y are integers independently ranging from 1 to about 4 z is an integer ranging from 1 to about 4 p is 0 or 1 q is 0 or an integer ranging from 1 to about 2 and where Rand Rare independently selected in each instance from hydrogen methyl t butyloxycarbonyl benzyloxycarbonyl and fluorenylmethoxycabonyl or Rand Rand any adjacent Rtogether with the attached nitrogens form a heterocycle.

In another illustrative embodiment indenoisoquinoline compounds of formulae I and II described herein are useful for treating cancer or tumors. In one aspect compounds described herein exhibit the activity of stabilizing DNA topoisomerase 1 cleavage complexes through intercalation at the DNA cleavage site resulting in inhibition of the religation reaction. See for example Kohlhagen G Paull K. Cushman M. Nagafuji P. Pommier Y. Protein Linked DNA Strand Breaks Induced by NSC 314622 a Novel Noncamptothecin Topoisomerase I Poison 1998 54 50 58 Pommier Y. Pourquier P. Fan Y. Strumberg D. Mechanism of Action of Eukaryotic DNA Topoisomerases and Drugs Targeted to the Enzyme 1998 1400 83 105 Staler B. L. Hjerrild K. Feese M. D. Behnke C. A. Burgin Jr. A. B. Stewart L. The Mechanism of Topoisomerase I Poisoning by a Camptothecin 2002 99 15387 15392 the disclosures of each of which are incorporated herein by reference. As inhibitors of the DNA religation reaction occurring after DNA cleavage by topoisomerase 1 compounds described herein may be classified as top1 poisons and may exhibit biological and pharmacological activity similar to that observed with camptothecins. In another aspect indenoisoquinoline compounds of formulae I and II described herein may be efficacious against various types of human cancers. In another aspect indenoisoquinoline compounds of formulae I and II described herein may be chemically more stable than camptothecin. In yet another aspect indenoisoquinoline compounds of formulae I and II described herein may have unique DNA binding site selectivities relative to camptothecin.

In another illustrative embodiment methods for treating human cancers are described. In one aspect of the methods described herein the cancers are attributable to abnormally fast cell growth reproduction and or proliferation. In another aspect the cancers treatable by compounds of formulae I and II are responsive to enzyme inhibition such as inhibition of topoisomerase 1.

In another illustrative embodiment processes for preparing indenoisoquinoline compounds of formula I and II are described. In one embodiment the processes include preparing an intermediate benz d indeno 1 2 b pyran 5 11 dione of the formula III

In another illustrative embodiment processes are described herein for preparing compounds of formulae I and II comprising the steps of i reacting an R substituted hydroxy phthalide compound and an R substituted phthalide compound of respective formulae

In another illustrative embodiment processes are described herein for preparing compounds of formulae I and II comprising the steps of reacting a benz d indeno 1 2 b pyran 5 11 dione of the formula

In another illustrative embodiment processes are described herein for preparing compounds of formulae I and II comprising the steps of reacting an optionally substituted homophthalic anhydride and an optionally substituted Schiff base of respective formulae

In another illustrative embodiment processes are described herein for preparing compounds of formulae I and II comprising the steps of reacting a benz d indeno 1 2 b pyran 5 11 dione of the formula

It is to be understood that each of the aspects of the various illustrative embodiments described herein may be modified and or combined as additional illustrative embodiments. For example illustrative embodiments of the compounds of formula II may include those aspects wherein an unsubstituted symmetrical bisindenoisoquinoline is present as reflected in the use of a benz d indeno 1 2 b pyran 5 11 dione where Rand Rare each hydrogen. Further illustrative embodiments of the compounds of formula II may include those aspects wherein a substituted symmetrical bisindenoisoquinoline is present as reflected in the use of a benz d indeno 1 2 b pyran 5 11 dione where for example Ris 2 3 dimethoxy and Ris hydrogen or where for example Ris 3 nitro and Ris hydrogen. In addition illustrative embodiments of the compounds of formula II may include those aspects wherein a substituted unsymmetrical bisindenoisoquinoline is present as reflected in the use of a mixture of two differentially substituted benz d indeno 1 2 b pyran 5 11 diones to prepare a dimer such as

Ris selected from the group consisting of haloalkyl halocycloalkyl hydroxy alkoxy cycloalkoxy haloalkoxy halocycloalkoxy optionally substituted heteroaryl aryloxy heteroaryloxy and heteroarylamino acyloxy haloacyloxy amino alkyl and dialkylamino trialkylammonium hydroxyalkylamino bis hydroxyalkyl amino hydroxyalkylaminoalkylamino heteroarylalkylaminoalkylamino acylamino hydroxylamino alkoxylamino acyloxylamino cycloalkyl heterocyclyl heterocyclylamino alkynyl acyl urethanyl cyano nitro azido thio alkylsulfonyl sulfonic acid and derivatives thereof carboxylic acid and derivatives thereof and phosphonic acid and derivatives thereof provided that when Ris hydroxy alkylamino or hydroxyalkylamino m is the integer 0 

Rrepresents 1 4 substituents each of which is independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen halo hydroxy optionally substituted alkyl optionally substituted alkoxy cyano nitro optionally substituted alkylthio optionally substituted alkylsulfonyl carboxylic acid and derivatives thereof and sulfonic acid and derivatives thereof or Rrepresents 2 4 substituents where 2 of said substituents are adjacent substituents and are taken together with the attached carbons to form an optionally substituted heterocycle and where any remaining substituents are each independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen halo hydroxy optionally substituted alkyl optionally substituted alkoxy cyano nitro optionally substituted alkylthio optionally substituted alkylsulfonyl carboxylic acid and derivatives thereof and sulfonic acid and derivatives thereof and

Rrepresents 1 4 substituents each of which is independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen halo hydroxy optionally substituted alkyl optionally substituted alkoxy cyano nitro optionally substituted alkylthio optionally substituted alkylsulfonyl carboxylic acid and derivatives thereof and sulfonic acid and derivatives thereof or Rrepresents 2 4 substituents where 2 of said substituents are adjacent substituents and are taken together with the attached carbons to form an optionally substituted heterocycle and where any remaining substituents are each independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen halo hydroxy optionally substituted alkyl optionally substituted alkoxy cyano nitro optionally substituted alkylthio optionally substituted alkylsulfonyl carboxylic acid and derivatives thereof and sulfonic acid and derivatives thereof.

In another illustrated embodiment Ris selected from the group consisting of amino alkyl and dialkylamino trialkylammonium hydroxyalkylamino bis hydroxyalkyl amino hydroxyalkylaminoalkylamino and azido.

In another illustrated embodiment Ris selected from the group consisting of amino alkyl and dialkylamino trialkylammonium bis hydroxyalkyl amino hydroxyalkylaminoalkylamino and azido.

In another illustrated embodiment Ris selected from the group consisting of heteroaryl heteroaryloxy and heteroarylamino heteroarylalkylaminoalkylamino heterocyclyl heterocyclylamino each of which is optionally substituted.

In another illustrated embodiment Ris optionally substituted heterocyclyl or optionally substituted heterocyclylamino. In one embodiment Ris morpholin 4 yl. In another illustrated embodiment Ris optionally substituted heteroaryl or optionally substituted heteroarylamino. In one embodiment Ris imidazole 1 yl.

In another illustrated embodiment Rincludes an alkylenedioxy group. In another illustrated embodiment Rincludes one or more optionally substituted alkoxy.

In another illustrated embodiment Rincludes one or more alkoxy optionally substituted with hydroxy alkoxy alkylsulfonyl alkenyl alkynyl halo nitro cyano azido amino alkylamino dialkylamino hydroxyalkylamino bis hydroxyalkyl amino cycloalkyl aryl hetereocyclyl heteroaryl alkylcarbonyl alkoxycarbonyl or hydrazinecarbonyl.

In another illustrated embodiment Rincludes one or more alkoxy optionally substituted with alkenyl alkynyl halo nitro cyano azido amino alkylamino dialkylamino hydroxyalkylamino bis hydroxyalkyl amino cycloalkyl aryl hetereocyclyl heteroaryl alkylcarbonyl alkoxycarbonyl or hydrazinecarbonyl. In one embodiment the alkoxy is optionally substituted with amino alkylamino dialkylamino hydroxyalkylamino or bis hydroxyalkyl amino. In one embodiment the alkoxy is optionally substituted with amino alkylamino or dialkylamino. In another embodiment the alkoxy is optionally substituted with heterocyclyl. In certain embodiment the heterocyclyl is morpholino 4 methylpiperazinyl piperidinyl or pyrrodinyl. In another embodiment the alkoxy is optionally substituted with alkylcarbonyl alkoxycarbonyl or hydrazinecarbonyl.

In another illustrated embodiment Rincludes one methoxy and one alkoxy substituted with alkenyl alkynyl halo nitro cyano azido amino alkylamino dialkylamino cycloalkyl aryl hetereocyclyl heteroaryl alkylcarbonyl alkoxycarbonyl or hydrazinecarbonyl. In one embodiment Rincludes one optionally substituted alkoxy and one hydroxy.

In another illustrated embodiment a pharmaceutical composition comprising a compound as described herein or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt hydrate or solvate thereof and one or more pharmaceutically acceptable carriers diluents and excipients.

m is an integer from 0 to about 6 and Ris selected from haloalkyl halocycloalkyl hydroxy alkoxy cycloalkoxy haloalkoxy halocycloalkoxy optionally substituted heteroaryl aryloxy heteroaryloxy and heteroarylamino acyloxy haloacyloxy amino alkyl and dialkylamino trialkylammonium hydroxyalkylamino bis hydroxyalkyl amino hydroxyalkylaminoalkylamino heteroarylalkylaminoalkylamino acylamino hydroxylamino alkoxylamino acyloxylamino cycloalkyl heterocyclyl heterocyclylamino alkynyl acyl urethanyl cyano nitro azido thio alkylsulfonyl sulfonic acid and derivatives thereof carboxylic acid and derivatives thereof and phosphoric acid and derivatives thereof 

Rrepresents 1 4 substituents each of which is independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen halo hydroxy optionally substituted alkyl optionally substituted alkoxy cyano nitro optionally substituted alkylthio optionally substituted alkylsulfonyl carboxylic acid and derivatives thereof and sulfonic acid and derivatives thereof or Rrepresents 2 4 substituents where 2 of said substituents are adjacent substituents and are taken together with the attached carbons to form an optionally substituted heterocycle and where the remaining substituents in cases where Rrepresents 3 4 substituents are each independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen halo hydroxy optionally substituted alkyl optionally substituted alkoxy cyano nitro optionally substituted alkylthio optionally substituted alkylsulfonyl carboxylic acid and derivatives thereof and sulfonic acid and derivatives thereof and

Rrepresents 1 4 substituents each of which is independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen halo hydroxy optionally substituted alkyl optionally substituted alkoxy cyano nitro optionally substituted alkylthio optionally substituted alkylsulfonyl carboxylic acid and derivatives thereof and sulfonic acid and derivatives thereof or Rrepresents 2 4 substituents where 2 of said substituents are adjacent substituents and are taken together with the attached carbons to form an optionally substituted heterocycle and where the remaining substituents in cases where Rrepresents 3 4 substituents are each independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen halo hydroxy optionally substituted alkyl optionally substituted alkoxy cyano nitro optionally substituted alkylthio optionally substituted alkylsulfonyl carboxylic acid and derivatives thereof and sulfonic acid and derivatives thereof.

As used herein the term alkyl refers to a saturated monovalent chain of carbon atoms which may be optionally branched. It is understood that in embodiments that include alkyl illustrative variations of those embodiments include lower alkyl such as C C C Calkyl methyl ethyl propyl 3 methylpentyl and the like.

As used herein the term cycloalkyl refers to a monovalent chain of carbon atoms a portion of which forms a ring. It is understood that in embodiments that include cycloalkyl illustrative variations of those embodiments include lower cycloalkyl such as C C C Ccycloalkyl cyclopropyl cyclohexyl 3 ethylcyclopentyl and the like.

As used herein the term alkenyl refers to an unsaturated monovalent chain of carbon atoms including at least one double bond which may be optionally branched. It is understood that in embodiments that include alkenyl illustrative variations of those embodiments include lower alkenyl such as C C C Calkenyl.

As used herein the term cycloalkenyl refers to an unsaturated monovalent chain of carbon atoms a portion of which forms a ring. It is understood that in embodiments that include cycloalkenyl illustrative variations of those embodiments include lower cycloalkenyl such as C C C Ccycloalkenyl.

As used herein the term alkylene refers to a saturated bivalent chain of carbon atoms which may be optionally branched. It is understood that in embodiments that include alkylene illustrative variations of those embodiments include lower alkylene such as C C alkylene methylene ethylene propylene 3 methylpentylene and the like.

As used herein the term heterocycle refers to a monovalent chain of carbon and heteroatoms wherein the heteroatoms are selected from nitrogen oxygen and sulfur a portion of which including at least one heteroatom form a ring such as aziridine pyrrolidine oxazolidine 3 methoxypyrrolidine 3 methylpiperazine and the like.

It is to be understood that each of alkyl cycloalkyl alkenyl cycloalkenyl alkylene and heterocyclyl may be optionally substituted with independently selected groups such as alkyl haloalkyl hydroxyalkyl aminoalkyl carboxylic acid and derivatives thereof including esters amides and nitriles hydroxy alkoxy acyloxy amino alkyl and dialkylamino acylamino thio and the like and combinations thereof.

As used herein the term optionally substituted aryl refers to an aromatic mono or polycyclic ring of carbon atoms such as phenyl naphthyl and the like which may be optionally substituted with one or more independently selected substituents such as halo hydroxy amino alkyl or dialkylamino alkoxy alkylsulfonyl cyano nitro and the like.

As used herein the term optionally substituted heteroaryl refers to an aromatic mono or polycyclic ring of carbon atoms and at least one heteroatom selected from nitrogen oxygen and sulfur such as pyridinyl pyrimidinyl indolyl benzoxazolyl and the like which may be optionally substituted with one or more independently selected substituents such as halo hydroxy amino alkyl or dialkylamino alkoxy alkylsulfonyl cyano nitro and the like.

As used herein the term acyl refers to hydrogen alkyl cycloalkyl alkenyl cycloalkenyl heterocyclyl optionally substituted aryl optionally substituted arylalkyl optionally substituted heteroaryl and optionally substituted heteroarylalkyl attached as a substituent through a carbonyl C O group such as formyl acetyl pivalolyl benzoyl phenacetyl and the like.

As used herein alkoxy refers to an O alkyl group. Example alkoxy groups include methoxy ethoxy propoxy e.g. n propoxy and isopropoxy t butoxy and the like.

As used herein the terms alkylamino dialkylamino dialkylammonium and trialkyammonium refer to amino substituted with alkyl groups where each alkyl group is independently selected and illustratively includes dimethylamino methylethylamino diisopropylethylammonium benzyldimethylammonium benzyldiisopropylammonium and the like.

As used herein the terms protected hydroxy and protected amino refer to hydroxy and amino groups respectively that are protected with a protecting group. It is to be understood that such protecting groups are conventional and routinely selected to allow a synthetic or chemical transformation to be performed in a manner that the hydroxy group or amino group does not interfere with or is not changed by the synthetic or chemical transformation performed. Illustrative but not exclusive examples of such protecting groups may be found in Greene Wuts Protective Groups in Organic Synthesis 2d Ed. John Wiley Sons New York 1991 the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference. Further illustrative of such protecting groups are those particularly suited for protecting phenols and catechols and analogs and derivatives thereof.

In one illustrative aspect of the compounds of formula I Ris dialkylamino including dimethylamino azido poly hydroxyalkyl amino hydroxyalkylaminoalkylamino polyhydroxyalkylaminoalkylamino hydroxyalkyl alkylamino heteroaryl or a combination thereof. In another aspect Ris selected from the formulae

In another aspect of the compounds of formula I Ris alkyl substituted with amino dialkylamino trialkylammonium poly hydroxyalkyl amino hydroxyalkylaminoalkylamino polyhydroxy alkylaminoalkylamino heteroaryl azido hydroxyalkyl alkylamino and combinations thereof. In another aspect Ris substituted C Calkyl. In another aspect Ris substituted Calkyl.

In another illustrative embodiment of the compounds of formula I Rrepresents one or more substituents selected from optionally substituted alkoxy. In one aspect Rrepresents at least two adjacent substituents taken together to form alkylenedioxy. In another embodiment Rrepresents one or more substituents selected from halo hydroxy amino alkyl and dialkylamino nitroso nitro hydroxylamino alkoxylamino and cyano. In another embodiment of the compounds of formula I Rrepresents one or more substituents selected from optionally substituted alkoxy. In one aspect Rrepresents at least two adjacent substituents taken together to form alkylenedioxy. In another embodiment Rrepresents one or more substituents selected from halo amino alkyl and dialkylamino nitroso nitro and cyano.

In another illustrative embodiment of the compounds of formula I Ris alkyl substituted with amino dialkylamino trialkylammonium poly hydroxyalkyl amino hydroxyalkylaminoalkylamino polyhydroxy alkylaminoalkylamino heteroaryl azido hydroxyalkyl alkylamino and combinations thereof. In another aspect Ris substituted C Calkyl. In another aspect Ris substituted Calkyl. In another aspect Rrepresents one or more substituents selected from optionally substituted alkoxy. In another aspect Rrepresents at least two adjacent substituents taken together to form alkylenedioxy. In another aspect Rrepresents one or more substituents selected from halo hydroxy amino alkyl and dialkylamino nitroso nitro hydroxylamino alkoxylamino and cyano. In another aspect Rrepresents one or more substituents selected from optionally substituted alkoxy. In another aspect Rrepresents at least two adjacent substituents taken together to form alkylenedioxy. In another aspect Rrepresents one or more substituents selected from halo amino alkyl and dialkylamino nitroso nitro and cyano.

In another illustrative embodiment indenobenzopyran compounds of formula III are described where Rand Rare as defined in the compounds of formulae I and II. These compounds may be used to prepare compounds of formulae I and II according to the processes described herein. In one embodiment compounds 4a 4s are described as shown in the following table. Compounds 4a 4s were prepared by the processes described herein comprising the steps of preparing and cyclizing the adduct of an optionally substituted 2 carboxybenzaldehyde and an optionally substituted phthalide as described herein.

In another illustrative embodiment novel indenoisoquinoline compounds 5a 5z 5aa 5az and 5ba 5bs are described. These compounds were prepared by the processes described herein comprising the steps of preparing the corresponding benz d indeno 1 2 b pyran 5 11 dione and converting the lactone into the corresponding lactam with a suitable primary amine or by condensing an optionally substituted homophthalic anhydride and an optionally substituted Schiff base as described herein.

It is appreciated that compounds 5a 5z 5aa 5az and 5ba 5bs may be chemically more stable than camptothecin owing at least in part to the absence of a lactone ring such as is found in camptothecin. See a Jaxel C. Kohn K. W. Wani M. C. Pommier. Y. Structure Activity Study of the Actions of Camptothecin Derivatives on Mammalian Topoisomerase 1 Evidence for a Specific Receptor Site and a Relation to Antitumor Activity 1989 49 1465 1469. b Minanri H. Beijnen J. H. Verweij J. Ratain M. J. Limited Sampling Model for the Area under the Concentration Time Curve of Total Topotecan 1996 2 43.46. c Danks M. K. Pawlik C. A. Whipple D. O. Wolverton J. S. Intermittant Exposure of Medulloblastoma Cells to Topotecan Produces Growth Inhibition equivalent to Continuous Exposure 1997 3 1731 1738. d Haas. N. B. LaCreta F. P. Walczak J. Hudes G. R. Brennan J. M. Ozols R. F. O Dwyer P. J. Phasel Pharmaco kinetic Study of Topotecan by 24 Hour Continuous infusion Weekly 1994 54 1220 1226 the disclosures of which are incorporated herein by reference. It is further appreciated that compounds 5a 5z 5aa 5az and 5ba 5bs may be efficacious against various types of human cancers. It is also appreciated that compounds 5a 5z 5aa 5az and 5ba 5bs may have unique DNA binding site selectivities relative to camptothecin.

In another illustrative embodiment processes for preparing unsubstituted benz d indeno 1 2 b pyran 5 11 dione 4d are described. In one aspect indenobenzopyran 4d may be prepared as shown in Scheme 1 wherein condensation of 2 carboxybenzaldehyde 1d and phthalide 2d in methanol ethyl acetate with sodium methoxide step a generates an intermediate 3d which can be isolated and subsequently cyclized in acidified refluxing benzene step b to provide indenobenzopyran 4d. See Shapiro S. L. Geiger K. Youlus J. Freedman L. Indandiones A Modified Dieckman Reaction 1961 26 3580 3582. In another aspect indenobenzopyran 4d was prepared by a novel one pot two step method without isolation of intermediate 3d which resulted in an improved yield 86 compared to the previously reported synthesis yield 31 . See Palior. M. Worther H. Meller A. Some reactions of 2 aryl 1 3indandiones 1961 92 1037 1047.

In another illustrative embodiment substituted benz d indeno 1 2 b pyran 5 11 diones 4 are prepared as shown in Scheme 2. Treatment of optionally substituted phthalide 2 with N bromosuccinimide in carbon tetrachloride benzene under reflux step a affords brominated phthalide 2e. Treating brominated phthalide 2e with aqueous acidic conditions under reflux step b affords hydroxylated phthalide 2f. Condensation of hydroxylated phthalide 2f with optionally substituted phthalide 2 in a solution comprising methanol at room temperature and an organic base such as sodium methoxide step c followed by reflux under acidic conditions step d affords optionally substituted indenobenzopyrans 4 where Rand Rare as defined herein.

In another illustrative embodiment a novel one pot two step process for preparing substituted benz d indeno 1 2 b pyran 5 11 diones 4 is described. As shown in Scheme 3 condensation of optionally substituted 2 carboxybenzaldehydes 1 and optionally substituted phthalides 2 in methanol ethyl acetate with sodium methoxide step a generates intermediates 3 which are cyclized without isolation in acidified refluxing benzene or via dicyclohexylcarbodiimide and dimethylaminopyridine step b to provide optionally substituted indenobenzopyrans 4 where Rand Rare as defined herein.

In another illustrative embodiment indenoisoquinoline compounds of formula I are prepared as outlined in Scheme 4. Treatment of the indenobenzopyrans 4 in chloroform with a primary amine of the formula R CH NH step a where Rand m are as defined herein results in the formation of the corresponding indenoisoquinolines 5 where R R m and Rare as defined herein.

It is appreciated that although chloroform at room temperature will suffice as the solvent for most primary amines when a primary amine such as a mono Boc protected diamine for example is used to form the lactam from a benz d indeno 1 2 b pyran 5 11 dione 4 chloroform at reflux may be used as the solvent. It is further appreciated that an indenoisoquinoline compound 5 for which the integer m is not 0 and wherein Ris halo azido or cyano for example may be further elaborated through displacement of the halo azido or cyano functionality respectively with a variety of nucleophiles. Illustratively treatment of indenobenzopyran 4 in chloroform with 3 bromo propylamine step a i.e. a primary amine where Rand m in the formula R CH NHare bromo and 3 respectively results in the formation of the corresponding N 3 bromo 1 propyl indenoisoquinoline 5 which compound can be treated with sodium azide or sodium cyanide in DMSO or with primary and secondary amines such as ethanolamine imidazole N N dimethylamine morpholine piperazine and the like in refluxing dioxane with concomitant displacement of bromide ion. An N 3 cyano 1 propyl indenoisoquinoline 5 may be converted to a variety of carboxylic acid derivatives including for example esters amides acid chlorides and the like.

In another illustrative embodiment indenoisoquinoline compounds of formula I are prepared as outlined in Scheme 5. Condensation of optionally substituted homophthalic anhydrides 6 with optionally substituted. Schiff bases 7 where R R m and Rare as defined herein generates carboxylic acids 8 step a for which the indicated cis stereochemical relationship is based on the observed coupling constant of 6 Hz for the two methine protons. Carboxylic acids 9 with a trans stereochemical relationship would be expected to display a coupling constant on the order of 10 12 Hz for the two methine protons. Subjecting carboxylic acids 8 to oxidative Friedel Crafts ring closure with thionyl chloride and aluminum chloride step b provides indenoisoquinolines 5 where R R m and Rare as defined herein.

In another illustrative embodiment indenoisoquinoline compounds 10a 10o are described where the various aspects and embodiments of m and Rare as described herein and Rand Rare as indicated in the following table 

R R R and R independently represent 4 substituents all of which are independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen halo hydroxy optionally substituted alkyl optionally substituted alkoxy cyano nitro optionally substituted alkylthio optionally substituted alkylsulfonyl carboxylic acid and derivatives thereof and sulfonic acid and derivatives thereof or where 2 of said substituents are adjacent substituents and are taken together with the attached carbons to form an optionally substituted heterocycle and

X is a divalent linker comprising one or more divalent radicals selected from CRR NR and O where Rand Rare independently selected in each occurrence from hydrogen alkyl and acyl providing that the divalent linker does not include O O . In one aspect if present each divalent NR and O is separated by at least one divalent radical CRR . In another aspect each Rand Ris hydrogen.

In another illustrative embodiment X is a group having the general structure CH CH NR CH NR CH where n is 0 or 1 x and y are integers independently ranging from 1 to about 4 z is an integer ranging from 1 to about 4 p is 0 or 1 q is 0 or an integer ranging from 1 to about 2 and where Rand Rare independently selected in each instance from hydrogen methyl t butyloxycarbonyl benzyloxycarbonyl and fluorenylmethoxycabonyl or Rand Rand any adjacent Rtogether with the attached nitrogens form a heterocycle.

In one illustrative embodiment of the compounds of formula II Rand R independently represent one or more substituents selected from optionally substituted alkoxy. In one aspect Rand R independently represent at least two adjacent substituents taken together to form alkylenedioxy. In another embodiment Rand R independently represent one or more substituents selected from halo hydroxy amino alkyl and dialkylamino nitroso nitro hydroxylamino alkoxylamino and cyano. In another embodiment of the compounds of formula II Rand R independently represent one or more substituents selected from optionally substituted alkoxy. In one aspect Rand R independently represent at least two adjacent substituents taken together to form alkylenedioxy. In another embodiment Rand R independently represent one or more substituents selected from halo amino alkyl and dialkylamino nitroso nitro and cyano.

In another illustrative embodiment of the compounds of formula II n p and q are 0 and z is 2 3 or 4. In another aspect n and p are 1 z is 1 and q is 2. In one aspect Rand R independently represent one or more substituents selected from optionally substituted alkoxy. In another aspect Rand R independently represent at least two adjacent substituents taken together to form alkylenedioxy. In another aspect Rand R independently represent one or more substituents selected from halo hydroxy amino alkyl and dialkylamino nitroso nitro hydroxylamino alkoxylamino and cyano. In another aspect Rand R independently represent one or more substituents selected from optionally substituted alkoxy. In another aspect Rand R independently represent at least two adjacent substituents taken together to form alkylenedioxy. In another aspect Rand R independently represent one or more substituents selected from halo amino alkyl and dialkylamino nitroso nitro and cyano.

In another illustrative embodiment bisindenoisoquinoline compounds 12 17 are described. These compounds were prepared by the processes described herein comprising the steps of preparing and aminolyzing with a suitable polyamine a benz d indeno 1 2 b pyran 5 11 dione 4 as described herein.

It is appreciated that compounds 12 17 may be chemically more stable than camptothecin owing at least in part to the absence of the lactone ring. See a Jaxel C. Kohn K. W. Wani M. C. Pommier. Y. Structure Activity Study of the Actions of Camptothecin Derivatives on Mammalian Topoisomerase 1 Evidence for a Specific Receptor Site and a Relation to Antitumor Activity 1989 49 1465 1469. b Minanri H. Beijnen J. H. Verweij J. Ratain M. J. Limited Sampling Model for the Area under the Concentration Time Curve of Total Topotecan 1996 2 43.46. c Danks M. K. Pawlik C. A. Whipple D O. Wolverton J. S. Intermittant Exposure of Medulloblastoma Cells to Topotecan Produces Growth Inhibition equivalent to Continuous Exposure 1997 3 1731 1738. d Haas. N. B. LaCreta F. P. Walczak J. Hudes G. R. Brennan J. M. Ozols R. F. O Dwyer P. J. Phasel Pharmaco kinetic Study of Topotecan by 24 Hour Continuous Infusion Weekly 1994 54 1220 1226 the disclosures of which are incorporated herein by reference. It is further appreciated that compounds 12 17 may be efficacious against various types of human cancers. It is also appreciated that compounds 12 17 may have unique DNA binding site selectivities relative to camptothecin.

In another illustrative embodiment symmetrical bisindenoisoquinoline compounds of formula II are prepared as outlined in Scheme 6. Treatment of the indenobenzopyrans 4 in refluxing chloroform with a polyamine of the formula NH CH CH NR CH NR CH NH11 step a where R R n x y z p and q are as defined herein results in the formation of the corresponding bisindenoisoquinolines 12 where R R R R and X are as defined herein. If necessary or desired bisindenoisoquinolines 12 are converted to their respective t butyloxycarbonyl Boc derivatives 13 upon treatment with Boc anhydride and triethylamine step b then purified and treated with trifluoroacetic acid or hydrochloric acid step c to produce the corresponding TFA or HCl salt 14.

In another illustrative embodiment unsymmetrical bisindenoisoquinolines of formula II are prepared as outlined in Scheme 7. Treatment of the indenobenzopyrans 4 with a polyamine of the formula NH CH CH NR CH NR CH NH11 step a where R n x y z p and q are as defined herein results in the formation of the corresponding polyaminoindenoisoquinoline A where R R and X are as defined herein. Subsequent condensation of polyaminoindenoisoquinoline A with indenobenzopyran 4d step b results in the formation of the corresponding unsymmetrical bisindenoisoquinolines 15. If necessary or desired unsymmetrical bisindenoisoquinolines 15 are converted to their respective t butyloxycarbonyl Boc derivatives 16 upon treatment with Boc anhydride and triethylamine step c then purified and treated with trifluoroacetic acid or hydrochloric acid step d to produce the corresponding TFA or HCl salt 17.

It is appreciated that bisindenoisoquinolines 12 and 15 may be converted to other acyl derivatives including urethane derivatives such as for example benzyloxycarbonyl or fluorenylmethoxycarbonyl derivatives then purified and deprotected via hydrogenolysis or treatment with piperidine respectively.

In another illustrative embodiment novel indenoisoquinoline compounds 18 31 are described. The synthesis of indenoisoquinoline 18 is performed according to a reported method with some modifications Cinelli et al. 2012 55 10844 10862 . Amine compound 22 which has a three carbon side chain is first prepared using the synthetic route shown in Scheme 8. Treatment of 18 with 1 3 dibromopropane in DMF in the presence of sodium hydride provides the alkylation product 19 accompanied by smaller amounts of the allyl compound 20 as a side product. Displacement of the bromide of compound 19 by sodium azide yields intermediate 21 which is converted to amine 22 by Staudinger reduction.

Subsequently as shown in Scheme 9 the dimethylamino analogue 23 is synthesized by treatment of compound 19 with dimethylamine in the presence of sodium iodide. Similarly compound 19 reacts with ethylamine in refluxing dioxane to afford compound 24. Treatment of compound 19 with morpholine and sodium iodide gives compound 25. Compound 26 is prepared by treatment of bromide compound 19 with N methylpiperazine in the presence of sodium iodide. It is assumed that the C 2 terminal amine appendages would be protonated at physiological pH and that the ammonium cations would form a salt bridge with the Asp533 carboxylate anion of topoisomerase I.

As illustrated in Scheme 10 a different synthetic route is employed for the synthesis of compounds 27 and 28. The 2 hydroxylated indenoisoquinoline 18 reacts with 1 3 chloropropyl piperidine hydrochloride in the presence of potassium carbonate to provide compound 27 directly. Similarly compound 28 is made by treatment of the indenoisoquinoline 18 with 1 3 chloropropyl pyrrolidine hydrochloride in the presence of potassium carbonate Scheme 10 .

As shown in Scheme 11 the ester intermediate 29 is prepared by treatment of compound 18 with methyl bromoacetate in the presence of sodium hydride. Treatment of compound 29 with hydrazine does not afford the expected compound 30 but unexpectedly yields the reduced 11 hydroxyl compound 31 instead Scheme 11 .

The indenoisoquinoline and bisindenoisoquinoline compounds described herein may also form hydrates and solvates. Hydrates may be formed spontaneously upon exposure to ambient conditions where the humidity is sufficient to hydrate the compounds. In addition hydrates may be formed with more specificity by exposing the compounds described herein to particular humidity conditions. Hydrates may also be formed with by dissolving or suspending the compounds in media containing a predetermined amount of water and evaporating lyophilizing or otherwise concentrating such solutions in a manner to give a hydrate form of the compounds described herein. Solvates of the indenoisoquinolinium and bisindenoisoquinolinium compounds described herein may also be formed by dissolving or suspending the compounds in a solvent that is capable of forming a complex with the compound and subsequently evaporating or otherwise concentrating such solutions in a manner to give a solvate form of the compounds described herein. Solvents capable of forming solvates may include alcohols such as ethanol butanol and the like. It is appreciated that both hydrates and solvates of the compounds described herein may have a predetermined stoichiometry. Such stoichiometry may be evaluated by conventional analytical techniques including X ray diffraction melting analysis and the like.

The indenoisoquinoline and bisindenoisoquinoline compounds described herein may form pharmaceutically acceptable salts. As used herein the term pharmaceutically acceptable salts refers to derivatives of the disclosed indenoisoquinoline and bisindenoisoquinoline compounds wherein the parent compound is modified by converting an existing acid or base moiety to its salt form. Examples of pharmaceutically acceptable salts of indenoisoquinoline and bisindenoisoquinoline compounds described herein include but are not limited to mineral or organic acid salts of basic residues such as amines alkali or organic salts of acidic residues such as carboxylic acids and the like. The pharmaceutically acceptable salts include the non toxic salts or the quaternary ammonium salts of the parent compound formed for example from non toxic inorganic or organic acids. For example such non toxic salts include those derived from inorganic acids such as hydrochloric acid or any inorganic acids known in the art or organic acids such as tartaric acid lactic acid or any organic acid known in the art. The pharmaceutically acceptable salts of indenoisoquinoline and bisindenoisoquinoline compounds described herein can be synthesized from the parent compound which contains a basic or acidic moiety by conventional chemical methods. Generally such salts can be prepared by reacting the free acid or base forms of these compounds with a stoichiometric amount of the appropriate base or acid in water or in an organic solvent or in a mixture of the two generally nonaqueous media like ether ethyl acetate ethanol isopropanol or acetonitrile are preferred.

The phrase pharmaceutically acceptable is employed herein to refer to those compounds materials compositions and or dosage forms which are within the scope of sound medical judgment suitable for use in contact with the tissues of human beings and animals without excessive toxicity irritation allergic response or other problem or complication commensurate with a reasonable benefit risk ratio.

The compounds described herein show antineoplastic activity using the COMPARE screening methodology demonstrating that they are antineoplastic agents useful in treating human cancers. The compounds described herein are inhibitors of topoisomerase I top1 and in particular may be inhibitors of the top1 catalyzed DNA religation reaction. Such inhibition may account for the antiproliferative activity against cancer cells that compounds described herein show in vitro. The compounds described herein may form ternary complexes consisting of the compound DNA and the top1 enzyme. Without being bound by theory it is believed that the compounds described herein may be operating as top1 poisons which inhibit the top1 enzyme catalyzed DNA religation reaction. It is further appreciated that the compounds described herein may have longer in vitro and in vivo activity than conventional treatments if the formation of the ternary complexes is not reversible or rapidly reversible.

Therefore some of the growth inhibition demonstrated through COMPARE testing may occur through that mechanism of action inhibition of topoisomerase I. However it is appreciated that compounds showing surprisingly potent cell growth inhibition even though their inhibitory effects on topoisomerase I are relatively small in comparison to other agents tested may cause inhibition of cell growth at least in part through another mechanism of action in addition to or instead of inhibition of topoisomerase I.

Also described herein are pharmaceutical compositions and formulations comprising a therapeutically effective amount of one or more indenoisoquinoline or bisindenoisoquinoline compounds for treating a patient having cancer. It is appreciated that mixtures of certain indenoisoquinoline or bisindenoisoquinoline compounds may be administered. Such pharmaceutical compositions may also include one or more diluents carriers and or excipients. As used herein an effective amount of the indenoisoquinoline or bisindenoisoquinoline compound is defined as the amount of the compound which upon administration to a patient inhibits growth of cancer cells kills malignant cells reduces the volume or size of the tumors and or eliminates the tumor entirely in the treated patient. It is to be understood that treated patients include humans and other mammals.

As used herein the term therapeutically effective amount refers to the amount to be administered to a patient and may be based on body surface area patient weight and or patient condition. In addition it is appreciated that there is an interrelationship of dosages determined for humans and those dosages determined for animals including test animals illustratively based on milligrams per meter squared of body surface as described by Freireich E. J. et al. 1966 50 4 219 the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference. Body surface area may be approximately determined from patient height and weight see e.g. Scientific Tables Geigy Pharmaceuticals Ardley N.Y. pages 537 538 1970 . A therapeutically effective amount of the indenoisoquinoline and bisindenoisoquinoline compounds described herein may be defined as any amount useful for inhibiting the growth of or killing a population of malignant cells or cancer cells such as may be found in a patient in need of relief from such cancer or malignancy. Such effective amounts range from about 5 mg kg to about 500 mg kg from about 5 mg kg to about 250 mg kg and or from about 5 mg kg to about 150 mg kg of indenoisoquinoline compounds per patient body weight. In some embodiments a dose in a human is approximately 10 100 mg per meter of surface area squared mg m for example from about 10 mg mto about 75 mg m or from about 10 mg mto about 50 mg m or from about 10 mg mto about 25 mg m or from 25 mg mto about 100 mg m or from 25 mg mto about 75 mg m or from 25 mg mto about 50 mg m or from 50 mg mto about 100 mg m or from 50 mg mto about 75 mg m. It is appreciated that effective doses may also vary depending on the route of administration optional excipient usage and the possibility of co usage of the indenoisoquinoline compounds with other conventional and non conventional therapeutic treatments including other anti tumor agents radiation therapy and the like.

The indenoisoquinoline and bisindenoisoquinoline compounds may be administered in a variety of pharmaceutical formulations including conventional pharmaceutical formulations. The indenoisoquinoline compounds and formulated variants thereof may also be delivered by a variety of administration routes including conventional delivery routes. In one embodiment the indenoisoquinoline compounds and formulated variants thereof are delivered via a parenteral route including subcutaneously intraperitoneally intramuscularly and intravenously. Examples of parenteral dosage forms and formulations include aqueous solutions of the indenoisoquinoline compounds in isotonic saline 5 glucose or other conventional pharmaceutically acceptable liquid carrier. In one aspect the one or more indenoisoquinoline compounds are dissolved in a saline solution containing 5 dimethyl sulfoxide and 10 Cremphor EL Sigma Chemical Company . Additional solubilizing agents such as cyclodextrins which can form specific more soluble complexes with the indenoisoquinoline compounds described herein or other conventional solubilizing agents can be included as pharmaceutical excipients for delivery of the compounds.

In another embodiment the indenoisoquinoline compounds bisindenoisoquinoline compounds and formulated variants thereof are delivered via oral administration such as in a capsule a gel seal a tablet and the like. Capsules may comprise any conventional pharmaceutically acceptable material including gelatin and or cellulose derivatives. Tablets may be formulated by conventional procedures including by compressing mixtures of the indenoisoquinoline compounds solid carriers lubricants disintegrants and other conventional ingredients for solid dosage forms such as starches sugars bentonite and the like. The compounds described herein may also be administered in a form of a hard shell tablet or capsule containing for example lactose or mannitol as a binder and conventional fillers and tableting agents. Solid dosage forms described herein and useful for delivering the indenoisoquinoline compounds also include sustained release formulations such as tablets caplets pills capsules and the like that include an enteric coating that may delay the release of the indenoisoquinoline compounds until the formulation has passed into the intestinal tract.

The following exemplary embodiments are included herein to further illustrate the invention. These exemplary embodiments are not intended and should not be interpreted to limit the scope of the invention in any way. It is to be understood that numerous variations of the exemplary embodiments are contemplated herein.

Melting points were determined in capillary tubes and are uncorrected. Infrared spectra were obtained using CHClas the solvent unless otherwise specified. Except where noted 300 MHz H NMR spectra were obtained using CDClas solvent and the solvent peak as internal standard. Mass spectra were determined by electrospray mass spectrometry. Microanalyses were performed at the Purdue University Microanalysis Laboratory. Reactions were generally monitored by analytical thin layer chromatography using Baker flex silica gel IB2 F plates or flexible sheets visualized with short wavelength UV light. Silica gel flash chromatography was performed using 230 400 mesh silica gel.

A representative procedure for the one pot synthesis of an indenobenzopyran 4 is described herein for benz d indeno 1 2 b pyran 5 11 dione 4d. It is understood that other indenobenzopyrans including compounds 4a 4s may be prepared according to this representative example. In addition a representative procedure for the synthesis of an indenoisoquinoline 5 from indenobenzopyran 4 and a primary amine is described herein for 5 6 dihydro 6 2 morpholin 4 yl 1 ethyl 3 nitro 5 11 dioxo 11H indeno 1 2 c isoquinoline 5i. It is understood that other indenoisoquinolines including compounds 5a 5k may be prepared from this representative example. A representative procedure for the synthesis of an indenoisoquinoline 5 by aminolysis of 6 3 bromo 1 propyl 5 6 dihydro 2 3 dimethoxy 8 9 methylenedioxy 5 11 dioxo 11H indeno 1 2 c isoquinoline 5y is also described herein by which procedure indenoisoquinolines 5l and 5o 5x were prepared. In addition a representative procedure for the synthesis of an indenoisoquinoline 5 from indenobenzopyran 4d and a mono Boc protected primary amine is described herein by which procedure mono Boc protected indenoisoquinolines 5aa 5ac and 5af 5ak were prepared for generation of the corresponding HCl salts 5al 5an and 5aq 5ay. Syntheses of indenoisoquinolines 5aw 5az from indenobenzopyran 4d and a series of aminopyridine derivatives are also described herein. In addition a representative procedure is described herein for the synthesis of an indenoisoquinoline 5 by i condensing substituted homophthalic anhydrides 6 with Schiff bases 7 and ii subjecting the resulting carboxylic acids 8 to oxidative Friedel Crafts ring closure by which procedure indenoisoquinolines 5bb 5bc were prepared. It is understood that other indenoisoquinolines including compounds 5ba 5bd and 5be may be prepared according to this representative example. Indenoisoquinolines 5bf 5bs were prepared from N haloalkylindenoisoquinolines 5bb 5bd and 5be by the aminolysis procedure described herein. Also described herein are syntheses of bisindenoisoquinolines 12 17 from indenobenzopyrans 4 and a variety of polyamines 11.

Benz d indeno 1 2 b pyran 5 11 dione 4d . Sodium methoxide 40 mL of a 4 M methanolic solution was added to a solution of 2 carboxybenzaldehyde 1d 1.000 g 7.455 mmol and phthalide 2d 1.119 g 7.455 mmol in ethyl acetate 20 mL . The solution was heated at 65 C. for 18 h concentrated and acidified with coned HCl. The resulting mixture was diluted with benzene 125 mL TsOH 100 mg was added and the solution was heated for 7 h at reflux in a flask affixed with a Dean Stark trap. The solution was cooled to room temperature concentrated diluted with CHCl 150 mL and washed with sat NaHCO 3 50 mL and sat NaCl 50 mL . The organic layer was dried over sodium sulfate and concentrated to provide indenobenzopyran 4d as an orange solid 1.583 g 86 mp 258 259 C. published mp 257 C. . H NMR CDCl 8.40 d J 8.56 Hz 1H 8.32 d J 7.93 Hz 1H 7.84 7.79 m 1H 7.61 7.39 m 5H . Additional details regarding the synthesis of compound 8 are found in Pailer et al. 92 1037 47 1961 the synthetic disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference.

5 6 Dihydro 6 2 morpholin 4 yl 1 ethyl 3 nitro 5 11 dioxo 11H indeno 1 2 c isoquinoline 5i . 4 2 Aminoethyl morpholine 0.133 g 1.023 mmol was added to a solution of 3 nitrobenz d indeno 1 2 b pyran 5 11 dione 4c 0.100 g 0.341 mmol in CHC1 30 mL . The solution was allowed to stir at room temperature for 16 h diluted with CHC1 110 mL and washed with HO 3 30 mL and sat NaCl 30 mL . The organic layer was dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated to provide indenoisoquinoline 9i as a crude solid. The solid was purified by flash column chromatography SiO CHC1to 7 MeOH CHC1 to provide indenoisoquinoline 5i as an orange solid 0.138 g 100 mp 257 259 C. IR film 1670 1613 1505 1330 and 1078 cm H NMR CDCl 9.20 s I H 8.89 d J Hz I H 8.52 d J Hz 1H 7.80 7.72 m 2H 7.54 m 2H 4.73 m 2H 3.72 bs 4H 2.83 m 2H 2.62 bs 4H ESIMS m z rel intensity 406 MH 100 . Anal. Calcd for CHNO C 65.18 H 4.72 N 10.37. Found C 65.27 H 4.74 N 10.20.

General Procedure for the Synthesis of Indenoisoquinolines 5l and 5o 5x from 6 3 bromo 1 propyl 5 6 dihydro 2 3 dimethoxy 8 9 methylenedioxy 5 11 dioxo 11H indeno 1 2 c isoquinoline 5y . A mixture of 6 3 bromo 1 propyl 5 6 dihydro 2 3 dimethoxy 8 9 methylenedioxy 5 11 dioxo 11H indeno 1 2 c isoquinoline 5y 0.500 g 1.06 mmol amine 2.11 mmol and anhydrous KCO 0.584 g 4.23 mmol in anhydrous 1 4 dioxane 30 mL was heated at 100 C. for 4 h. The reaction mixture was cooled and then concentrated. The residue was diluted with water 50 mL extracted with CHCl 2 50 mL washed with 1 aq HCl 50 mL water 50 mL sat NaCl 50 mL and dried over NaSO. The crude product was purified by flash column chromatography SiO eluting with a 0 5 gradient of methanol in chloroform to provide the pure indenoisoquinoline.

3 Imidazolyl 1 propyl 5 6 dihydro 2 3 dimethoxy 8 9 methylenedioxy 5 11 dioxo 11H indeno 1 2 c isoquinoline Hydrochloride 5l . The desired analogue was obtained as a dark purple solid 245 mg 63 mp 316 318 C. H NMR CDCl 8.01 s 1H 7.63 s 1H 7.60 s 1H 7.14 s 1H 7.04 s 2H 6.40 s 1H 6.07 s 2H 4.45 t J 5.8 Hz 2H 4.20 t J 6.6 Hz 2H 4.03 s 3H 3.98 s 3H 2.33 t J 6.9 Hz 2H ESIMS m z rel intensity 460 MH 100 . Anal. CHNO.0.2HO C H N. The hydrochloride salt was formed by dissolving the product in chloroform 50 mL and an anhydrous solution of 2 M HCl in diethyl ether 15 mL 30.0 mmol was added at 0 C. The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 6 h and the precipitated product was filtered and washed with chloroform 50 mL methanol 20 mL and dried over POfor 24 h to afford the product as a dark purple solid 170 mg 79 mp 270 272 C. H NMR DMSO d CDOD 2 1 9.07 s 1H 7.78 s 2H 7.60 s 1H 7.42 s 1H 7.14 s 1H 6.96 s 1H 6.13 s 2H 4.41 t J 6.6 Hz 2H 4.36 t J 7.3 Hz 2H 3.86 s 3H 3.82 s 3H 2.35 t J 6.1 Hz 2H ESIMS m z rel intensity 494 MH 100 . Anal. CHNOCl C H N.

6 3 Pyrazolyl 1 propyl 5 6 dihydro 2 3 dimethoxy 8 9 methylenedioxy 5 11 dioxo 11H indeno 1 2 c isoquinoline 5m . 6 3 Bromo 1 propyl 5 6 dihydro 2 3 dimethoxy 8 9 methylenedioxy 5 11 dioxo 11H indeno 1 2 c isoquinoline 5y 0.2113 g 0.448 mmol was added to sodium hydride 86.8 mg of a 60 suspension in mineral oil 2.17 mmol and pyrazole 0.1749 g 2.57 mmol in DMF 50 mL and the reaction mixture was heated at 60 C. for 4 h. The reaction mixture was diluted with water 200 mL and extracted with chloroform 200 mL . The organic layer was washed with water 7 200 mL and concentrated. Benzene was added 2 30 mL and the mixture was concentrated again. The residue was dissolved in chloroform 4 mL and diethyl ether 50 mL was added. The precipitate was washed with diethyl ether 100 mL and a dark red solid 118.5 mg 57.6 was obtained mp 262 264 C. dec . IR film 3462 3104 2918 1693 1640 1557 1495 1488 1430 1394 1308 1284 1251 1205 868 785 769 cm H NMR DMSO d 7.97 s 1H 7.65 d J 1.5 Hz 1H 7.61 s 1H 6.57 s 1H 6.97 s 1H 6.68 s 1H 6.33 s 1H 6.05 s 2H 4.40 m 4H 4.01 s 3H 3.96 s 3H 2.45 m 2H ESIMS m z rel intensity 460 MH 100 . Anal. CHNO.0.75HO C H N.

6 3 2 1 2 4 Triazolyl 1 propyl 5 6 dihydro 2 3 dimethoxy 8 9 methylenedioxy 5 11 dioxo 11H indeno 1 2 c isoquinoline Hydrochloride 5n . 6 3 Bromo 1 propyl 5 6 dihydro 2 3 dimethoxy 8 9 methylenedioxy 5 11 dioxo 11H indeno 1 2 c isoquinoline 5y 0.2538 g 0.538 mmol was added to sodium hydride 124.8 mg of a 60 suspension in mineral oil 3.12 mmol and 1 2 4 triazole 0.2673 g 0.566 mol in DMF 50 mL and the reaction mixture was heated at 60 C. for 3 h. The reaction mixture was diluted with water 200 mL and the precipitate was separated by filtration and washed with water 50 mL . The precipitate was partially dissolved in methanol chloroform 1 1 200 mL . Diethyl ether 100 mL was added and the precipitate was separated by filtration and washed with additional diethyl ether 100 mL to provide the product as the free base. The residue was dissolved in trifluoroacetic acid 2 mL and hydrochloric acid 4 mL of a 2 M solution in diethyl ether was added followed by more diethyl ether 30 mL . The product was collected as a dark red solid 159.5 mg 57 mp 240 C. IR KBr 3429 1694 1647 1553 1500 1487 1431 1394 1311 1254 1207 1032 928 873 800 786 722 617 cm H NMR DMSO d 8.56 s 1H 7.99 s 1H 7.90 s 1H 7.52 s 1H 7.15 s 1H 7.10 s 1H 6.19 s 2H 4.44 4.38 m 4H 3.90 s 3H 3.86 s 3H 2.25 m 2H ESIMS m z rel intensity 461 MH 53 392 MH CNH 100 . High resolution ESIMS m z rel intensity 461.1464 100 MH calculated mass 461.1461 .

6 3 Thiazolylamino 1 propyl 5 6 dihydro 2 3 dimethoxy 8 9 methylenedioxy 5 11 dioxo 11H indeno 1 2 c isoquinoline Dihydrochloride 5o . The product 213 mg 41 was dissolved in chloroform 50 mL and treated with an anhydrous solution of 2 M HCl in diethyl ether 15 mL 30.0 mmol at 0 C. The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 6 h and the precipitated product was filtered and washed with chloroform 50 mL methanol 10 mL and dried over POto provide the desired analogue as a pale purple solid 140 mg 61 mp 298 300 C. dec . H NMR DMSO d 7.82 s 1H 7.44 s 1H 7.38 s 1H 7.04 s 1H 6.18 s 2H 4.42 bs 2H 4.07 bs 2H 3.88 s 3H 3.83 s 3H 3.76 bs 4H 2.07 bs 2H ESIMS m z rel intensity 494 MH 100 . Anal. CHNOSCl.0.6CHCl C H N.

6 3 Piperazinyl 1 propyl 5 6 dihydro 2 3 dimethoxy 8 9 methylenedioxy 5 11 dioxo 11H indeno 1 2 c isoquinoline Dihydrochloride 5p . The product 350 mg 72 was dissolved in chloroform and treated with 2 M HCl in diethyl ether 9.0 mL 18.2 mmol at room temperature to afford the desired analogue as a pale purple solid 280 mg 84 mp 276 278 C. dec . H NMR DO 6.63 bs 1H 6.53 s 1H 6.47 bs 1H 6.18 s 1H 5.91 s 2H 3.90 bs 2H 3.51 s 3H 3.46 bs 11H 3.20 bs 2H 2.02 bs 2H ESIMS m z rel intensity 478 MH 100 . Anal. CHClNO. 2.3HO C H N.

6 3 Morpholin 4 yl 1 propyl 5 6 dihydro 2 3 dimethoxy 8 9 methylenedioxy 5 11 dioxo 11H indeno 1 2 c isoquinoline 5q . The product was isolated as a dark purple solid 0.220 g 72 mp 290 292 C. H NMR CDCl 7.98 s 1H 7.59 s 1H 7.36 s 1H 7.02 s 1H 6.07 s 2H 4.48 t J 7.39 Hz 2H 4.02 s 3H 3.95 s 3H 3.76 bs 4H 2.54 bs 6H 2.01 bs 2H ESIMS m z rel intensity 479 MH 100 . Anal. CHNO.0.2HO C H N.

6 3 Thiomorpholin 4 yl 1 propyl 5 6 dihydro 2 3 dimethoxy 8 9 methylenedioxy 5 11 dioxo 11H indeno 1 2 c isoquinoline 5r . The product was isolated as a dark purple solid 275 mg 53 mp 306 308 C. H NMR CDCl 7.80 s 1H 7.60 s 1H 7.33 s 1H 7.04 s 1H 6.08 s 2H 4.48 t J 6.4 Hz 2H 4.02 s 3H 3.96 s 3H 2.84 2.78 bs 8H 2.67 bs 2H 2.09 bs 2H ESIMS m z rel intensity 495 MH 100 . Anal. CHNOS.0.3HO C H N.

6 3 3 Hydroxypiperidinyl 1 propyl 5 6 dihydro 2 3 dimethoxy 8 9 methylenedioxy 5 11 dioxo 11H indeno 1 2 c isoquinoline Hydrochloride 5s . The product 220 mg 0.45 mmol 70 was treated with 2 M HCl in diethyl ether 4.0 mL 6.69 mmol in chloroform at room temperature to afford the desired analogue as a purple solid 210 mg 89 mp 288 290 C. H NMR DO 6.54 bs 1H 6.41 s 1H 6.29 bs 1H 6.06 s 1H 5.88 s 2H 3.82 bs 2H 3.45 s 3H 3.37 bs 7H 3.15 bs 3H 1.99 bs 4H 1.68 bs 2H ESIMS m z rel intensity 493 MH 100 . Anal. CHClNO.1.4HO C H N.

3 1 Methylpiperazinyl 1 propyl 5 6 dihydro 2 3 dimethoxy 8 9 methylenedioxy 5 11 dioxo 11H indeno 1 2 c isoquinoline 5t . The desired analogue was isolated as a dark purple solid 160 mg 51 mp 254 256 C. H NMR CDCl 7.99 s 1H 7.60 s 1H 7.30 s 1H 7.03 s 1H 6.08 s 2H 4.47 t J 6.0 Hz 2H 4.02 s 3H 3.96 s 3H 2.55 bs 10H 2.30 s 3H 1.99 bs 2H ESIMS m z rel intensity 492 MH 100 . Anal. CHNO.0.5CHCl C H N.

6 3 4 Aminopiperidinyl 1 propyl 5 6 dihydro 2 3 dimethoxy 8 9 methylenedioxy 5 11 dioxo 11H indeno 1 2 c isoquinoline Dihydrochloride 5u . The product 205 mg 66 was dissolved in chloroform 30 mL and treated with 2 M HCl in diethyl ether 5.2 mL 10.40 mmol at room temperature for 8 h. The precipitate was filtered and washed with chloroform 30 mL to provide the desired analogue as a dark purple solid 165 mg 85 mp 262 264 C. dec . H NMR DO 6.62 s 1H 6.50 s 1H 6.44 s 1H 6.17 s 1H 5.92 s 2H 3.92 bs 2H 3.64 bs 2H 3.50 s 4H 3.45 s 3H 3.23 bs 2H 3.08 bs 2H 2.25 m 2H 2.06 bs 2H 1.90 m 2H ESIMS m z rel intensity 492 MH 70 .

6 3 Homopiperazinyl 1 propyl 5 6 dihydro 2 3 dimethoxy 8 9 methylenedioxy 5 11 dioxo 11H indeno 1 2 c isoquinoline Dihydrochloride 5v . The obtained product 390 mg 0.66 mmol 69 was dissolved in chloroform and treated with 2 M HCl in diethyl ether 10.0 mL 19.8 mmol to afford the desired analogue as a purple solid 305 mg 82 mp 264 266 C. dec . H NMR DO 6.71 bs 1H 6.56 bs 2H 6.21 bs 1H 5.92 s 2H 3.98 bs 2H 163 3.57 bs 6H 3.55 s 3H 3.50 s 3H 3.36 3.25 bs 4H 2.19 bs 2H 2.09 bs 2H ESIMS m z rel intensity 492 MH 100 . Anal. CHClNO.0.7HO C H N.

3 1 Hydroxyethyl piperazine 1 propyl 5 6 dihydro 2 3 dimethoxy 8 9 methylenedioxy 5 11 dioxo 11H indeno 1 2 c isoquinoline 5w . The desired analogue was isolated as a dark brown solid 258 mg 47 mp 262 264 C. H NMR CDCl 8.00 s 1H 7.60 s 1H 7.32 s 1H 7.04 s 1H 6.06 s 2H 4.52 bs 2H 4.03 s 3H 3.96 s 3H 3.22 bs 4H 3.13 bs 6H 2.84 bs 2H 2.68 bs 2H 1.73 bs 4H 1.63 bs 4H 1.43 s 18H 1.41 s 9H ESIMS m z rel intensity 522 MH 100 . Anal. CHNO.0.8HO C H N.

6 3 Morpholylethylamino 1 propyl 5 6 dihydro 2 3 dimethoxy 8 9 methylenedioxy 5 11 dioxo 11H indeno 1 2 c isoquinoline 5x . The desired analogue was isolated as a pale purple solid 245 mg 59 mp 215 217 C. H NMR CDCl 8.01 s 1H 7.62 s 1H 7.42 s 1H 7.05 s 1H 6.06 s 2H 4.52 bs 2H 4.03 s 3H 3.97 s 3H 3.70 bs 4H 2.81 bs 2H 2.73 bs 2H 2.53 bs 2H 2.46 bs 4H 2.02 bs 2H ESIMS m z rel intensity 522 MH 100 . Anal. CHNO.1.0HO C H N.

General Procedure for the Preparation of Mono Boc Protected Diamines. BocO 0.500 g 2.291 mmol was dissolved in CHCl 10 mL and the solution was added dropwise to a solution of diamine 11.45 mmol in CHCl 50 mL . The reaction mixture was allowed to stir at room temperature for 24 h concentrated and purified by flash column chromatography SiO eluting with a solution of 1 EtN 10 MeOH in CHCl to provide the mono Boc protected diamine. Mono Boc 1 diaminoethane mono Boc 1 3 diaminopropane and mono Boc 1 4 diaminobutane were also prepared as described below. 

Mono Boc 1 7 diaminoheptane The general procedure provided the desired compound as a colorless semisolid 0.473 g 90 . H NMR CDCl 4.52 bs 1H 3.12 q J 6.2 Hz 2H 2.70 t J 6.8 Hz 2H 1.43 1.23 m 19H .

Mono Boc 1 8 diaminooctane The general procedure provided the desired compound as a colorless semisolid 0.492 g 88 . H NMR CDCl 4.51 bs 1H 3.12 q J 6.5 Hz 2H 2.69 t J 6.8 Hz 2H 1.43 1.23 m 21H .

Mono Boc 1 9 diaminononane. The general procedure provided the desired compound as a colorless semisolid 0.125 g 21 . H NMR CDCl 4.50 bs 1H 3.12 q J 6.5 Hz 2H 2.70 t J 6.8 Hz 2H 1.44 1.22 m 23H .

Mono Boc 1 10 diaminodecane. The general procedure provided the desired compound as a colorless semisolid 0.192 g 31 . H NMR CDCl H NMR CDCl 4.50 bs 1H 3.13 q J 6.3 Hz 2H 2.71 t J 6.9 Hz 2H 1.44 1.18 m 27H .

Mono Boc 1 11 diaminoundecane. The general procedure provided the desired compound as a colorless solid 0.555 g 85 mp 30 34 C. IR film 3370 2919 2851 1687 and 1522 cm H NMR CDCl 4.49 bs 1H 3.11 q J 6.5 Hz 2H 2.71 t J 6.8 Hz 2H 1.44 1.27 m 29H ESIMS m z rel intensity 287 MH 100 . Anal. CHNO C H N.

Mono Boc 1 12 diaminododecane. The general procedure provided the desired compound as a colorless semisolid 0.191 g 28 . H NMR CDCl 4.48 bs 1H 3.11 q J 6.2 Hz 2H 2.76 t J 6.9 Hz 2H 1.44 1.26 m 31H .

6 Amino 5 6 dihydro 5 11 diketo 11H indeno 1 2 c isoquinoline 5z . Benz d indeno 1 2 b pyran 5 11 dione 4d 0.150 g 0.604 mmol was treated with hydrazine 0.255 g 7.964 mmol in CHCl 50 mL and the reaction mixture was heated at reflux for 16 h. The reaction mixture was allowed to cool to room temperature diluted with CHCl 150 mL and washed with sat NaHCO 2 50 mL . The solution was dried over sodium sulfate and concentrated to provide a red orange solid 0.120 g 76 mp 272 274 C. IR film 3448 3305 1686 1663 1610 1507 1312 762 cm H NMR CDCl 8.54 d J 7.8 Hz 1H 8.51 d J 7.2 Hz 1H 8.24 d J 7.4 Hz 1H 7.85 m 1H 7.60 7.45 m 4H 6.19 s 2H EIMS m z rel intensity 262 M 100 . Anal. CHNO.0.25HO C H N.

General Procedure for the Preparation of Mono Boc Protected Indenoisoquinolines. Mono Boc protected diamine 2.054 mmol was added to a solution of benz d indeno 1 2 b pyran 5 11 dione 4d 0.255 g 1.027 mmol in CHCl 100 mL . The reaction mixture was heated at reflux for 24 h concentrated and purified by flash column chromatography SiO eluting with CHCl to provide the mono Boc protected indenoisoquinoline Mono boc protected indenoisoquinolines 5aa 5ab and 5ac were also prepared as described below. 

6 7 tert BOC Aminoheptyl 5 6 dihydro 5 11 dioxo 11H indeno 1 2 c isoquinoline 5af . The general procedure provided the desired compound as a yellow orange solid 0.451 g 95 mp 112 116 C. IR film 3369 1697 1664 1503 and 1172 cm H NMR DMSO d 8.58 d J 8.1 Hz 1H 8.23 d J 8.2 Hz 1H 7.84 7.79 m 1H 7.71 d J 7.7 Hz 1H 7.63 7.50 m 4H 6.76 m 1H 4.50 t J 7.4 Hz 2H 2.90 q J 6.2 Hz 2H 1.77 m 2H 1.46 1.28 m 17H ESIMS m z rel intensity 483 MNa 100 . Anal. CHNO C H N.

6 8 tert BOC Aminooctyl 5 6 dihydro 5 11 dioxo 11H indeno 1 2 c isoquinoline 5ag . The general procedure provided the desired compound as a yellow orange solid 0.466 g 97 mp 140 143 C. IR film 3368 2929 1698 1665 1504 and 1172 cm H NMR DMSO d 8.58 d J 7.9 Hz 1H 8.23 d J 8.1 Hz 1H 7.84 7.78 m 1H 7.71 d J 7.5 Hz 1H 7.63 7.47 m 4H 6.75 m 1H 4.50 t J 7.4 Hz 2H 2.91 q J 6.6 Hz 2H 1.78 m 2H 1.46 1.26 m 19H ESIMS m z rel intensity 497 MNa 100 . Anal. CHNO C H N.

6 9 tert BOC Aminononyl 5 6 dihydro 5 11 dioxo 11H indeno 1 2 c isoquinoline 5ah . The general procedure provided the desired compound as an orange solid 0.145 g 77 mp 91 95 C. IR film 3371 2928 1698 1666 1504 and 1172 cm H NMR DMSO d 8.58 d J 8.0 Hz 1H 8.23 d J 7.4 Hz 1H 7.84 7.79 m 1H 7.71 d J 7.4 Hz 1H 7.63 7.50 m 4H 6.74 m 1H 4.50 t J 7.3 Hz 2H 2.91 q J 6.6 Hz 2H 1.78 m 2H 1.47 1.24 m 21H ESIMS m z rel intensity 511 MNa 100 . Anal. CHNO C H N.

6 10 tert BOC Aminodecyl 5 6 dihydro 5 11 dioxo 11H indeno 1 2 c isoquinoline 5ai . The general procedure provided the desired compound as a yellow orange solid 0.220 g 78 mp 135 137 C. IR film 3368 2927 1698 1666 1504 and 1172 cm H NMR DMSO d 8.58 d J 7.9 Hz 1H 8.23 dd J 8.1 Hz and 0.7 Hz 1H 7.84 dt J 7.2 Hz and 1.4 Hz 1H 7.71 d J 7.5 Hz 1H 7.63 747 m 4H 6.76 m 1H 4.50 t J 7.4 Hz 2H 2.90 q J 6.5 Hz 2H 1.77 m 2H 1.46 1.23 m 23H ESIMS m z rel intensity 525 MNa 100 . Anal. CHNO C H N.

6 11 tert BOC Aminoundecyl 5 6 dihydro 5 11 dioxo 11H indeno 1 2 c isoquinoline 5aj . The general procedure provided the desired compound as a yellow orange solid 0.445 g 86 mp 111 114 C. IR KBr 3364 2918 2850 1678 1660 1534 1505 and 758 cm H NMR DMSO d 8.58 d J 8.1 Hz 1H 8.23 d J 7.4 Hz 1H 7.84 7.79 m 1H 7.71 d J 7.5 Hz 1H 7.62 7.50 m 4H 6.74 m 1H 4.50 t J 7.4 Hz 2H 2.90 q J 6.5 Hz 2H 1.78 m 2H 1.46 1.22 m 25H ESIMS m z rel intensity 539 MNa 100 . Anal. CHNO C H N.

6 12 tert BOC Aminododecyl 5 6 dihydro 5 11 dioxo 11H indeno 1 2 c isoquinoline 5ak . The general procedure provided the desired compound as a yellow orange solid 0.177 g 66 mp 129 134 C. IR film 3369 2926 1698 1666 1504 and 1172 cm H NMR DMSO d 8.58 d J 8.0 Hz 1H 8.22 d J 7.4 Hz 1H 7.84 7.78 m 1H 7.71 d J 7.5 Hz 1H 7.62 7.50 m 4H 6.74 m 1H 4.50 t J 7.3 Hz 2H 2.90 q J 6.6 Hz 2H 1.77 m 2H 1.46 1.22 m 27H ESIMS m z rel intensity 553 MNa 100 . Anal. CHNO C H N.

6 5 Aminopentyl 5 6 dihydro 5 11 diketo 11H indeno 1 2 c isoquinoline Hydrochloride 5ao . Benz d indeno 1 2 b pyran 5 11 dione 4d 0.100 g 0.403 mmol was treated with 1 5 diaminopentane 0.206 g 2.014 mmol in CHCl 40 mL and the reaction mixture was heated at reflux for 16 h. The reaction mixture was allowed to cool to room temperature and washed with water 3 15 mL . The solution was dried over sodium sulfate filtered and treated with 2 M HCl in EtO 5 mL . After 30 film the reaction mixture was filtered and the filter pad was washed with CHCl 50 mL and hexanes 50 mL to provide an orange solid 0.122 g 82 mp 265 268 C. IR film 3432 3077 2856 1707 1635 1611 1549 and 1504 cm H NMR CDCl 8.59 d J 8.1 Hz 1H 8.23 d J 8.1 Hz 1H 7.85 7.80 m 3H 7.74 d J 7.4 Hz 1H 7.63 7.51 m 4H 4.52 t J 7.3 Hz 2H 2.81 m 2H 1.83 m 2H 1.65 1.52 m 4H ESIMS m z rel intensity 333 MH 100 . Anal. CHClNO.0.75HO C H N.

6 6 Aminohexyl 5 6 dihydro 5 11 diketo 11H indeno 1 2 c isoquinoline Hydrochloride 5ap . Benz d indeno 1 2 b pyran 5 11 dione 4d 0.100 g 0.403 mmol was treated with 1 6 diaminohexane 0.234 g 2.014 mmol in CHCl 40 mL and the reaction mixture was heated at reflux for 16 h. The reaction mixture was allowed to cool to room temperature and washed with water 3 25 mL . The solution was dried over sodium sulfate filtered and treated with 2 M in EtO 5 mL . After 30 min the reaction mixture was filtered and the filter pad was washed with CHCl 50 mL and hexanes 50 mL to provide an orange solid 0.125 g 81 mp 195 C. dec . IR film 3435 1660 1630 1610 and 1504 cm H NMR CDCl 8.59 d J 7.8 Hz 1H 8.23 d J 8.1 Hz 1H 7.85 7.71 m 4H 7.61 7.51 m 4H 4.52 t J 7.3 Hz 2H 2.78 m 2H 1.79 m 2H 1.59 1.39 m 6H ESIMS m z rel intensity 347 MH 100 . Anal. CHClNO.0.5HO C H N.

General Procedure for the Preparation of indenoisoquinoline Hydrochloride Salts. 3 M HCl in MeOH 10 mL was slowly added to a solution of mono Boc protected indenoisoquinoline 0.100 g 0.188 0.217 mmol in CHCl 50 mL at room temperature. After 2 h the reaction mixture was concentrated and the residue was triturated with EtO. Filtration of the obtained solid provided the indenoisoquinoline as a hydrochloride salt. Indenoisoquinoline hydrochloride salts 5al 5am and 5an were also prepared as described below. 

6 7 Aminoheptyl 5 6 dihydro 5 11 dioxo 11H indeno 1 2 c isoquinoline Hydrochloride 5aq . The general procedure provided the desired compound as a yellow orange solid 0.085 g 99 mp 228 231 C. IR KBr 3436 2931 1702 1650 1611 1549 1504 and 759 cm H NMR DMSO d 8.60 d J 8.1 Hz 1H 8.24 d J 8.2 Hz 1H 7.85 7.80 m 1H 7.73 d J 7.4 Hz 1H 7.63 7.49 m 6H 4.53 t J 7.0 Hz 2H 2.78 t J 7.1 Hz 2H 1.80 m 2H 1.55 1.35 m 8H ESIMS m z rel intensity 361 MH 100 . Anal. CHClNO.0.5HO C H N.

6 8 Aminooctyl 5 6 dihydro 5 11 dioxo 11H indeno 1 2 c isoquinoline Hydrochloride 5ar . The general procedure provided the desired compound as an orange solid 0.083 g 95 mp 182 185 C. IR KBr 3436 2930 1661 1505 and 761 cm H NMR DMSO d 8.60 d J 8.5 Hz 1H 8.24 d J 7.0 Hz 1H 7.86 7.81 m 1H 7.73 d J 7.6 Hz 1H 7.63 7.52 m 6H 4.52 t J 7.9 Hz 2H 2.78 t J 7.3 Hz 2H 1.79 m 2H 1.50 m 4H 1.31 m 6H ESIMS m z rel intensity 375 MH 100 . Anal. CHClNO.0.75HO C H N.

6 9 Aminononyl 5 6 dihydro 5 11 dioxo 11H indeno 1 2 c isoquinoline Hydrochloride 5as . The general procedure provided the desired compound as an orange solid 0.082 g 94 mp 204 207 C. KBr 3435 2927 1702 1662 1610 1549 1504 1427 and 759 cm H NMR DMSO d 8.60 d J 8.3 Hz 1H 8.24 d J 9.3 Hz 1H 7.83 7.81 m 1H 7.73 d J 7.8 Hz 1H 7.63 7.51 m 6H 4.52 t J 8.3 Hz 2H 2.78 t J 7.3 Hz 2H 1.79 m 2H 1.51 m 4H 1.28 m 8H ESIMS m z rel intensity 389 MH 100 . Anal. CHClNO.0.75HO C H N.

6 10 Aminodecyl 5 6 dihydro 5 11 dioxo 11H indeno 1 2 c isoquinoline Hydrochloride 5at . The general procedure provided the desired compound as an orange solid 0.087 g 91 mp 189 192 C. IR KBr 3443 2925 2851 1705 1646 1611 1550 1504 1467 and 759 cm H NMR DMSO d 8.60 d J 7.9 Hz 1H 8.23 d J 7.5 Hz 1H 7.83 m 1H 7.73 d J 8.0 Hz 1H 7.63 7.51 m 6H 4.52 t J 7.4 Hz 2H 2.76 m 2H 1.79 m 2H 1.49 m 4H 1.27 m 10H ESIMS m z rel intensity 403 MH 100 . Anal. CHClNO.0.5HO C H N.

6 11 Aminoundecyl 5 6 dihydro 5 11 dioxo 11H indeno 1 2 c isoquinoline Hydrochloride 5au . The general procedure provided the desired compound as an orange solid 0.085 g 88 mp 125 129 C. IR KBr 3436 2922 2851 1662 1610 1549 1504 1426 and 758 cm H NMR DMSO d 8.60 d J 8.0 Hz 1H 8.23 d J 7.5 Hz 1H 7.85 m 1H 7.72 d J 7.5 Hz 1H 7.63 7.51 m 6H 4.51 t J 8.0 Hz 2H 2.77 t J 7.6 Hz 2H 1.78 m 2H 1.48 m 4H 1.25 m 12H ESIMS m z rel intensity 417 MH 100 . Anal. CHClNO.1HO C H N.

6 12 Aminododecyl 5 6 dihydro 5 11 dioxo 11H indeno 1 2 c isoquinoline Hydrochloride 5ay . The general procedure provided the desired compound as a yellow solid 0.087 g 91 mp 175 178 C. IR KBr 3435 2927 2850 1704 1644 1506 1466 and 762 cm H NMR DMSO d 8.59 d J 7.8 Hz 1H 8.23 d J 7.5 Hz 1H 7.83 m 1H 7.72 d J 7.8 Hz 1H 7.63 7.51 m 6H 4.51 t J 7.5 Hz 2H 2.76 m 2H 1.78 m 2H 1.51 m 4H 1.24 m 14H ESIMS m z rel intensity 431 MH 100 . Anal. CHClNO.1.25HO C H N.

5 6 Dihydro 5 11 dioxo 6 2 pyridylmethyl 11H indeno 1 2 c isoquinoline 5aw . 2 Aminomethyl pyridine 0.054 g 0.504 mmol was added to a solution of benz d indeno 1 2 b pyran 5 11 dione 4d 0.100 g 0.403 mmol in CHCl 50 mL and the reaction mixture was heated at reflux for 16 h. The reaction mixture was allowed to cool to room temperature washed with HO 3 25 mL sat NaCl 25 mL dried over sodium sulfate and concentrated. The residue was washed with EtOAc hexanes and dried to provide a yellow solid 0.110 g 81 mp 240 242 C. IR KBr 1698 1655 1618 1501 1427 and 755 cm H NMR DMSO d 8.62 d J 8.0 Hz 1H 8.56 d J 4.9 Hz 1H 8.22 d J 8.1 Hz 1H 7.97 dt J 7.8 Hz and 1.7 Hz 1H 7.89 m 1H 7.61 7.37 m 7H 5.91 s 2H ESIMS m z rel intensity 339 MH 100 . Anal. CHNO C H N.

5 6 Dihydro 5 11 dioxo 6 3 pyridylmethyl 11H indeno 1 2 c isoquinoline Hydrochloride 5ax . 3 Aminomethyl pyridine 0.054 g 0.504 mmol was added to a solution of benz d indeno 1 2 b pyran 5 11 dione 4d 0.100 g 0.403 mmol in CHCl 50 mL and the reaction mixture was heated at reflux for 16 h. The reaction mixture was allowed to cool to room temperature washed with HO 3 25 mL sat NaCl 25 mL dried over sodium sulfate and concentrated. The residue was diluted with CHCl 40 mL 3 M HCl in MeOH 10 mL was added and the reaction mixture was allowed to stir at room temperature for 2 h. The reaction mixture was concentrated and the residue was washed with CHClto provide a pink solid 0.146 g 97 mp 274 C. dec . IR KBr 2343 2106 1695 1655 1610 1551 1501 and 754 cm H NMR DMSO d 8.98 s 1H 8.78 d J 5.2 Hz 1H 8.64 d J 8.1 Hz 1H 8.36 d J 9.1 Hz 1H 8.23 d J 7.5 Hz 1H 7.90 m 2H 7.59 7.39 m 5H 5.89 s 2H ESIMS m z rel intensity 339 MH 100 . Anal. CHClNO C H N.

5 6 Dihydro 5 11 dioxo 6 2 pyridylethyl 11H indeno 1 2 c isoquinoline Hydrochloride 5ay . 2 2 Aminoethyl pyridine 0.098 g 0806 mmol was added to a solution of benz d indeno 1 2 b pyran 5 11 dione 4d 0.100 g 0.403 mmol in CHCl 50 mL and the reaction mixture was heated at reflux for 16 h. The reaction mixture was allowed to cool to room temperature washed with HO 3 25 mL sat NaCl 25 mL dried over sodium sulfate and concentrated. The residue was diluted with CHCl 40 mL 3 M HCl MeOH 10 mL was added and the reaction mixture was allowed to stir at room temperature for 2 h. The reaction mixture was concentrated and the residue was washed with CHClto provide a yellow solid 0.146 g 93 mp 240 C. dec . IR KBr 2307 1698 1659 1610 1548 1504 1429 and 760 cm H NMR DMSO d 8.78 d J 5.5 Hz 1H 8.57 d J 8.0 Hz 1H 8.33 m 1H 8.02 d J 8.0 Hz 1H 7.97 d J 8.0 Hz 1H 7.90 d J 8.0 Hz 1H 7.80 m 2H 7.61 7.44 m 4H 4.92 t J 6.5 Hz 2H 3.59 t J 6.3 Hz 2H ESIMS m z rel intensity 353 MH 100 . Anal. CHClNO C H N.

5 6 Dihydro 5 11 dioxo 6 3 pyridylethyl 11H indeno 1 2 c isoquinoline 5az . 3 2 Aminoethyl pyridine 0.172 g 0.604 mmol was added to a solution of benz d indeno 1 2 b pyran 5 11 dione 4d 0.100 g 0.403 mmol in CHCl 50 mL . Triethylamine 0.224 mL 1.612 mmol was added and the reaction mixture was heated at reflux for 16 h. The reaction mixture was allowed to cool to room temperature washed with HO 3 25 mL sat NaCl 25 mL dried over sodium sulfate and concentrated. The obtained precipitate was washed with EtOAc hexanes and dried to provide an orange solid 0.140 g 99 mp 220 C. dec IR KBr 1691 1660 1609 1549 1504 1424 and 765 cm H NMR DMSO d 8.90 s 1H 8.73 d J 5.6 Hz 1H 8.59 d J 8.1 Hz 1H 8.44 d J 7.9 Hz 1H 8.10 d J 8.1 Hz 1H 7.88 m 3H 7.61 7.48 m 4H 4.87 t J 6.7 Hz 2H 3.37 t J 6.3 Hz 2H ESIMS m z rel intensity 353 MH 100 . Anal. CHNO.0.55HO C H N.

cis 4 Carboxy N 3 chloropropyl 3 4 dihydro 3 4 methoxyphenyl 1 2H isoquinolone 8a . Homophthalic anhydride 6a 3.065 g 18.90 mmol was added to a chloroform 125 mL solution of 4 methoxybenzylidene 3 chloro 1 propylamine 7a 4.000 g 18.90 mmol and the reaction mixture was allowed to stir at room temperature for 3 h. The obtained precipitate was filtered washed with chloroform 100 mL and dried to provide an off white solid 4.723 g 67 mp 180 181 C. IR KBr 3437 2957 1740 1622 1598 1573 1514 1479 1258 and 1173 cm H NMR CDOD 8.10 dd J 7.6 Hz and 1.4 Hz 1H 7.63 d J 7.6 Hz 1H 7.55 dt J 7.4 Hz and 1.5 Hz 1H 7.50 m 1H 6.97 m 2H 6.75 m 2H 5.13 d J 6.3 Hz 1H 4.76 d J 6.2 Hz 1H 3.98 m 1H 3.70 s 3H 3.61 m 2H 3.22 m 1H 2.13 2.01 m 2H ESIMS m z rel intensity 374 376 MH 100 33 . Anal. CHClNO C H N.

Benzylidene 3 bromo 1 propylamine 7b . The hydrobromide salt of 3 bromopropylamine 5.364 g 24.50 mmol was treated with triethylamine 4 mL in CHCl 100 mL and allowed to stir at room temperature for 5 min. Benzaldehyde 2.000 g 18.85 mmol and magnesium sulfate 6.000 g were added and the reaction mixture was allowed to stir at room temperature for 16 h. The reaction mixture was filtered and the filter pad was washed with CHCl 50 mL . The filtrate was washed with water 3 50 mL sat NaCl 50 mL dried over sodium sulfate and concentrated to provide a yellow oil 4.262 g 100 . IR film 1645 754 and 693 cm H NMR CDCl 8.34 s 1H 7.76 m 2H 7.44 m 3H 3.78 dt J 6.3 Hz and 1.3 Hz 2H 3.52 t J 6.5 Hz 2H 2.31 pent J 6.4 Hz 2H ESIMS m z rel intensity 226 228 MH 100 91 . Anal. CHBrN C H N.

cis 4 Carboxy 3 4 dihydro N 3 bromopropyl 3 phenyl 7 nitro 1 2H isoquinolone 8b . 4 Nitrohomophthalic anhydride 6b 3.664 g 17.69 mmol was added to a chloroform 125 mL solution of benzylidene 3 bromo 1 propylamine 7b 4.000 g 17.69 mmol and the reaction mixture was allowed to stir at room temperature for 1.25 h. The obtained precipitate was filtered washed with chloroform 150 mL and dried to provide a yellow solid 6.278 g 82 mp 158 160 C. IR KBr 3435 3061 1743 1638 1520 1349 and 1191 cm H NMR CD OD 8.90 d J 2.5 Hz 1H 8.38 dd J 8.7 Hz and 2.6 Hz 1H 7.98 m 1H 7.25 7.19 m 3H 7.07 7.03 m 2H 5.32 d J 6.2 Hz 1H 4.96 d J 6.2 Hz 1H 3.99 m 1H 3.52 m 2H 3.26 m 1H 2.26 2.12 m 2H negative ion ESIMS m z rel intensity 431 433 M H 12 9 . Anal. CHBrNO.1.0HO C H N.

6 3 Chloropropyl 5 6 dihydro 9 methoxy 5 11 dioxo 1H indeno 1 2 c isoquinoline 5bc . Thionyl chloride 2 mL was added to a solution of cis 4 carboxy N 3 chloropropyl 3 4 dihydro 3 4 methoxyphenyl 1 2H isoquinolone 8a 0.510 g 1.364 mmol in benzene 40 mL . The reaction mixture was heated at reflux for 30 min allowed to cool to room temperature and concentrated. The residue was diluted with nitrobenzene 20 mL chilled in an ice bath and aluminum chloride 0.364 g 2.728 mmol was added. The reaction mixture was removed from the bath and heated at 100 C. for 1.5 h. Ice water 100 mL was added and the solution was extracted with CHCl 3 50 mL . The combined organic layer was washed with sat NaHCO 3 50 mL sat NaCl 50 mL and dried over sodium sulfate. The solution was concentrated hexanes 250 mL were added and liquid was decanted. The obtained solid was washed with hexanes 100 mL and the liquid was again decanted. The solid was purified by flash column chromatography SiO eluting with chloroform to provide a purple red solid 0.082 g 17 that was precipitated from EtOAc hexanes mp 195 198 C. IR KBr 1662 1611 1505 1481 1432 and 1299 cm H NMR CDCl 8.67 d J 8.1 Hz 1H 8.31 dd J 8.2 Hz and 0.7 Hz 1H 7.73 m 1H 7.66 d J 8.4 Hz 1H 7.45 m 1H 7.22 d J 2.6 Hz 1H 6.86 dd J 8.4 Hz and 2.6 Hz 1H 4.67 m 2H 3.89 s 3H 3.83 m 2H 2.43 m 2H CIMS m z rel intensity 354 356 MH 100 30 . Anal. CHClNO C H N.

6 3 Bromopropyl 5 6 dihydro 5 11 dioxo 3 nitro 11H indeno 1 2 c isoquinoline 5bb . Thionyl chloride 5 mL was added to a solution of cis 4 carboxy 3 4 dihydro N 3 bromopropyl 3 phenyl 7 nitro 1 2H isoquinolone 8b 1.000 g 2.308 mmol in benzene 50 mL . The reaction mixture was heated at reflux for 30 min allowed to cool to room temperature and concentrated. The residue was diluted with nitrobenzene 30 mL chilled in an ice bath and aluminum chloride 0.616 g 4.616 mmol was added. The reaction mixture was removed from the bath and heated at 100 C. for 1 h. Ice water 100 mL was added and the solution was extracted with CHCl 3 100 mL . The combined organic layer was washed with sat NaHCO 3 50 mL sat NaCl 50 mL and dried over sodium sulfate. The solution was concentrated hexanes 900 mL were added and liquid was decanted. The obtained solid was washed with hexanes 100 mL and the liquid was again decanted. The crude solid was purified by flash column chromatography SiO eluting with chloroform to provide an orange solid 0.432 g 45 mp 258 260 C. dec . IR film 1672 1612 1560 1503 1428 and 1337 cm H NMR CDCl 9.20 d J 2.4 Hz 1H 8.89 d J 8.9 Hz 1H 8.52 dd J 9.0 Hz and 2.4 Hz 1H 7.92 m 1H 7.75 m 1H 7.57 7.52 m 2H 4.76 m 2H 3.70 t J 6.2 Hz 2H 2.54 m 2H CIMS m z rel intensity 413 415 MH 100 82 . Anal. CHBrNO C H N.

Bis 5 6 dihydro 5 11 diketo 11H indeno 1 2 c isoquinoline 6 ethylamine 12a . 2 2 Diaminodiethylamine 11a 0.3 g 2.91 mmol was added to a stirred solution of indenobenzopyran 4d 2.17 g 8.72 mmol in CHCl 200 mL and the mixture was stirred under reflux for 48 h. The reaction mixture was then cooled and the resultant orange solid was filtered through a sintered glass funnel and washed with chloroform 30 mL to provide pure bisindenoisoquinoline 12a 0.75 g 46 as an orange solid mp 240 242 C. H NMR DMSO d 8.51 d J 8.9 Hz 2H 8.11 d J 7.7 Hz 2H 7.76 bs 4H 7.47 bs 4H 7.36 bs 4H 4.51 bs 4H 3.03 bs 4H ESIMS m z rel intensity MH 100 . Anal. Calcd for CHNO C 76.72 H 4.47 N 7.46. Found C 76.35 H 4.45 N 7.39.

Bis 5 6 dihydro 5 11 diketo 11H indeno 1 2 c isoquinoline 6 ethyl 6 propyl amine 12b . 2 Aminoethyl 3 aminopropylamine 11b 0.2 g 1.71 mmol was added to a stirred solution of indenobenzopyran 4d 1.06 g 4.27 mmol in CHCl 200 mL and the reaction mixture was stirred under reflux for 48 h. The reaction mixture was then cooled and the resultant orange solid was filtered through a sintered glass funnel and washed with chloroform methanol mixture 2 8 50 mL to provide pure bisindenoisoquinoline 12b 0.72 g 73 as an orange solid mp 250 252 C. H NMR CDCl 8.69 d J 8.5 Hz 2H 8.29 t J 7.4 Hz 2H 7.70 t J 7.4 Hz 2H 7.62 m 2H 7.46 7.37 m 8H 4.69 t J 7.3 Hz 2H 4.61 t J 7.5 Hz 2H 3.16 t J 7.3 Hz 2H 2.89 t J 6.0 Hz 2H 2.05 m 2H ESIMS m z rel intensity 578 MH 100 HRESIMS calcd for CHNO H 578.2079. Found 578.2087.

Bis 5 6 dihydro 5 11 diketo 1H indeno 1 2 c isoquinoline 6 propylamine 12c . 3 3 Diaminodipropylamine 11c 0.3 g 2.29 mmol was added to a stirred solution of indenobenzopyran 4d 1.7 g 6.86 mmol in CHCl 200 mL and the mixture was stirred under reflux for 48 h. The bright orange reaction mixture was purified by flash column chromatography SiO CHClto 3 MeOH in CHCl to afford pure bisindenoisoquinoline 12c 0.54 g in 40 yield as a dark orange solid mp 223 225 C. H NMR CDCl 8.65 d J 8.1 Hz 2H 8.27 d J 8.1 Hz 2H 7.67 t J 7.1 Hz 4H 7.57 d J 7.0 Hz 2H 7.41 t J 7.1 Hz 4H 7.33 t J 7.1 Hz 2H 4.62 t J 7.3 Hz 4H 2.84 t J 6.4 Hz 4H 2.08 m 4H H NMR DMSO d 8.53 d J 7.8 Hz 2H 8.18 d J 7.9 Hz 2H 7.87 d J 7.4 Hz 2H 7.79 t J 7.6 Hz 2H 7.54 t J 5.8 Hz 4H 7.46 m 4H 4.53 t J 6.9 Hz 4H 2.80 bs 4H 1.99 m 4H ESIMS m z rel intensity 592 MH 100 . Anal. Calcd for CHNO.1.6HO C 73.56 H 5.23 N 6.77. Found C 73.18 H 4.93 N 6.47.

Bis 5 6 dihydro 5 11 diketo 11H indeno 1 2 c isoquinoline 6 propylmethylamine 12d . 3 3 Diamino N methyl dipropylamine 11d 0.10 g 0.69 mmol was added to a stirred solution of indenobenzopyran 4d 0.38 g 1.52 mmol in CHCl 150 mL and the reaction mixture was stirred under reflux for 48 h. The reaction mixture was cooled to room temperature and purified by flash column chromatography SiO CHClto 5 MeOH in CHCl to provide bisindenoisoquinoline 12d 340 mg 82 as a red solid mp 230 232 C. H NMR CDCl 8.67 d J 8.1 Hz 2H 8.30 d J 7.6 Hz 2H 7.72 7.66 dt J 8.3 and 2.8 Hz 4H 7.59 d J 7.1 Hz 2H 7.48 7.40 q J 7.5 Hz 4H 7.33 t J 7.3 Hz 2H 4.63 t J 8.0 Hz 4H 2.66 t J 6.5 Hz 4H 2.37 s 3H 2.13 2.04 m 4H ESIMS m z rel intensity 606 MH 100 . Anal. Calcd for CHNO.0.4CHCl C 72.42 H 4.84 N 6.43. Found C 72.67 H 5.05 N 6.32.

Bis 5 6 dihydro 5 11 diketo 11H indeno 1 2 c isoquinoline 6 propyl 6 butyl amine 12e . 4 Aminobutyl 3 aminopropylamine 11e 0.2 g 1.38 mmol was added to a stirred solution of indenobenzopyran 4d 0.75 g 3.03 mmol in CHCl 200 mL and the reaction mixture was stirred under reflux for 48 h. The reaction mixture was then cooled and the resultant orange solid was filtered through a sintered glass funnel and washed with chloroform methanol mixture 5 1 50 mL to provide pure bisindenoisoquinoline 12e 0.63 g 76 as an orange solid mp 228 230 C. H NMR CDCl 8.67 d J 8.1 Hz 2H 8.28 d J 8.1 Hz 2H 7.70 7.65 m 2H 7.59 d J 6.8 Hz 2H 7.52 d J 7.4 Hz 2H 7.45 7.24 m 6H 4.61 t J 7.3 Hz 2H 4.55 t J 7.9 Hz 2H 2.84 t J 6.5 Hz 2H 2.80 t J 6.8 Hz 2H 2.15 2.10 m 2H 2.00 1.95 m 2H 1.84 1.77 m 2H ESIMS m z rel intensity 606 MH 100 HRESIMS calcd for CHNO H 606.2393. Found 606.2402.

Bis 1 3 5 6 dihydro 5 11 diketo 11H indeno 1 2 c isoquinoline 6 ethyl tert BOCamino propane 13a . N N Bis 2 aminoethyl 1 3 propanediamine 11g 0.10 g 0.62 mmol was added to a stirred solution of indenobenzopyran 4d 0.34 g 1.37 mmol in CHCl 150 mL and the reaction mixture was stirred under reflux for 72 h providing bisindenoisoquinoline 12 g as a crude intermediate. After allowing the reaction mixture to cool to room temperature EtN 0.35 mL 2.50 mmol and BocO 0.34 g 1.56 mmol were added and the reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 8 h. The crude reaction mixture was purified by flash column chromatography SiO 20 EtOAc in hexane then 1 5 MeOH in CHCl to provide Boc protected bisindenoisoquinoline 13a 380 mg 74 as an orange solid mp 238 240 C. H NMR CDCl 8.63 d J 8.0 Hz 2H 8.16 d J 7.4 Hz 2H 7.65 7.58 m 5H 7.53 7.45 m 2H 7.38 7.29 m 5H 4.63 bs 4H 3.62 bs 4H 3.32 bs 4H 1.90 bs 2H 1.41 s 18H ESIMS m z rel intensity 821 MH 10 721 MH Boc 100 . Anal. Calcd for CHNO C 71.69 H 5.89 N 6.82. Found C 71.35 H 5.99 N 6.68.

Bis 1 2 5 6 dihydro 5 11 diketo 11H indeno 1 2 c isoquinoline 6 propyl tert BOCamino ethane 13b N N Bis 3 aminopropyl 1 2 ethanediamine 11h 0.16 g 0.85 mmol was added to a stirred solution of indenobenzopyran 4d 0.46 g 1.87 mmol in CHCl 150 mL and the reaction mixture was stirred under reflux for 72 h providing bisindenoisoquinoline 12 h as a crude intermediate. Upon allowing the reaction mixture to cool to room temperature EtN 0.6 mL 4.24 mmol and BocO 0.56 g 2.60 mmol were added to the reaction mixture and the mixture was allowed to stir at room temperature for 8 h. The crude reaction mixture was purified by flash column chromatography SiO 20 EtOAc in hexane then 1 5 MeOH in CHCl to provide Boc protected bisindenoisoquinoline 13b 550 mg 76 as an orange solid mp 106 108 C. HNMR CDCl 8.60 bs 2H 8.23 bs 2H 7.65 bs 2H 7.55 d J 6.7 Hz 2H 7.40 7.32 m 8H 4.48 bs 4H 3.45 bs 8H 2.12 bs 4H 1.44 s 9H 1.39 s 9H ESIMS m z rel intensity 835 MH 22 735 MH Boc 100 . Anal. Calcd for CHNO.0.3HO C 71.46 H 6.07 N 6.67. Found C 71.15 H 6.19 N 6.61.

Bis 1 3 5 6 dihydro 5 11 diketo 11H indeno 1 2 c isoquinoline 6 propyl tert BOCamino propane 13c . N N Bis 3 aminopropyl 1 3 propanediamine 11j 0.15 g 0.74 mmol was added to a stirred solution of indenobenzopyran 4d 0.40 g 1.63 mmol in CHCl 150 mL and the reaction mixture was stirred under reflux for 72 h providing bisindenoisoquinoline 12j as a crude intermediate. Upon allowing the reaction mixture to cool to room temperature EtN 0.53 mL 3.78 mmol and BocO 0.49 g 2.27 mmol were added to the reaction mixture and the mixture was allowed to stir at room temperature for 8 h. The crude reaction mixture was purified by flash column chromatography SiO 20 EtOAc in hexane then 1 5 MeOH in CHCl to provide Boc protected bisindenoisoquinoline 13c 450 mg 70 as an orange solid mp 86 88 C. H NMR CDCl 8.63 d J 8.1 Hz 2H 8.24 d J 7.6 Hz 2H 7.65 t J 7.3 Hz 2H 7.55 d J 6.7 Hz 2H 7.40 7.31 m 8H 4.49 bs 4H 3.44 bs 4H 3.27 apparent t J 6.2 Hz 4H 2.08 bs 4H 1.86 bs 2H 1.41 bs 18H ESIMS m z relative intensity 849 MH 3 749 MH Boc 37 649 MH 2 Boc 100 . Anal. Calcd for CHNO.0.5HO C 71.39 H 6.23 N 6.53. Found C 70.99 H 6.20 N 6.62.

Bis 1 4 5 6 dihydro 5 11 diketo 11H indeno 1 2 c isoquinoline 6 propyl tert BOCamino butane 13d . N N Bis 3 aminopropyl 1 4 butanediamine 11k 0.10 g 0.50 mmol was added to a stirred solution of indenobenzopyran 4d 0.27 g 1.09 mmol in CHCl 150 mL and the reaction mixture was stirred under reflux for 72 h providing bisindenoisoquinoline 12k as a crude intermediate. Upon allowing the reaction mixture to cool to room temperature EtN 0.28 mL 2.00 mmol and BocO 0.27 g 1.25 mmol were added to the reaction mixture and the mixture was allowed to stir at room temperature for 8 h. The crude reaction mixture was purified by flash column chromatography SiO 20 EtOAc in hexane and then 1 5 MeOH in CHCl to provide Boc protected bisindenoisoquinoline 13d 350 mg 82 as an orange solid mp 92 94 C. H NMR CDCl 8.66 d J 8.1 Hz 2H 8.28 d J 8.0 Hz 2H 7.68 t J 7.7 Hz 2H 7.60 d J 7.1 Hz 2H 7.43 7.34 m 8H 4.51 t J 8.3 Hz 4H 3.44 bs 4H 3.28 bs 4H 2.11 m 4H 1.50 bs 4H 1.41 s 18H ESIMS m z rel intensity 863 MH 13 763 MH Boc 100 . Anal. Calcd for CHNO.0.9HO C 71.04 H 6.40 N 6.37. Found C 70.77 H 6.39 N 6.26.

Bis 5 6 dihydro 5 11 diketo 11H indeno 1 2 c isoquinoline 6 ethyl 6 propyl ammonium Trifluoroacetate 14a . Bisindenoisoquinoline 12b 0.5 g 0.87 mmol was dissolved in neat CFCOOH 30 mL and the reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 1 h. The reaction mixture was concentrated diluted with chloroform 50 mL and the resultant solid was filtered through a sintered glass funnel and further washed with methanol 50 mL to give bisindenoisoquinoline 14a 0.48 g 80 as a red solid mp 240 242 C. H NMR DMSO d 8.71 bs 1H NH 8.56 d J 7.8 Hz 2H 8.17 d J 8.6 Hz 2H 7.83 7.75 m 4H 7.57 7.50 m 8H 4.79 bs 2H 4.57 bs 2H 3.46 bs 2H 3.17 bs 2H 2.18 bs 2H ESIMS m z rel intensity 578 MH CFCOOH 100 . Anal. Calcd for CHNOF.0.3HO C 67.20 H 4.14 N 6.03. Found C 66.85 H 4.12 N 5.93.

Bis 5 6 dihydro 5 11 diketo 11H indeno 1 2 c isoquinoline 6 propyl 6 butyl amine Hydrochloride 14b . 2 M HCl in ether 6.2 mL 2.4 mmol was added to a stirred solution of bisindenoisoquinoline 12e 0.5 g 0.83 mmol in chloroform 100 mL and the reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 2 h. The reaction mixture was filtered through a sintered glass funnel and the solid was washed with chloroform 50 mL and methanol 50 mL to give bisindenoisoquinoline hydrochloride 14b 0.44 g 83 as an orange solid mp 280 282 C. dec . H NMR DMSO d 8.66 bs 1H 8.54 d J 7.9 Hz 2H 8.18 d J 8.6 Hz 2H 7.53 7.7 d 0 m 4H 7.58 7.40 m 8H 4.54 4.42 m 4H 3.06 bs 2H 2.96 bs 2H 2.16 bs 2H 1.84 bs 2H 1.76 bs 2H ESIMS m z rel intensity 606 MH 100 . Anal. Calcd for CHNOCl.1.1HO C 70.76 H 5.21 N 6.35. Found C 70.48 H 5.12 N 6.23.

Bis 1 2 5 6 dihydro 5 11 diketo 11H indeno 1 2 c isoquinoline 6 ethylaminoethane Bis trifluoroacetate 14c . N N Bis 2 aminoethyl 1 2 ethanediamine 11f 0.4 g 2.74 mmol was added to a stirred solution of indenobenzopyran 4d 1.49 g 6.02 mmol in CHCl 200 mL and the reaction mixture was stirred under reflux for 48 h. The reaction mixture was then cooled and the resultant orange solid was filtered through a sintered glass funnel and washed with chloroform 50 mL to provide bisindenoisoquinoline 12f 0.57 g 69 as an insoluble orange solid. Intermediate 12f 0.5 g 0.83 mmol was dissolved in neat CFCOOH 30 mL and stirred at room temperature for 30 min. The reaction mixture was concentrated diluted with chloroform 50 mL and filtered through a sintered glass funnel to provide bisindenoisoquinoline 14c 0.57 g 83 as an orange solid mp 230 232 C. H NMR DMSO d 8.97 bs 2H 8.59 d J 8.1 Hz 2H 8.23 d J 8.0 Hz 2H 7.89 7.83 td J 1.2 and 8.3 Hz 2H 7.76 d J 6.8 Hz 2H 7.63 7.50 m 8H 4.83 bs 4H 3.52 bs 4H 3.32 bs 4H ESIMS m z rel intensity 607 MH 100 . Anal. Calcd for CHNOF.0.4HO C 59.92 H 3.93 N 6.66. Found C 59.56 H 4.04 N 6.62.

Bis 1 3 5 6 dihydro 5 11 diketo 11H indeno 1 2 c isoquinoline 6 ethylaminopropane Bis trifluoroacetate 14d . Boc protected bisindenoisoquinoline 13a 0.3 g 0.36 mmol was dissolved in neat CFCOOH 30 mL and the mixture was stirred at room temperature for 1 h. The reaction mixture was concentrated and the resultant solid was diluted with chloroform 50 mL and filtered through a sintered glass funnel to provide bisindenoisoquinoline 14d 0.28 g 92 as an orange solid mp 244 246 C. H NMR DMSO d 8.93 bs 2H 8.60 d J 8.4 Hz 2H 8.23 d J 7.9 Hz 2H 7.87 t J 7.5 Hz 2H 7.79 d J 7.8 Hz 2H 7.60 7.52 m 8H 4.82 bs 4H 3.47 bs 4H 3.07 bs 4H 1.95 bs 2H ESIMS m z rel intensity 621 MH 100 274 7 . Anal. Calcd for CHFNO.1.7HO C 58.73 H 4.29 N 6.37. Found C 58.38 H 4.32 N 6.26.

Bis 1 2 5 6 dihydro 5 11 diketo 11H indeno 1 2 c isoquinoline 6 propylaminoethane Bis trifluoroacetate 14e . Boc protected bisindenoisoquinoline 13b 0.5 g 0.79 mmol was dissolved in neat CFCOOH 30 mL and the mixture was stirred at room temperature for 30 min. The reaction mixture was concentrated diluted with chloroform 50 mL and the resultant solid was filtered through a sintered glass funnel to afford bisindenoisoquinoline 14e 0.61 g 90 as a pale red solid mp 220 222 C. H NMR DMSO d 8.84 bs 2H 8.57 d J 8.1 Hz 2H 8.20 d J 7.8 Hz 2H 7.85 7.77 m 4H 7.60 7.48 m 8H 4.57 t J 6.6 Hz 4H 3.23 bs 4H 3.18 bs 4H 2.16 m 4H ESIMS m z rel intensity 635 MH 61 . Anal. Calcd for CHNOF.1.4HO C 59.51 H 4.40 N 6.31. Found C 59.15 H 4.06 N 6.06.

Bis 1 4 5 6 dihydro 5 11 diketo 11H indeno 1 2 c isoquinoline 6 propylpiperazine Bis trifluoroacetate 14f . 1 4 Bis 3 aminopropyl piperazine 11i 0.10 g 0.50 mmol was added to a stirred solution indenobenzopyran 4d 0.27 g 1.10 mmol in CHCl 150 mL and the reaction mixture was stirred under reflux for 60 h. The reaction mixture was then cooled and the resultant red solid was filtered off through a sintered glass funnel washed with chloroform 50 mL and dried to provide intermediate 12i. This compound was further treated with CFCOOH 40 mL and the mixture was stirred at room temperature for 2 h. The reaction mixture was concentrated diluted with chloroform 50 mL and the resultant solid was filtered and washed with methanol chloroform 1 9 to provide bisindenoisoquinoline 14f 430 mg 86 as red solid mp 256 258 C. H NMR CDCl 8.57 d J 8.0 Hz 2H 8.21 d J 8.1 Hz 2H 7.85 7.77 m 4H 7.58 7.48 m 8H 4.55 bs 4H 3.34 bs 4H 3.02 bs 4H 2.72 bs 2H 2.47 bs 2H merged with DMSO dprotons 2.09 bs 4H ESIMS m z rel intensity 661 MH 100 . Anal. Calcd for CHFNO.0.4HO C 61.66 H 4.37 N 6.25. Found C 61.27 H 4.61 N 6.18.

Bis 1 3 5 6 dihydro 5 11 diketo 11H indeno 1 2 c isoquinoline 6 propylaminopropane Bis trifluoroacetate 14g . Boc protected bisindenoisoquinoline 13c 0.3 g 0.35 mmol was dissolved in neat CFCOOH 30 mL and the mixture was stirred at room temperature for 1 h. The reaction mixture was concentrated and the resultant solid was diluted with chloroform 50 mL and filtered through a sintered glass funnel to provide bisindenoisoquinoline 14g 0.27 g 89 as an orange solid mp 225 227 C. H NMR DMSO d 8.66 bs 2H 8.56 d J 8.1 Hz 2H 8.19 d J 7.9 Hz 2H 7.79 t J 7.9 Hz 4H 7.59 7.48 m 8H 4.57 bs 4H 3.09 bs 4H 2.96 bs 4H 2.15 bs 4H 1.87 bs 2H ESIMS m z relative intensity 649 MH 100 . Anal. Calcd for CHFNO.1.3HO C 60.04 H 4.55 N 6.22. Found C 59.71 H 4.41 N 6.03.

Bis 1 4 5 6 dihydro 5 11 diketo 11H indeno 1 2 c isoquinoline 6 propylaminobutane Bis trifluoroacetate 14h . Boc protected bisindenoisoquinoline 13d 0.3 g 0.35 mmol was dissolved in neat CFCOOH 20 mL and the mixture was stirred at room temperature for 1 h. The reaction mixture was concentrated and the resultant solid was diluted with chloroform 50 mL and filtered through a sintered glass funnel to provide bisindenoisoquinoline 14h 0.28 g 90 as an orange solid mp 236 238 C. H NMR DMSO d 8.58 d J 8.0 Hz 2H 8.52 bs 2H 8.20 d J 8.1 Hz 2H 7.84 7.78 m 4H 7.60 7.49 m 8H 4.57 t J 6.6 Hz 4H 3.08 bs 4H 2.92 bs 4H 2.16 m 4H 1.59 bs 4H ESIMS m z rel intensity 663 MH 100 . Anal. Calcd for CHFNO.0.4HO C 61.52 H 4.58 N 6.24. Found C 61.22 H 4.62 N 6.09.

Bis 5 6 dihydro 5 11 diketo 11H indeno 1 2 c isoquinoline 6 ethylamino ethylamine Tris trifluoroacetate 14i . N 2 aminoethyl N 2 aminoethyl aminoethyl 1 2 ethanediamine 11l 0.20 g 1.06 mmol was added to a stirred solution of indenobenzopyran 4d 0.58 g 2.32 mmol in CHCl 150 mL and the reaction mixture was stirred under reflux for 4 days providing bisindenoisoquinoline 12l as a crude intermediate. Upon allowing the reaction mixture to cool to room temperature EtN 0.86 mL 6.13 mmol and BocO 0.89 g 4.09 mmol were added and the mixture was allowed to stir at room temperature for 12 h. The crude reaction mixture was purified by flash column chromatography SiO 20 EtOAc in hexane then 1 3 MeOH in CHCl to provide Boc protected bisindenoisoquinoline 13e 0.61 g 61 which was further treated with neat CFCOOH 30 mL and stirred at room temperature for 3 h. The reaction mixture was concentrated and the resultant solid was diluted with chloroform 50 mL and filtered through a sintered glass funnel to provide bisindenoisoquinoline 14i 0.42 g 66 as red solid mp 198 200 C. dec . H NMR DMSO d 8.55 d J 8.1 Hz 2H 8.20 d J 7.6 Hz 2H 7.85 7.76 m 4H 7.59 7.48 m 8H 4.81 bs 4H 3.54 bs 4H 3.32 bs 8H ESIMS m z rel intensity 650 MH 100 . Anal. Calcd for CHNOF.0.6CHClNH C 53.15 H 3.93 N 7.45. Found C 53.16 H 4.27 N 7.81.

Bis 1 2 5 6 dihydro 5 11 diketo 11H indeno 1 2 c isoquinoline 6 ethylamino ethylaminoethane Tetra trifluoroacetate 14j . N N Bis 2 aminoethyl aminoethyl 1 2 ethanediamine 11m 0.20 g 0.86 mmol was added to a stirred solution of indenobenzopyran 4d 0.47 g 1.89 mmol in CHCl 150 mL and the reaction mixture was stirred under reflux for 4 days providing bisindenoisoquinoline 12m as a crude intermediate. Upon allowing the reaction mixture to cool to room temperature EtN 1.21 mL 8.67 mmol and BocO 0.95 g 4.34 mmol were added to the reaction mixture and the mixture was allowed to stir at room temperature for 12 h. The crude reaction mixture was purified by flash column chromatography SiO 20 EtOAc in hexane then 1 3 MeOH in CHCl to provide Boc protected bisindenoisoquinoline 13f 0.62 g 66 which was further treated with neat CFCOOH 30 mL and stirred at room temperature for 3 h. The reaction mixture was concentrated and the resultant solid was diluted with chloroform 50 mL and filtered through a sintered glass funnel to provide bisindenoisoquinoline 14j 0.48 g 49 as red solid mp 206 208 C. dec . H NMR DMSO d 8.55 t J 8.4 Hz 2H 8.19 t J 8.0 Hz 2H 7.82 7.61 m 4H 7.59 7.51 m 8H 4.81 bs 4H 3.52 bs 4H 3.27 bs 4H 3.19 3.13 bs 8H ESIMS m z rel intensity 693 MH 100 . Anal. Calcd for CHNOF.0.6HO C 51.78 H 3.93 N 7.25. Found C 51.41 H 4.17 N 7.53.

Bis 1 3 5 6 dihydro 5 11 diketo 2 3 dimethoxy 11H indeno 1 2 c isoquinoline 6 ethylaminopropane Bistrifluoroacetate 14k . N N Bis 2 aminoethyl 1 3 propanediamine 11g 01050 g 0.309 mmol was added to a solution of 2 3 dimethoxybenz d indeno 1 2 b pyran 5 11 dione 4a 0.200 g 0.649 mmol in CHCl 50 mL . The solution was heated at reflux for 72 h and cooled to room temperature. Triethylamine 0.17 mL and BocO 0.270 g 1.236 mmol were added to the solution and stirring was continued at room temperature for 16 h. The solution was washed with water 2 25 mL and sat NaCl 25 mL dried over sodium sulfate and concentrated. The crude red solid was purified by flash column chromatography SiO CHClto 3 MeOH in CHCl followed by precipitation from CHCl hexanes to provide a pink solid. The obtained pink solid was diluted with trifluoroacetic acid 30 mL and the mixture was stirred at room temperature for 16 h. The solution was concentrated diluted with CHCl 50 mL and filtered to provide a red solid 0.257 g 86 mp 225 228 C. IR KBr 3437 1652 1553 1513 1429 1268 1204 and 1021 cm H NMR DMSO d 7.96 s 2H 7.72 7.69 bs 2H 7.52 7.43 m 8H 4.71 bs 4H 3.92 s 6H 3.81 s 6H 3.06 bs 4H 1.99 bs 2H ESIMS m z rel intensity 741 MH 100 . Anal. Calcd for CHFNO.4HO C 54.23 H 54.83 N 5.38. Found C 54.63 H 4.49 N 5.47.

Bis 1 3 5 6 dihydro 5 11 diketo 2 3 dimethoxy 11H indeno 1 2 c isoquinoline 6 propylaminopropane Bistrifluoroacetate 14l . N N Bis 3 aminopropyl 1 3 propanediamine 11j 0.058 g 0.309 mmol was added to a solution of indenobenzopyran 4a 0.200 g 0.649 mmol in CHCl 50 mL . The solution was heated at reflux for 72 h and cooled to room temperature. Triethylamine 0.17 mL and BocO 0.270 g 1.236 mmol were added to the solution and stirring was continued at room temperature for 16 h. The solution was washed with water 2 25 mL and sat NaCl 25 mL dried over sodium sulfate and concentrated. The crude orange solid was purified by flash column chromatography SiO CHClto 3 MeOH in CHCl followed by precipitation from EtOAc to provide an orange solid. The obtained orange solid was diluted with trifluoroacetic acid 30 mL and the mixture was stirred at room temperature for 16 h. The solution was concentrated diluted with CHCl 50 mL and filtered to provide a red solid 0.221 g 72 mp 273 276 C. dec . IR KBr 3436 1639 1553 1512 1478 1429 1267 1184 and 1022 cm H NMR DMSO d 8.43 bs 4H 8.00 s 2H 7.76 d J 7.58 Hz 2H 7.59 7.45 m 8H 4.56 bs 4H 3.93 s 6H 3.85 s 6H 3.09 bs 4H 2.98 bs 4H 2.15 bs 4H 1.86 bs 2H ESIMS m z rel intensity 769 MH 100 . Anal. Calcd for CHFNO.6HO C 53.26 H 5.29 N 5.07. Found C 52.88 H 4.96 N 5.21.

Bis 1 3 5 6 dihydro 5 11 diketo 3 nitro 11H indeno 1 2 c isoquinoline 6 ethylaminopropane Bistrifluoroacetate 14m . N N Bis 2 aminoethyl 1 3 propanediamine 11g 0.056 g 0.349 mmol was added to a solution of indenobenzopyran 4c 0.225 g 0.767 mmol in CHCl 50 mL . The solution was heated at reflux for 72 h and cooled to room temperature. Triethylamine 0.19 mL and BocO 0.305 g 1.396 mmol were added to the solution and stirring was continued at room temperature for 16 h. The solution was washed with water 2 30 mL and sat NaCl 30 mL dried over sodium sulfate and concentrated. The crude orange solid was purified by flash column chromatography SiO CHClto 3 MeOH CHCl to provide an orange solid. The orange solid was diluted with trifluoroacetic acid 40 mL and the mixture was stirred at room temperature for 24 h. The solution was concentrated diluted with CHCl 50 mL and filtered to provide an orange solid 0.221 g 67 mp 227 230 C. dec . IR KBr 3433 3087 3022 2819 1679 1615 1560 1505 1429 1138 and 1200 cm H NMR CDCl 8.90 bs 4H 8.79 d J 9.14 Hz 2H 8.66 d J 9.07 Hz 2H 7.93 d J 6.54 Hz 2H 7.74 d J 7.17 Hz 2H 7.67 m 4H 4.87 bs 4H 3.49 bs 4H 3.09 bs 4H 1.91 bs 2H ESIMS m z rel intensity 711 MH 100 . Anal. Calcd for CHFNO.0.5HO C 54.49 H 3.51 N 8.87. Found C 54.24 H 3.80 N 8.86.

Bis 1 3 5 6 dihydro 5 11 diketo 3 nitro 11H indeno 1 2 c isoquinoline 6 propylaminopropane Bistrifluoroacetate 14n . N N Bis 3 aminopropyl 1 3 propanediamine 11j 0.064 g 0.341 mmol was added to a solution of indenobenzopyran 4c 0.200 g 0.682 mmol in CHCl 75 mL . The solution was heated at reflux for 72 h and cooled to room temperature. Triethylamine 0.19 mL and BocO 0.298 g 1.364 mmol were added to the solution and stirring was continued at room temperature for 16 h. The solution was washed with water 2 30 mL and sat NaCl 30 mL dried over sodium sulfate and concentrated. The crude orange solid was purified by flash column chromatography SiO CHClto 3 MeOH in CHCl to provide an orange solid. The obtained orange solid was diluted with trifluoroacetic acid 40 mL and stirred at room temperature for 2 h. The solution was concentrated diluted with CHCl 50 mL and filtered to provide an orange solid 0.206 g 62 mp 220 223 C. IR KBr 1678 1614 1505 1339 1203 and 1132 cm H NMR CDCl 8.88 d J 2.5 Hz 2H 8.75 d J 9.0 Hz 2H 8.63 bs 2H 8.60 dd J 9.0 Hz and 2.5 Hz 2H 7.92 d J 6.5 Hz 2H 7.70 7.61 m 6H 4.64 t J 5.9 Hz 4H 3.15 bs 4H 2.98 bs 4H 2.19 bs 2H ESIMS m z rel intensity 739 MH 100 . Anal. Calcd for CHFNO.3HO C 52.95 H 4.15 N 8.23. Found C 53.33 H 4.32 N 8.60.

1 3 6 3 tert Butyloxycarbonylamino 1 propyl 5 6 dihydro 2 3 dimethoxy 8 9 methylenedioxy 5 11 dioxo 11H indeno 2 c isoquinoline 5 6 dihydro 6 3 tert butyloxycarbonylamino 1 propyl 5 11 dioxo 11 H indeno 1 2 c isoquinolinepropane 16a . 5 M NaOH aq was added slowly to a solution of indenoisoquinoline hydrochloride A 1.0 g 1.58 mmol in a water chloroform solution 2 1 250 mL which was prepared according to Nagarajan M. Xiao X. Antony S. Kohlhagen G. Pommier Y. Cushman M. Design Synthesis and Biological Evaluation of Indenoisoquinoline Topoisomerase I Inhibitors Featuring Polyamine Side Chains on the Lactam Nitrogen 2003 46 5712 5724 the disclosure of which is hereby incorporated by reference. At a pH of 7 8 the organic layer was separated and the aqueous layer was extracted with chloroform 3 100 mL . The combined organic layers were washed with water 100 mL sat NaCl 100 mL dried over NaSO and concentrated. Indenobenzopyran 4d 0.43 g 1.74 mmol was added to a solution of the crude indenoisoquinoline triamine A 0.70 g 1.34 mmol in chloroform 200 mL and the reaction mixture was heated at reflux for 4 days. The reaction mixture containing crude unsymmetrical bisindenoisoquinoline 15a was cooled to room temperature EtN 0.93 mL 6.64 mmol and BocO 0.87 g 3.98 mmol were added and the solution was allowed to stir at room temperature for 12 h. The crude reaction mixture was purified by flash column chromatography SiO 20 EtOAc in hexane then 1 3 MeOH in CHCl to provide Boc protected bisindenoisoquinoline 16a 0.72 g 48 as purple solid mp 120 122 C. H NMR CDCl 8.64 d J 8.3 Hz 1H 8.24 d J 5.7 Hz 1H 7.94 s 1H 7.67 t J 7.4 Hz 1H 7.58 s 1H 7.56 s 1H 7.42 7.34 m 5H 6.99 s 1H 6.05 s 2H 4.49 bs 2H 4.40 bs 2H 4.01 s 3H 3.92 s 3H 3.45 bs 4H 3.29 bs 4H 2.10 bs 4H 1.87 m 2H 1.42 s 18H ESIMS m z rel intensity 953 MH 30 853 MH Boc 100 . Anal. Calcd for CHNO.0.9CHCl C 62.18 H 5.41 N 5.28. Found C 62.08 H 5.36 N 5.15.

1 3 6 3 Amino 1 propyl 5 6 dihydro 2 3 dimethoxy 8 9 methylenedioxy 5 11 dioxo 11H indeno 1 2 c isoquinoline 5 6 Dihydro 6 3 amino 1 propyl 5 11 dioxo 11 H indeno 1 2 c isoquinolinepropane Bis trifluoroacetate 17a . Boc protected bisindenoisoquinoline 16a 0.55 g 0.58 mmol was dissolved in neat CFCOOH 30 mL and the mixture was stirred at room temperature for 3 h. The reaction mixture was concentrated and the resultant solid was diluted with chloroform 50 mL and filtered through a sintered glass funnel to provide bisindenoisoquinoline 17a 0.43 g 76 as purple solid mp 218 220 C. H NMR DMSO d 8.65 bs 2H 8.53 d J 8.0 Hz 1H 8.17 d J 7.2 Hz 1H 7.80 7.75 m 3H 7.55 7.50 m 4H 7.39 s 1H 7.32 s 1H 7.02 s 1H 6.18 s 2H 4.55 bs 2H 4.45 bs 2H 3.86 s 3H 3.81 s 3H 3.07 2.98 bs 8H 2.14 bs 4H 1.89 bs 2H ESIMS m z rel intensity 753 MH 100 . Anal. Calcd for CHNOF.3.1HO C 55.61 H 4.69 N 5.40. Found C 55.24 H 4.36 N 5.36.

General. Solvents and reagents were purchased from commercial vendors and were used without any further purification. Melting points were determined using capillary tubes with a Mel Temp apparatus and are uncorrected. Infrared spectra are obtained using KBr pellets. IR spectra were recorded using a Perkin Elmer 1600 series or Spectrum One FTIR spectrometer. H NMR spectra were recorded at 300 MHz using a Broker ARX300 spectrometer with a QNP probe. Mass spectral analyses were performed at the Purdue University Campus Wide Mass Spectrometry Center. ESI MS studies were performed using a FinniganMAT LCQ Classic mass spectrometer. EI CI MS studies were performed using a Hewlett Packard Engine or GCQ FinniganMAT mass spectrometer. APCI MS studies were carried out using an Agilent 6320 Ion Trap mass spectrometer. Analytical thin layer chromatography was carried out on Baker flex silica gel IB2 F plates and compounds were visualized with short wavelength UV light and ninhydrin staining. Silica gel flash chromatography was performed using 230 400 mesh silica gel. HPLC analyses were performed on a Waters 1525 binary HPLC pump Waters 2487 dual absorbance detector system using a 5 M Creverse phase column. Compound purities were estimated by reversed phase CHPLC with UV detector at 254 nm and the major peak area of each tested compound was 95 of the combined total peak area. All yields refer to isolated compounds.

2 3 Bromopropoxy 3 methoxy 6 3 morpholinopropyl 5H 1 3 dioxolo 4 5 5 6 indeno 1 2 c isoquinoline 5 12 6H dione 19 . A solution of compound 18 0.100 g 0.216 mmol in DMF 6 mL Nagarajan et al. 2003 46 5712 5724 was treated with sodium hydride 0.011 g 2.16 mmol . After 10 min 1 3 dibromopropane was added. The mixture was stirred at room temperature for 3 h. The mixture was diluted to a volume of 200 mL with CHCl washed with HO 2 50 mL and saturated aq NaCl 50 mL dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and concentrated. The residue was purified by flash column chromatography SiO 40 g eluting with a gradient of 1 MeOH in CHCl to yield compound 19 as a solid 0.071 g 56 mp 197 199 C. IR film 3434 2102 1638 1498 1304 1115 1032 cm H NMR CDCl 8.02 s 1H 7.62 s 1H 7.38 s 1H 7.04 s 1H 6.15 s 2H 5.58 5.37 m 2H 4.79 4.77 d J 5.1 Hz 2H 4.69 4.52 t J 8.4 Hz 2H 3.97 s 3H 3.77 s 4H 2.55 s 6H 2.02 s 2H 1.33 s 2H ESIMS m z 585 587 MH 505 MH HBr HRESIMS m z 585.1236 MH calcd for CHBrNO585.1243.

2 Allyloxy 3 methoxy 6 3 morpholinopropyl 5H 1 3 dioxolo 4 5 5 6 indeno 1 2 c isoquinoline 5 12 6H dione 20 . Column chromatography of the mixture described above also yielded the side product 20 as a solid 0.013 g 10 mp 199 200 C. dec . IR film 2936 1749 1698 1651 1304 1034 786 cm H NMR CDCl 8.01 s 1H 7.61 s 1H 7.37 s 1H 7.03 s 1H 6.08 s 3H 5.53 5.40 m 2H 4.79 4.77 d J 5.7 Hz 2H 4.51 4.45 t J 7.5 Hz 2H 3.97 s 3H 3.77 s 4H 2.54 s 6H 2.01 s 2H ESIMS m z 505 MH HRESIMS m z 505.1967 MH calcd for CHNO505.1975. HPLC purity 97.57 C 18 reverse phase MeOH HO 90 10 .

2 3 Azidopropoxy 3 methoxy 6 3 morpholinopropyl 5H 1 3 dioxolo 4 5 5 6 indeno 1 2 c isoquinoline 5 12 6H dione 21 . Sodium azide 0.021 g 0.22 mmol and compound 19 0.128 g 0.22 mmol were diluted with DMSO 4 mL and the mixture was heated at 100 C. for 2 h. The mixture was diluted to a volume of 200 mL with CHCl washed with HO 2 60 mL and saturated aq NaCl 50 mL dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and concentrated. The resulting residue was purified by flash column chromatography SiO 40 g eluting with a gradient of 0.5 MeOH in CHCl to yield the product 21 as a solid 0.036 g 60 . The solid was used for next step without further purification. ESIMS m z 548 MH HRESIMS m z 548.2141 MH calcd for CHNO548.2145.

2 3 Aminopropoxy 3 methoxy 6 3 morpholinopropyl 5H 1 3 dioxolo 4 5 5 6 indeno 1 2 c isoquinoline 5 12 6H dione 22 . Triethyl phosphite 0.022 mL 0.183 mmol was added to a solution of the compound 21 0.040 g 0.073 mmol in benzene 4 mL and the mixture was heated at reflux for 24 h. The mixture was diluted to a volume of 200 mL with CHCl washed with HO 2 50 mL and saturated aq NaCl 50 mL dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and concentrated. The resulting residue was purified by flash column chromatography SiO 40 g eluting with a gradient of 0.5 MeOH in CHCl to yield the title compound as a solid. The solid 0.015 g 0.023 mmol was diluted with benzene 4 mL and 2 M HCl in methanol 6 mL was added to the solution. The mixture was heated at reflux for 3 h. The reaction mixture was allowed to cool to room temperature and the precipitate was filtered to provide the desired compound 22 as a solid 0.007 g 58 mp 350 C. IR film 3413 2346 1751 1651 1559 1437 1309 737 cm H NMR DO 6.77 s 1H 6.62 s 1H 6.56 s 1H 6.16 s 1H 5.96 s 2H 4.86 4.82 m 2H 4.01 s 6H 3.78 s 2H 3.67 s 3H 3.32 s 4H 3.24 3.19 t J 7.5 Hz 2H 2.19 2.17 m 4H ESIMS m z 522 MH HRESIMS m z 522.2249 MH called for CHNO522.2246 HPLC purity 95.23 C 18 reverse phase MeOH HO 85 15 .

2 3 Dimethylamino propoxy 3 methoxy 6 3 morpholinopropyl 5H 1 3 dioxolo 4 5 5 6 indeno 1 2 c isoquinoline 5 12 6H dione 23 . Sodium iodide 0.061 g 0.408 mmol and compound 19 0.020 g 0.034 mmol were diluted with dioxane 10 mL and dimethylamine 0.023 mL 0.408 mmol was added dropwise. The mixture was stirred at reflux for 52 h. The mixture was diluted to a volume of 250 mL with CHCl washed with HO 2 50 mL and saturated aq NaCl 50 mL dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and concentrated. The residue was purified by flash column chromatography SiO 40 g eluting first with a gradient of 0.5 MeOH in CHCl and then with 1 MeOH in CHCl to yield the product 23 as a solid 0.009 g 47 mp 176 178 C. dec . IR film 2922 1698 1650 1483 1306 1032 786 cm H NMR CDCl 8.02 s 1H 7.63 s 1H 7.43 s 1H 7.08 s 1H 6.09 s 2H 4.54 4.48 t 8.4 Hz 2H 4.29 4.25 t J 6.3 Hz 2H 3.95 s 3H 3.78 3.74 t J 4.8 Hz 2H 2.57 2.53 m 14H 2.27 s 2H 2.03 2.02 m 2H ESIMS m 550 MH HRESIMS m z 550.2558 MH calcd for CHNO550.2553 HPLC purity 97.57 C 18 reverse phase. MeOH HO 85 15 .

2 3 Ethylamino propoxy 3 methoxy 6 3 morpholinopropyl 5H 1 3 dioxolo 4 5 5 6 indeno 1 2 c isoquinoline 5 12 6H dione 24 . Sodium iodide 0.060 g 0.408 mmol and compound 19 0.020 g 0.034 mmol were diluted with dioxane 8 mL and ethylamine 0.020 mL 0.408 mmol 70 wt. solution in water was added dropwise. The mixture was stirred at reflux for 26 h. The mixture was diluted to a volume of 200 mL with CHCl washed with HO 2 50 mL and saturated aq NaCl 50 mL dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and concentrated. The residue was purified by flash column chromatography SiO 40 g eluting with a gradient of 0.5 MeOH in CHCl to yield the product 24 as a solid 0.009 g 46 mp 187 188 C. dec . IR film 1648 1553 1392 1254 1116 1033 785 cm H NMR CDCl 7.53 s 1H 7.24 s 1H 6.90 s 1H 6.60 s 1H 5.89 s 2H 4.06 s 2H 3.85 s 6H 3.72 s 3H 3.49 3.38 m 4H 3.19 3.12 m 9H 2.25 2.19 m 4H ESIMS m z 550 MH HRESIMS m z 550.2553 MH calcd for CHNO550.2553 HPLC purity 98.36 C 18 reverse phase MeOH HO 80 20 .

3 Methoxy 2 3 morpholinopropoxy 6 3 morpholinopropyl 5H 1 3 dioxolo 4 5 5 6 indeno 1 2 c isoquinoline 5 12 6H diene 25 . Sodium iodide 0.139 g 0.924 mmol and compound 19 0.045 g 0.077 mmol were diluted with dioxane 10 mL and morpholine 0.08 mL 0.924 mmol was added dropwise. The mixture was stirred at reflux for 24 h. The mixture was diluted to a volume of 200 mL with CHCl washed with HO 2 60 mL and saturated aq NaCl 50 mL dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and concentrated. The residue was purified by flash column chromatography SiO 40 g eluting first with a gradient of 0.5 MeOH in CHCl and then with 1 MeOH in CHCl to yield the product 25 as a solid 0.018 g 41 mp 188 189 C. dec . IR film 2956 1869 1749 1650 1508 1307 1032 865 cm H NMR CDCl 7.99 s 1H 7.61 s 1H 7.39 s 1H 7.04 s 1H 6.08 s 2H 4.64 4.51 t J 7.5 Hz 2H 4.28 4.24 t J 6.6 Hz 2H 3.95 s 3H 3.76 s 8H 2.53 s 12H 2.15 2.11 t J 6.3 Hz 2H 2.01 s 2H ESIMS m z 592 MH HRESIMS m z 592.2664 MH calcd for CHNO592.2659 HPLC purity 95.38 C 18 reverse phase MeOH HO 85 15 .

3 Methoxy 2 3 4 methylpiperazin 1 yl propoxy 6 3 morpholinopropyl 5H 1 3 dioxolo 4 5 5 6 indeno 1 2 c isoquinoline 5 12 6H diene 26 . Sodium iodide 0.061 g 0.408 mmol and compound 14 0.020 g 0.034 mmol were diluted with dioxane 5 mL and N methyl piperazine 0.041 mL 0.408 mmol was added dropwise. The mixture was stirred at reflux for 24 h. The mixture was diluted to a volume of 200 mL with CHCl washed with HO 2 50 mL and saturated aq NaCl 50 mL dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and concentrated. The residue was purified by flash column chromatography SiO 40 g eluting first with a gradient of 0.5 MeOH in CHCl and then with 3 MeOH in CHCl to yield the product 26 as a solid 0.010 g 49 mp 181 183 C. dec . IR film 2924 1870 1650 1508 1307 1032 868 cm H NMR CDCl 8.01 s 1H 7.62 s 1H 7.42 s 1H 7.06 s 1H 6.09 s 2H 4.53 4.47 t J 8.4 Hz 2H 4.28 4.23 t J 6.6 Hz 2H 3.95 s 3H 3.77 3.74 t J 4.5 Hz 2H 2.62 2.53 m 16H 2.35 s 3H 2.13 2.06 m 2H 2.05 2.00 m 2H ESIMS m z 605 MH HRESIMS m z 605.2986 MH calcd for CHNO605.2975 HPLC purity 100 C 18 reverse phase MeOH HO 90 10 .

3 Methoxy 6 3 morpholinopropyl 2 3 piperidin 1 yl propoxy 5H 1 3 dioxolo 4 5 5 6 indeno 1 2 c isoquinoline 5 12 6H dione 27 . 1 3 chloropropyl piperidine hydrochloride 214 mg 1.08 mmol and KCO 298 mg 2.16 mmol were added to a DMF 5 mL solution of compound 18 0.100 g 0.216 mmol . The mixture was heated at 90 C. for 23 h. The mixture was diluted to a volume of 300 mL with CHCl washed with HO 2 80 mL and saturated aq NaCl 80 mL dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and concentrated. The residue was purified by flash column chromatography SiO 40 g eluting with a gradient of 0.25 MeOH in CHCl to yield the product 27 as a solid 0.072 g 58 mp 156 157 C. dec . IR film 3399 2091 1645 1392 1305 cm H NMR CDCl 7.99 s 1H 7.60 s 1H 7.39 s 1H 7.04 s 1H 6.08 s 2H 4.51 4.46 t J 7.8 Hz 2H 4.25 4.21 t J 6.6 Hz 2H 3.95 s 3H 3.77 3.74 m 4H 2.58 2.46 m 12H 2.18 2.09 m 2H 2.04 1.95 m 2H 1.61 1.58 m 4H 1.46 1.44 m 2H ESIMS m z 590 MH HRESIMS m z 590.2859 MH calcd for CHNO590.2866 HPLC purity 95.88 C 18 reverse phase MeOH HO 95 05 .

3 Methoxy 6 3 morpholinopropyl 2 3 pyrrolidin 1 yl propoxy 5H 1 3 dioxolo 4 5 5 6 indeno 1 2 c isoquinoline 5 12 6H dione 28 . 1 3 chloropropyl piperidine hydrochloride 158 mg 0.86 mmol and KCO 237 mg 1.72 mmol were added to a DMF 5 mL solution of compound 18 0.80 g 0.172 mmol . The mixture was heated at 90 C. for 19 h. The mixture was diluted to a volume of 300 mL with CHCl washed with HO 2 80 mL and saturated aq NaCl 80 mL dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and concentrated. The residue was purified by flash column chromatography SiO 40 g eluting with a gradient of 0.25 MeOH in CHCl to yield the product 28 as a solid 0.051 g 55 mp 151 152 C. dec . IR film 3418 2936 2119 1660 1392 1225 1105 1063 cm 8.02 s 1H 7.63 s 1H 7.42 s 1H 7.07 s 1H 6.09 s 2H 4.52 4.48 t J 8.1 Hz 2H 4.29 4.24 t J 6.6 Hz 2H 3.95 s 3H 3.77 3.74 t J 4.5 Hz 2H 2.80 2.77 m 2H 2.70 s 2H 2.57 2.53 m 6H 2.25 2.20 m 2H 2.03 1.98 m 2H 1.87 s 6H ESIMS m z 576 MH HRESIMS m z 576.2705 MH calcd for CHNO576.2710 HPLC purity 96.29 C 18 reverse phase MeOH HO 80 20 .

Methyl 2 3 Methoxy 6 3 morpholinopropyl 5 12 dioxo 6 12 dihydro 5H 1 3 dioxolo 4 5 5 6 indeno 1 2 c isoquinolin 2 yl oxy acetate 29 . Sodium hydride 0.067 g 2.8 mmol and compound 18 0.130 g 0.28 mmol were diluted with DMF 8 mL and methyl bromoacetate 0.106 ml 1.12 mmol was added dropwise. The mixture was stirred at room temperature for 7 h. The mixture was diluted to a volume of 250 mL with CHCl washed with HO 2 60 mL and saturated aq NaCl 50 mL dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and concentrated. The residue was purified by flash column chromatography SiO 40 g eluting with a gradient of 0.5 MeOH in CHCl to yield the product 29 as a solid 0.077 g 51 mp 226 227 C. IR film 2345 1869 1749 1650 1508 1031 737 cm H NMR CDCl 7.91 s 1H 7.65 s 1H 7.40 s 1H 7.04 s 1H 6.09 s 2H 4.87 s 2H 4.52 4.47 t J 7.2 Hz 2H 3.98 s 3H 3.86 s 3H 3.78 s 4H 2.54 s 6H 2.01 s 2H ESIMS m z 537 MH HRESIMS m z 537.1875 MH calcd for CHNO537.1873 HPLC purity 96.60 C 18 reverse phase MeOH HO 90 10 .

2 12 Hydroxy 3 methoxy 6 3 morpholinopropyl 5 oxo 6 12 dihydro 5H 1 3 dioxolo 4 5 5 6 indeno 1 2 c isoquinolin 2 yl oxy acetohydrazide 31 . Hydrazine 0.028 ml 0.056 mmol and compound 18 0.015 g 0.028 mmol were diluted with EtOH 10 mL and the mixture was heated at reflux for 16 h. The precipitate obtained was washed with hexane 10 mL and ether 10 mL to yield the product 31 as a light yellow solid 0.006 g 40 266 268 C. IR film 2365 1869 1773 1648 1508 1032 738 cm H NMR CDCl 9.30 s 1H 7.62 s 1H 7.45 s 1H 7.36 s 1H 7.21 s 1H 6.10 s 2H 5.34 s 2H 4.61 s 2H 4.48 s 2H 3.88 s 3H 3.61 s 4H 2.49 m 6H 1.96 m 2H ESIMS m z 539 MH HRESIMS m z 539.2146 MH calcd for CHNO539.2142 HPLC purity 95.19 C 18 reverse phase MeOH HO 85 15 .

COMPARE screening. The compounds described herein were examined for antiproliferative activity against the human cancer cell lines in the National Cancer Institute screen COMPARE screening in which the activity of each compound was evaluated with approximately 55 different cancer cell lines of diverse tumor origins. The GI50 values i.e. the concentration causing 50 growth inhibition obtained with selected cell lines along with the mean graph midpoint MGM values are summarized in Table 1 and Table 2 and provide a means of comparison of the antiproliferative activity of the compounds described herein with that of other compounds including camptothecin S 1 oracin S 2 and or 5 6 dihyro 6 3 amino 1 propyl 5 11 dioxo 11H indeno 1 2 c isoquinoline S 3 . The MGM is based on a calculation of the average GI50 for all of the cell lines tested approximately 55 in which GI50 values below and above the test range 10to 10molar are taken as the minimum 10molar and maximum 10molar drug concentrations used in the screening test. Therefore the MGM value represents an overall assessment of toxicity of the compound across numerous cell lines. The results of topoisomerase I DNA cleavage experiments are expressed semiquantitatively and provide a means of comparison with the biological activity of other compounds including camptothecin S 1 oracin S 2 and or 5 6 dihyro 6 3 amino 1 propyl 5 11 dioxo 11H indeno 1 2 c isoquinoline S 3 .

Hollow Fiber Activity. Several of the more active indenoisoquinoline analogs 5p 5q 5s 5v and 5w and several of the most active bisindenoisoquinoline analogs 14d 14g 14h and 14i were evaluated as anticancer agents in an in vivo animal model in which polyvinylidene fluoride PVDF hollow fibers containing various cancer cell cultures were implanted intraperitoneally IP and subcutaneously SC into athymic nude mice and compounds were administered by the IP route. The effects of the compounds on the reduction of viable cancer cell mass compared to those of controls were determined. Each compound was tested in the hollow fiber assay against a panel of twelve human tumor cell lines as described previously see Hollingshead M. Plowman J. Alley M. Mayo J. Sausville E. The Hollow Fiber Assay. 1999 54 109 120 and Plowman J. Camalier R. Alley M. Sausville E. Schepartz S. 1999 54 121 135 the disclosures of which are hereby incorporated by reference. The compounds were solubilized in 10 DMSO in saline Tween 80 and administered intraperitoneally once daily for a total of four doses at each of two dose levels. The two doses were selected based on single dose toxicity studies for each derivative. A score of 2 was assigned each time the compound produced a 50 or greater reduction in viable cell mass compared to vehicle treated controls. The score for each compound was summed for the intraperitoneal fibers and the subcutaneous fibers to provide the total score for each derivative as shown in Table 3 and Table 4. For comparative purposes the score for the clinically used anticancer drug paclitaxel is provided.

Induction of DNA cleavage. The compounds described herein may be examined for induction of DNA cleavage in the 3 end labeled PvuII HindIII fragment of pBluescript SK phagemid DNA in the presence of top1 see Kohlhagen et al. Protein Linked DNA Strand Breaks Induced by NSC 314622 a Novel Noncamptothecin Topoisomerase I Poison 1998 54 50 58 . The cleavage patterns for the compounds described herein can be determined along with those of comparative compounds NSC 314622 A see Kohlhagen et al. Protein Linked DNA Strand Breaks Induced by NSC 314622 a Novel Noncamptothecin Topoisomerase I Poison 1998 54 50 58 camptothecin B CPT and NSC 706744 C MJ III 65 see Cushman et al. Synthesis of New Indeno 1 2 c isoquinolines Cytotoxic Non Camptothecin Topoisomerase I Inhibitors 2000 43 3688 3698 and Antony et al. Differential Induction of Topoisomerase I DNA Cleavage Complexes by the Indenoisoquinoline MJ III 65 NSC 706744 and Camptothecin Base Sequence Analysis and Activity against Camptothecin Resistant Topoisomerase I 2003 63 7428 7435 .

Topoisomerase I Mediated DNA Cleavage Reactions A . Using 3 End labeled 161 BP Plasmid DNA. The 161 bp fragment from pBluescript SK phagemid DNA Stratagene La Jolla Calif. is cleaved with the restriction endonuclease Pvu II and Hind III New England Biolabs Beverly Mass. in supplied NE buffer 2 10 L reactions for 1 h at 37 C. separated by electrophoresis in a 1 agarose gel made in 1 TBE buffer. The 161 bp fragment is eluted from the gel slice centrilutor by Amicon and concentrated in a centricon 50 centrifugal concentrator Amicon Beverly Mass. . Approximately 200 ng of the fragment is 3 end labeled at the Hind III site by fill in reaction with alpha P dCTP and 0.5 mM dATP dGTP and dTTP in React 2 buffer 50 mM Tris HCl pH 8.0 100 mM MgCl 50 mM NaCl with 0.5 units of DNA polymerase I Klenow fragment . Labeling reactions are followed by phenol chloroform extraction and ethanol precipitation. The resulting 161 bp 3 endlabeled DNA fragment is resuspended in water. Aliquots approximately 50 000 dpm reaction are incubated with topoisomerase I at 30 C. for 15 mM in the presence the compounds described herein. Reactions are terminated by adding 0.5 SDS. After ethanol precipitation the samples are resuspended in loading buffer 80 formamide 10 mM sodium hydroxide 1 mM sodium EDTA 0.1 xylene cyanol and 0.1 bromophenol blue pH 8.0 and separated in a denaturing gel 16 polyacrylamide 7 M urea run at 51 C. The gel is dried and visualized by using a Phosphoimager and ImageQuant software Molecular Dynamics Sunnyvale Calif. .

Topoisomerase II Mediated DNA Cleavage Assays. Using 5 End labeled Human C myc DNA. A 403 base pair DNA fragment of the human c myc gene from the junction between the first intron and the first exon is prepared by PCR between positions 2671 and 3073 using the a sense primer oligonucleotide and an antisense primer oligonucleotide as described by Cushman et al. in U.S. Pat. No. 6 509 344. Single end labeling of these DNA fragments is obtained by 5 end labeling of the adequate primer oligonucleotide. Approximately 0.1 g of the human c myc DNA that had been restricted by XhoI and XbaI is used as template for PCR. The 5 end labeled DNA fragments are equilibrated with or without a drug in 1 dimethyl sulfoxide 10 mM Tris HCl pH 7.5 50 mM KCl 5 mM MgCl 2 mM dithiothreitol 0.1 mM NaEDTA 1 mM ATP and 15 g mL bovine serum albumin for 5 min before addition of purified human topoisomerase II 40 70 ng in a 10 L final reaction volume. The reactions are performed at 37 C. for 30 min and thereafter stopped by adding 1 sodium dodecyl sulfate SDS and 0.4 mg mL proteinase K final concentrations followed by an additional incubation at 50 C. for 30 min. Samples are ethanol precipitated before separation of the topoisomerase II cleaved fragments on denaturing polyacrylamide gels. The sequencing gels are made of 7 polyacrylamide in 1 TBE buffer 90 mM Tris borate 2 mM EDTA pH 8.3 . Electrophoresis is performed at 2500 V 60 W for 2 5 h. The gels were dried and visualized using a Phosphoimager and ImageQuant software.

DNA Cleavage Semiquantitative Analysis. One of the most abundant cleavage products see Antony et al. Differential Induction of Topoisomerase I DNA Cleavage Complexes by the indenoisoquinoline MJ III 65 NSC 706744 and Camptothecin Base Sequence Analysis and Activity against Camptothecin Resistant Topoisomerase I 2003 63 7428 7435 is chosen for semiquantitation using ImageQuant TL v2003.3. The rubberband baseline correction is applied with hand detection sensitivity set at 90. In the case of the compounds described herein the absolute density value for the band corresponding to the above product is compared to the value for the NSC 314622 A . The ratio of the band density observed for the compounds described herein to the NSC 314622 band is multiplied by 100 to obtain percentages. Assignments are performed as follows 0 25 0 25 75 75 175 175 325 camptothecin .

SV40 DNA Unwinding Assay. Reaction mixtures 10 L final volume contain 0.3 g supercoiled SV40 DNA in reaction buffer 10 mM Tris HCl pH 7.5 50 mM KCl 5 mM MgCl 0.1 mM EDTA 15 g mL bovine serum albumin and 10 units of purified calf thymus topoisomerase I. Reactions are performed at 37 C. for 30 min and terminated by the addition of 0.5 SDS and then 1.1 L of 10 loading buffer 20 Ficol 400 0.1 M NaEDTA pH 8 1.0 SDS 0.25 Bromophenol Blue is then added and reaction mixtures are loaded onto a 1 agarose gel made in 1 TBE buffer. After electrophoresis DNA bands are stained in 10 g mL of ethidium bromide and visualized by transillumination with UV light 300 nm .

Additional details regarding the biological evaluation of the compounds described herein may be found in co pending PCT US2005 008491 the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference.

Human recombinant Top1 was purified from baculovirus as described in Bailly C. 2000 7 39 58. DNA cleavage reactions were prepared as previously reported with the exception of the DNA substrate in Saltz et al. 1997 2 402 409. Briefly a 117 bp DNA oligonucleotide Integrated DNA Technologies encompassing the previously identified Top1 cleavage sites in the 161 bp fragment from pBluescript SK phagemid DNA was employed. This 117 bp oligonucleotide contains a single 5 cytosine overhang which was 3 end labeled by fill in reaction with P dGTP in React 2 buffer 50 mM Tris HCl pH 8.0 100 mM MgCl 50 mM NaCl and 0.5 unit of DNA polymerase I Klenow fragment New England BioLabs . Unincorporated dGTP was removed using mini Quick Spin DNA columns Roche Indianapolis Ind. and the eluate containing the 3 end labeled DNA substrate was collected. Approximately 2 nM radiolabeled DNA substrate was incubated with recombinant Top1 in 20 L of reaction buffer 10 mM Tris HCl pH 7.5 50 mM KCl 5 mM MgCl 0.1 mM EDTA and 15 g mL BSA at 25 C. for 20 min in the presence of various concentrations of compounds. The reactions were terminated by adding SDS 0.5 final concentration followed by the addition of two volumes of loading dye 80 formamide 10 mM sodium hydroxide 1 mM sodium EDTA 0.1 xylene cyanol and 0.1 bromphenol blue . Aliquots of each reaction mixture were subjected to 20 denaturing PAGE. Gels were dried and visualized using a phosphoimager and ImageQuant software Molecular Dynamics . For simplicity cleavage sites were numbered as previously described in the 161 bp fragment.

A 5 P labeled single stranded DNA oligonucleotide containing a 3 phosphotyrosine N14Y was generated as described by Dexheimer et al. 2009 52 7122 7131 . The DNA substrate was then incubated with 5 pM recombinant TDP1 in the absence or presence of inhibitor for 15 min at room temperature in a buffer containing 50 mM Tris HCl pH 7.5 80 mM KCl 2 mM EDTA 1 mM DTT 40 g ml BSA and 0.01 Tween 20. Reactions were terminated by the addition of 1 volume of gel loading buffer 99.5 v v formamide 5 mM EDTA 0.01 w v xylene cyanol and 0.01 w v bromophenol blue . Samples were subjected to a 16 denaturing PAGE and gels were exposed after drying to a PhosphorImager screen GE Healthcare . Gel images were scanned using a Typhoon 8600 GE Healthcare and densitometric analyses were performed using the ImageQuant software GE Healthcare .

The Top1 crystal structure for docking was prepared and the docking protocol was validated as previously described Nagarajan M. et al. 2003 46 5712 5724 . The ternary complex ligand centroid coordinates for docking were defined using the ligand in the Top1 DNA MJ238 crystal structure PDB code 1SC7 as the center of the binding pocket x 21.3419 y 3.9888 z 28.2163 . The ligand was then deleted. Indenoisoquinolines to be modeled were constructed in SYBYL. Atom types were assigned using SYBYL atom typing. Hydrogens were added and the ligands were minimized by conjugate gradient method using the MMFF94s force field with MMFF94 charges a distance dependent dielectric function and a 0.01 kcal mol energy gradient convergence criterion. Each ligand was docked into the mutant crystal structure using GOLD 3.2 with default parameters and the coordinates were defined by the crystal structure as described above. The top four poses for each ligand were examined. The highest ranked poses for these ligands were merged into the crystal structure and the entire complex was subsequently subjected to minimization using a standard Powell method the MMFF94s force field and MMFF94 charges a distance dependent dielectric function and a 0.05 kcal mol energy gradient convergence criterion. During the energy minimization the ligand and a 7 sphere surrounding the ligands were allowed to move while the structures outside this sphere were frozen in an aggregate.

The TDP1 crystal structure PDB 1 REF was prepared by removing one of the monomers along with all crystallized waters the polydeoxyribonucleotide 5 D AP GP TP T 3 the Top1 derived peptide residues 720 727 mutation L724Y and all metal ions. The Lys265 Lys495 and His493 residues were protonated. Missing hydrogens were added as needed. GOLD docking was performed using the centroid x 7.194 y 52.407 z 0.704. The hydrogen bond length was set to 4 while the van der Waals parameter was set to 10 . The top ligand binding pose highest GOLD score was selected and merged with the prepared protein. The ligand was surrounded by a sphere with a 12 radius and energy minimized by the conjugate gradient method using the MMFF94s force field and MMFF94 charges with Sybyl software. The calculation was terminated when the gradient reached a value of 0.05 kcal mol .

A molecular docking study was performed to guide the structural modification of the indenoisoquinolines and to help understand the Top1 inhibition results. The energy minimized structure of the morpholine derivative 18 Scheme 8 was docked into the crystal structure PDB 1SC7 of a Top1 DNA cleavage site with GOLD using the centroid coordinates of the indenoisoquinoline ligand. The energy minimized top ranked GOLD pose of compound 18 in ternary complex with DNA and Top1 is displayed in . Compound 18 intercalates readily at the DNA cleavage site between the 1 and 1 base pairs. Rings A and B stack with the scissile strand bases while rings C and D stack with the noncleaved strand bases. The carbonyl group on the C ring forms a hydrogen bond to a nitrogen of the Arg364 side chain with an N O distance of 2.5 which is an essential contact for the Top1 inhibitory activity. It is worth mentioning that Asp533 is also an important residue known to be required for enzyme sensitivity to camptothecin. The X ray crystal structure of the ternary campthothecin Top1 DNA complex indicates that camptothecin intercalates at the site of DNA cleavage and forms two hydrogen bonds with the active site. One hydrogen bond in the camptothecin ternary complex is from a nitrogen atom of Arg364 to a free electron pair of the B ring N1 of camptothecin N N distance 2.9 the other interaction is a hydrogen bond between C20 hydroxyl and the oxygen atom of Asp533 O O distance 3.4 . In the present molecular docking study the calculated distance between the 2 position oxygen atom of compound 18 and the carbonyl group of Asp533 is 4.7 . The docking pose suggests that aminoalkyl substituents attached to O 2 next to the cleaved DNA strand could be used to target the carboxylate of Asp533. Therefore a series of O 2 indenoisoquinoline derivatives were designed and synthesized with 2 OH indenoisoquinoline 18 as the starting material.

All of the new indenoisoquinoline derivatives with C 2 side chains were tested in Top1 mediated DNA cleavage assays. For this purpose a P 3 end labeled 117 bp DNA fragment was incubated with Top1 and four 10 fold dilutions starting from 100 M of a tested compound. The DNA fragments were separated on 20 PAGE denaturing gels. The Top1 inhibitory activities were assigned on the basis of the visual inspection of the number and intensities of the gel bands corresponding to Top1 mediated DNA cleavage fragments. The results of this assay are designated relative to the Top1 inhibitory activity of compounds 32 and 33 and expressed in semiquantitative fashion 0 no detectable activity weak activity similar activity to compound 33 greater activity than 33 equipotent to 32. Ambiguous scores e.g. between two values are designated with parentheses e.g. would be between and .

As shown in Table 5 compound 22 which has an aminopropyl side chain expressed low Top1 inhibitory activity at the 0 level. Interestingly after conversion of the primary amine to a dimethyamine the observed Top1 inhibitory activity increased from 0 for 22 to for 23. A similar change was observed with the ethylaminopropyl compound 24 which displayed improved Top1 inhibitory activity relative to 22 at the level. Introduction of a morpholine at the end of the propyl chain yielded compound 25 which was also found to be a promising Top1 inhibitor with activity at the level. Subsequently N methylpiperazine piperidine and pyrrolidine were also introduced to the end of the propyl chain and the corresponding compounds 26 27 and 28 displayed good Top1 inhibitory activity at the and levels respectively. Compounds 20 29 and 31 which lack aminopropyl side chain structures were in general found to be more moderate Top1 inhibitors with or activity. The Top1 inhibitory activity of the primary amine 22 is low but the activity was improved after conversion of the primary amine to a dimethylamine or to other cyclic amines. The extra steric bulk around the nitrogen may help position the protonated nitrogen for binding to the Asp533 carboxylate. The Top1 mediated DNA fragmentation patterns produced by camptothecin indenoisoquinoline 34 and compounds 23 28 are presented in . The sequence preferences for trapping the Top1 DNA cleavage complexes by these indenoisoquinolines are similar to each other but the pattern is different from camptothecin indicating that the indenoisoquinolines target the genome differently from camptothecin. Interestingly as is evident from the gel these indenoisoquinolines suppress DNA cleavage at a high concentration of 100 M.

According to the DNA unwinding studies Kiselev et al. 2011 54 6106 6116 this result can be attributed to the ability of these indenoisoquinolines to intercalate into free DNA at high drug concentrations thus suppressing DNA cleavage by Top1 by making the DNA a poorer Top1 substrate. To rationalize the effect of the introduction of aminopropyl side chains on the O 2 position of indenoisoquinolines on their ability to improve the Top1 inhibitory activity compound 25 was selected for a molecular docking study. As shown in compound 25 hypothetically intercalates at the site of DNA cleavage between the 1 and 1 base pairs. Rings A and B stack with the scissile strand bases while rings C and D stack with the noncleaved strand bases which is consistent with the calculated binding mode of compound 18. The carbonyl group on the C ring the minor DNA groove forms a hydrogen bond with a nitrogen of the Arg364 side chain with an O N distance of 2.5 and as expected there is also a hydrogen bond between the N atom in the morpholine ring in the major DNA groove and the Asp533 side chain with a distance of 3.1 which may contribute to the slightly improved Top1 inhibitory activity of these O 2 modified indenoisoquinolines relative to the phenol 18.

The TDP1 inhibitory activities of the O 2 substituented indenoisoquinolines were measured by determining their abilities to inhibit the hydrolysis of the phosphodiester linkage between tyrosine and the 3 end of a DNA oligonucleotide substrate and thus prevent the generation of an oligonucleotide with a free 3 phosphate N14P Scheme 12 . Therefore the disappearance of the gel band for N14P indicates TDP1 inhibition. The TDP1 inhibitory activities of O 2 modified indenoisoquinolines are displayed in Table 5 and a representative gel demonstrating dose dependent TDP1 inhibition is depicted in . TDP1 ICwas determined in duplicate using a semiquantitative scale 0 IC 111 M ICbetween 37 and 111 M ICbetween 12 and 37 M ICbetween 1 and 12 M IC

From Table 5 and it is clear that compounds 23 and 24 which have dimethyamine or ethylamine at the end of the propyl side chain display good TDP1 inhibitory activity with potency. Compounds 27 and 28 with six or five membered rings on the end of the propyl side chain also exhibit good inhibition of TDP1 with and activity respectively. However when the 4 position of the six membered ring was substituted with heteroatom oxygen for compound 25 nitrogen for compound 26 no TDP1 inhibitory activity was observed. The structure activity relationships correlate well with the molecular docking studies. According to the previous report on TDP1 Dexheimer et al. 2008 8 381 389 two specific regions of the enzyme are important for substrate binding which have been termed the catalytic region and the hydrophobic region. The TDP1 catalytic region possesses two lysine 265 and 495 and two histidine 263 and 493 residues which are responsible for the stabilization of the negatively charged phosphate backbone of the DNA while the hydrophobic region consists of several residues Ala520 Ala456 Phe259 Met491 Gly260 Tyr261 etc. located at the top of the substrate channel. Compound 27 which has a propyl side chain attached at the terminal end to a piperidine was docked into the active site of the TDP1 crystal structure PDB ID 1RFF using GOLD.

The energy minimized top ranked GOLD pose of compound 27 in the TDP1 active site is displayed in . Compound 27 fits well in the catalytic and hydrophobic regions with four hydrogen bonds. The 2 ether oxygen on the A ring and the 11 carbonyl group on the C ring of compound 27 are calculated to form hydrogen bonds with the catalytic histidine residues 493 and 263 respectively. There are also hypothetical hydrogen bonds calculated between the 11 carbonyl group on the C ring and Asn516 as well as between N atom of the piperidine in the side chain and Ser459. The propyl side chain ending with piperidine in compound 27 occupies the hydrophobic region as expected which provides a reason for the greater TDP1 activity of compounds with three carbon side chains connected to amines with more hydrophobic substituents. For example compounds 23 and 24 which have dimethyamino and ethylamino groups on the end of the propyl side chain exhibit excellent TDP1 activity and compounds 27 and 28 with piperidine and pyrrolidine on the end of the propyl side chain also show promising TDP1 activity. In contrast compounds 25 and 26 which have the less hydrophobic amines N methylpiperazine and morpholine display no TDP1 inhibitory activity.

Accordingly molecular docking studies indicate that the indenoisoquinoline platform present in Top1 inhibitors could be accommodated within the catalytic region in the TDP1 active site and a three carbon side chain at O 2 containing terminal amines bearing hydrophobic substituents could bind in a hydrophobic region of TDP1. This approach was validated by enzyme inhibition assays that demonstrated significant inhibition of both enzymes by compounds 23 24 27 and 28.

Selected compounds were tested for antiproliferative activity in the National Cancer Institute s developmental therapeutics assay 60 cell line screen NCI60 . The cells were incubated with the tested compounds at 100 10 1 0.1 and 0.01 M concentrations for 48 h before treatment with sulforhodamine B dye. Optical densities were recorded and their ratios relative to that of the control were plotted as percentage growth against the log 10 of the tested compound concentrations. The concentration that corresponds to 50 growth inhibition GI is calculated by interpolation between the points located above and below the 50 percentage growth. The results are listed in Table 6.

Many of the new O 2 modified indenoisoquinolines display significant potencies against various cell lines with GI s in the low micromolar compounds 27 and 29 or submicromolar range compounds 20 22 and 25 . Compounds 25 27 and 28 which have potent inhibitory against Top1 also have cytotoxicities with mean graph midpoint MGM values ranging from 1.575 0.233 to 0.24 0.028 M. Although the MGM values for compounds 20 22 25 27 28 and 29 do not differ greatly in general there is an intriguing lack of correlation between the rank order of observed cytotoxicities and inhibition of the two enzymes studied. For example the indenoisoquinoline 20 is the most cytotoxic compound but it has low Top1 inhibitory activity and no detectable TDP1 inhibitory activity. On the other hand the cytotoxicity of 27 is comparatively low but it has relatively high activity vs. both enzymes. The GIvalues in individual cell lines vary more widely than the MGM values and more significant differences are observed. For example compound 29 is the most cytotoxic of the indenoisoquinolines vs. the lung HOP 62 cell line but it has the lowest overall cytotoxicity as indicated by the MGM value. Therefore the lack of a strong correlation between enzyme inhibition and cytotoxicity is a complicated matter that may be influenced by the particular cell line under investigation as well as differences in cellular penetration distribution within the cell metabolism ejection from the cell and possible off target effects.

