---

title: Intelligently designed user interface based on user behavior
abstract: Systems, apparatuses, and methods for enabling the efficient configuration of a User Interface (UI) for a user so that the configured UI represents the UI elements used most commonly by the user. In one embodiment, the invention may be used by the operator and users of a multi-tenant business data processing platform to permit each user to be associated with a specific configuration of UI elements and capabilities based on that user's typical or most common usage patterns. Further, in one embodiment, information or data that represents the UI configuration associated with a user may be encoded and provided to the multi-tenant business data processing platform in an efficient manner to enable the platform to present the desired UI to that user.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09461972&OS=09461972&RS=09461972
owner: NetSuite Inc.
number: 09461972
owner_city: San Mateo
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150129
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 955 602 entitled Intelligently Designed User Interface Based on User Behavior filed Mar. 19 2014 which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety including Appendix for all purposes.

User interfaces UIs are an important element of many software applications machines devices and processes. A UI sometimes termed a man machine interface permits a user to access and control the capabilities of an application machine device or process by providing a mechanism for the user to interact with the elements or components of the application machine device or process. A UI may permit a user to set certain operating parameters provide input data select certain desired functions for execution specify a data field for data input or specify an output format for data and otherwise configure the operation of the application machine device or process.

Typically a User Interface will have a set of adjustable or configurable features such as a list of selectable entries in a drop down menu selectable functions selectable data formats selectable tabs or other available features. And also typically a user will over time prefer certain UI elements or settings and tend to utilize a UI that is configured a specific way or ways for most of their uses of the related application machine device or process. For example a user may typically enter or request certain data types where those types represent a sub set of the available data types. Similarly a user may regularly utilize only a sub set of the data fields or selectable features that are part of a user interface e.g. a user may only regularly use a sub set of the displayable folders options etc. .

Different users of a system which is used by multiple users may have their own preferred set of UI features that they use regularly. It is possible for a multi user system or platform to have hundreds or thousands of desired UI configurations with each such configuration associated with a different user of the system. This can create inefficiencies because re configuring or personalizing a UI may take time for a user to do and typically a user may not be aware of which UI elements they customarily use or the frequency with which they use certain elements. Further the converse option of leaving a complex UI in a general state may confuse a user or cause them to waste time navigating through the options that are part of the UI.

Conventional approaches to configuring a UI in a personalized i.e. user customized or dependent manner are inefficient and suffer from limitations that make such approaches impractical for some operating environments. For example most methods of providing a customized UI are restricted to use on a specific machine and or are limited in the variety of configurations that may be associated with a specific user. Embodiments of the invention are directed toward solving these and other problems individually and collectively.

The terms invention the invention this invention and the present invention as used herein are intended to refer broadly to all of the subject matter described in this document and to the claims. Statements containing these terms should be understood not to limit the subject matter described herein or to limit the meaning or scope of the claims. Embodiments of the invention covered by this patent are defined by the claims and not by this summary. This summary is a high level overview of various aspects of the invention and introduces some of the concepts that are further described in the Detailed Description section below. This summary is not intended to identify key required or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used in isolation to determine the scope of the claimed subject matter. The subject matter should be understood by reference to appropriate portions of the entire specification of this patent to any or all drawings and to each claim.

Embodiments of the invention are directed to systems apparatuses and methods for enabling the efficient configuration of a User Interface UI for a user so that the configured UI represents the UI elements used most commonly by the user. In one embodiment the invention may be used by the operator and users of a multi tenant business data processing platform to permit each user to be associated with a specific configuration of UI elements and capabilities based on that user s typical or most common usage patterns. Further in one embodiment information or data that represents the UI configuration associated with a user may be encoded and provided to the multi tenant business data processing platform in an efficient manner to enable the platform to present the desired UI to that user.

In one embodiment each configurable element of a user interface is associated with an index or identifying character. For example a form may have a set of data input fields with each field associated with a unique number character or other form of identifier. Each time a user enters data into the form a process captures the fields into which data was entered which may be and typically are a sub set of the available fields . This data can be evaluated to determine which fields of that form are most typically used by that user based on a specified set of criteria such as number of uses variance in fields used most commonly used fields frequency of use etc. . The usage data may then be stored with an identifier of the relevant form and the user.

In another embodiment the elements of a drop down menu the menus provided the UI elements able to be configured or selected etc. may each be associated with a unique identifier. Based on observation or tracking of a user s behavior the UI aspects or elements used or those used most frequently or those satisfying another criterion such as those elements deemed by a manager to be needed and available for a project may be converted to data which is stored with an identifier of the relevant UI display or application and the user. In one embodiment when presented to a user the user interface aspects or elements that are used by that specific user may be sorted or displayed in a drop down list based on their relative frequency of use.

In one embodiment the user interface element usage data may be encoded as a binary number with each of the individual numerals having a value of one or zero and representing the use indicated by a 1 or non use indicated by a 0 of an associated field or UI element thus each field or UI element is associated with a unique position in a string of ones or zeros . In one embodiment the binary number may be converted to its decimal or hexadecimal equivalent and stored in association with the form or UI display or application identifier and user identifier. The decimal or hexadecimal equivalent and associated form or UI display or application identifier and user identifier may then be transferred to a system when the user logs on or accesses some aspect of the system. The system can then interpret the transferred data by decoding the decimal or hexadecimal representation into a corresponding binary one and associating the digits in the binary representation with use or non use of a specific UI element and configure the form or other UI element s based on the transferred data. As noted when displaying the user s UI aspects or elements some may be presented to the user in the form of a drop down list or menu with the items in the list ordered according to relative frequency of use by that user or the relative order of predicted or expected use based on other available information about the user the application the user s most recent tasks etc.

In one embodiment the binary number which represents an encoding of the UI element use data may be converted to another suitable format such as a decimal or hexadecimal number a form of security key for implementing a data payload encryption decryption process . Such a key could be used to provide added security to the application users and may be used for a form of encryption and decryption of the data payload transmitted. In one embodiment such an encryption decryption process may be changed for each use that generates a new security key where that key is available or discoverable at the client as well as server. In this way due to the changing nature of the encoding decoding of UI elements usage binary data security will be enhanced as the method will be more difficult to predict or anticipate. Note that the key may be used for the purposes of encrypting and decrypting not only the data representing the UI elements but also the new encoded representation of those UI elements usage such as the binary decimal hexadecimal number to increase the security of the data transfer. The key could be transferred between the user s terminal and a server by a suitable means such as being contained in a separate message or determined by each element in accordance with a pre determined list or method.

In one embodiment the invention is directed to a method of configuring a user interface for a user where the method includes 

processing the usage data to determine a set of user interface elements to present to the user at a later time 

converting the determined set of user interface elements to present to the user at a later time into a current representation 

storing data representing the current key value in a data storage element accessible by the user s client device 

providing data representing the current representation the current key value the user and the user interface to a remote data processing element 

at a later time sending a request to access the user interface for the user to the remote data processing element 

receiving the request from the user to access the user interface at the remote data processing element 

operating the remote data processing element to access the current representation and the current key value associated with the user 

providing data representing the encrypted current representation the user and the user interface to the client device 

decrypting the data representing the encrypted current representation using the current key value and

In another embodiment the invention is directed to an apparatus for configuring a user interface for a user where the apparatus includes 

a data storage element in which the set of instructions are stored wherein when executed by the processor the set of instructions cause the apparatus to

In another embodiment the invention is directed to a multi tenant data processing system where the system includes 

one or more business related data processing applications installed in the system and accessible by a plurality of tenants of the multi tenant data processing system 

a data storage element accessible by a plurality of tenants of the multi tenant data processing system 

a processor programmed with a set of instructions wherein when executed by the processor the instructions cause the system to

Other objects and advantages of the present invention will be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art upon review of the detailed description of the present invention and the included figures.

Note that the same numbers are used throughout the disclosure and figures to reference like components and features.

The subject matter of embodiments of the present invention is described here with specificity to meet statutory requirements but this description is not necessarily intended to limit the scope of the claims. The claimed subject matter may be embodied in other ways may include different elements or steps and may be used in conjunction with other existing or future technologies. This description should not be interpreted as implying any particular order or arrangement among or between various steps or elements except when the order of individual steps or arrangement of elements is explicitly described.

Embodiments of the invention will be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings which form a part hereof and which show by way of illustration exemplary embodiments by which the invention may be practiced. This invention may however be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein rather these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will satisfy the statutory requirements and convey the scope of the invention to those skilled in the art.

Among other things the present invention may be embodied in whole or in part as a system as one or more methods or as one or more devices. Embodiments of the invention may take the form of a hardware implemented embodiment a software implemented embodiment or an embodiment combining software and hardware aspects. For example in some embodiments one or more of the operations functions processes or methods described herein may be implemented by one or more suitable processing elements such as a processor microprocessor CPU controller etc. that are part of a client device server network element or other form of computing or data processing device platform and that are programmed with a set of executable instructions e.g. software instructions where the instructions may be stored in a suitable data storage element. In some embodiments one or more of the operations functions processes or methods described herein may be implemented by a specialized form of hardware such as a programmable gate array application specific integrated circuit ASIC or the like. The following detailed description is therefore not to be taken in a limiting sense.

Embodiments of the present invention are directed to systems apparatuses and methods for enabling the efficient configuration of a User Interface UI for a user so that the configured UI represents the UI elements used most commonly or expected or predicted and possibly required to be used most commonly by the user. In one embodiment the invention may be used by the operator and users of a multi tenant business data processing platform to permit each user to be associated with a specific configuration of UI elements and capabilities based on that user s typical expected predicted or most common usage patterns. Further in one embodiment information or data that represents the UI configuration associated with a user may be encoded and provided to the multi tenant business data processing platform in an efficient and secure manner to enable the platform to present the desired UI to that user. Note that the user may be operating a client device such as a desktop computer laptop computer tablet computer or mobile phone or may be operating a terminal that is part of a networked system where the user is in communication with the business data processing platform. Note also that the user interface may consist of or include text elements graphic elements visual components links tabs menus etc.

For example in one embodiment each configurable element of a user interface may be associated with an index or identifying character e.g. an alphanumeric character color etc. . For example a form may have a set of data input fields with each field associated with a unique number or character that provides an identifier for that field. Each time a user enters data into the form a process captures the fields into which data was entered which may be and typically is a sub set of the available fields . This data capturing process may be executing on a client device e.g. as part of a browser or resident application or on a server platform. For example a counter may be incremented each time the form is used with a separate counter or counters incremented each time data is found modified in a particular field or region. This data can be evaluated to determine which fields of that form are most typically used by that user based on a defined set of criterion such as the number of times each field is used to enter modify data the variance in the fields used a ranking of the most commonly used fields the relative frequency of a field being used etc. . The usage data may then be stored with an identifier of the relevant form and of the user.

In one embodiment this usage data capture can be implemented using a client side JavaScript that gathers the data about each field on the form that is used each time the form is submitted to the server for actual data persistence. This data can be stored separately from the actual form data on the server but associated with the end user profile and preferences. These preferences are then loaded when the end user requests the server to load one of the forms. The usage data may be stored in any suitable format including but not limited to one or more of the following 

After submission of a certain number of forms or another factor such as a number of actions performed by the user a number of data access operations requested a number of application access operations requested etc. the process may generate one or more of a ranking of the frequency of the user s use of each field an output of a decision process indicating a sub set that are most likely to be used an output of a machine learning model that represents a prediction of what fields are likely to be used e.g. based on one or more of the user s identity the day or date the tasks being performed by the user the applications being accessed by the user or any other relevant data or information an indicator of any field that was used at least once an indicator of a field that was never used etc. Note that the element frequency of use value or number of times an element is used data may be modified as desired e.g. boosted increased or decreased for certain elements or combinations of elements to take into account one or more user interface elements that are required to be available to a user required to be used specified by a manager as being desirable to be available etc.

In one embodiment the usage data and or an output of the decision or prediction process may be encoded or represented as a binary number with each of the individual numerals having a value of one or zero and representing the use indicated by a 1 or non use indicated by a 0 of an associated field thus each field or UI element is associated with a unique position in a string of ones or zeros with the value of one or zero indicating that the UI element form field menu item etc. is either to be presented to the user or not presented to the user . As noted the usage data binary number may be subject to further processing filtering etc. to emphasize or deemphasize certain characteristics. For example based on a set of business rules or task descriptions certain form fields may always be provided to the user i.e. represented by a value of 1 while other fields may be hidden or require the user to perform some action in order to be able to access them i.e. represented by a 0 but be subject to access after a user fulfills certain requirements such as a threshold number or percent of uses .

In one embodiment the binary number may be converted to its decimal or hexadecimal equivalent a form of security key and stored in association with the form identifier and a user identifier. The decimal or hexadecimal equivalent and associated form identifier and user identifier may then be accessed by or transferred to a system when the user logs on or accesses some aspect of the system. The system can then interpret the transferred data and configure the form or other UI element s based on the transferred data. This may entail conversion of the decimal or hexadecimal number to its binary equivalent followed by mapping the binary numerals to an index to the fields of the form. This provides information that may be used to determine which fields on that particular form to present to a particular user. As noted this encoding may be used to provide a form of encryption such as by encrypting the payload by either circular left or right shifting the binary bits by n number of places where n is determined by the lowest decimal digit of the shared security key .

As noted in one embodiment the binary number which represents an encoding of the UI element use data may be converted to another suitable format such as a hexadecimal number e.g. to function as a security key . Such a format may be used to provide added security for the application users and may be used as a key to encrypt and decrypt the data transmitted. In one embodiment such an encoding decoding may be changed for each use with a new key that generates a different encryption process or method being made available or discoverable at the client as well as server. In this way due to the changing nature of the encoding decoding key data security will be enhanced as the method used will be more difficult to predict. Similarly a shared key could be used for purposes of encrypting and decrypting the data representing the UI elements or the encoded representation of those elements such as the binary number to increase the security of any data transfer. The key could be transferred between the user s terminal and a server by a suitable means such as being contained in a separate message or determined by each element in accordance with a pre determined list or method.

Although the following example will be described with reference to configuration of the data entry fields of a form and the use of an embodiment of the invention to configure that form as part of providing a user interface to a user of a multi tenant business data processing platform note that embodiments of the invention are not limited to such user interfaces and or operating environments. For example the concepts underlying the invention may be used to identify one or more of the user interface elements menus folders sub folders format display schemes selectable features system settings etc. that are used by a specific user and to store data relating to those user interface aspects. The data may then be processed e.g. by a form of thresholding statistical evaluation or machine learning model and subjected to one or more decision rules business rules etc. to determine which of those user interface elements to provide to that user in the future. One or more of the determined set of user interface elements may then be filtered modified emphasized de emphasized or subject to another process before being encoded or otherwise represented by a string of numbers such as binary numbers. The resulting binary numeral consisting of a string of ones and zeros may then be converted to a decimal number or to another representation having a one to one correspondence to the binary numeral. The decimal or other representation may then be transferred with an identifier of the user interface or user interface template and an identifier of the user to a device software application operating system computer network element apparatus or other component having a configurable user interface. In some embodiments this device software application operating system computer network element apparatus or other component may have multiple users such as the described multi tenant platform or a networked server connected to multiple client terminals with each user then being able to be provided with a personalized customized user interface.

As noted in some embodiments the invention may be implemented in the context of a multi tenant cloud based environment such as a multi tenant business data processing platform typically used to develop and provide services for end users. This exemplary implementation environment will be described with reference to . Note that embodiments of the invention may also be implemented in the context of other computing or operational environments or systems such as for an individual business data processing system a private network used with a plurality of client terminals a remote or on site data processing system another form of client server architecture etc.

Modern computer networks incorporate layers of virtualization so that physically remote computers and computer components can be allocated to a particular task and then reallocated when the task is done. Users sometimes speak in terms of computing clouds because of the way groups of computers and computing components can be formed into units and then be split back into configurable components in response to user demand and because users often never see the computing hardware that ultimately provides the computing services. More recently different types of computing clouds and cloud services have begun emerging.

For the purposes of this description cloud services may be divided broadly into low level services and high level services. Low level cloud services sometimes called raw or commodity services typically provide little more than virtual versions of a newly purchased physical computer system virtual disk storage space virtual processing power an operating system and perhaps a database such as an RDBMS. In contrast high or higher level cloud services typically focus on one or more well defined end user applications such as business oriented applications. Some high level cloud services provide an ability to customize and or extend the functionality of one or more of the end user applications they provide however high level cloud services typically do not provide direct access to low level computing functions.

The ability of business users to access crucial business information has been greatly enhanced by the proliferation of IP based networking together with advances in object oriented Web based programming and browser technology. Using these advances systems have been developed that permit web based access to business information systems thereby allowing a user with a browser and an Internet or intranet connection to view enter or modify business information. For example substantial efforts have been directed to Enterprise Resource Planning ERP systems that integrate the capabilities of several historically separate business computing systems into a common system with a view toward streamlining business processes and increasing efficiencies on a business wide level. By way of example the capabilities or modules of an ERP system may include but are not required to include nor limited to only including accounting order processing time and billing inventory management employee management payroll human resources management and employee calendaring and collaboration as well as reporting and analysis capabilities relating to these functions.

In a related development substantial efforts have also been directed to integrated Customer Relationship Management CRM systems with a view toward obtaining a better understanding of customers enhancing service to existing customers and acquiring new and profitable customers. By way of example the capabilities or modules of a CRM system can include but are not required to include nor limited to only including sales force automation SFA marketing automation contact list management call center support and web based customer support as well as reporting and analysis capabilities relating to these functions. With differing levels of overlap with ERP CRM initiatives and with each other efforts have also been directed toward development of increasingly integrated partner and vendor management systems web store eCommerce systems product lifecycle management PLM systems and supply chain management SCM systems.

The distributed computing service platform which may also be referred to as a multi tenant business data processing platform may include multiple processing tiers including a user interface tier an application server tier and a data storage tier . The user interface tier may maintain multiple user interfaces including graphical user interfaces and or web based interfaces. The user interfaces may include a default user interface for the service to provide access to applications and data for a user or tenant of the service depicted as Service UI in the figure as well as one or more user interfaces that have been specialized customized in accordance with user specific requirements e.g. represented by Tenant A UI . . . Tenant Z UI in the figure and which may be accessed via one or more APIs . The default user interface may include components enabling a tenant to administer the tenant s participation in the functions and capabilities provided by the service platform such as accessing data causing the execution of specific data processing operations etc. Each processing tier shown in the figure may be implemented with a set of computers and or computer components including computer servers and processors and may perform various functions methods processes or operations as determined by the execution of a software application or set of instructions. The data storage tier may include one or more data stores which may include a Service Data store and one or more Tenant Data stores .

Each tenant data store may contain tenant specific data that is used as part of providing a range of tenant specific business services or functions including but not limited to ERP CRM eCommerce Human Resources management payroll etc. Data stores may be implemented with any suitable data storage technology including structured query language SQL based relational database management systems RDBMS .

In accordance with one embodiment of the invention distributed computing service platform may be multi tenant and service platform may be operated by an entity in order to provide multiple tenants with a set of business related applications data storage and functionality. These applications and functionality may include ones that a business uses to manage various aspects of its operations. For example the applications and functionality may include providing web based access to business information systems thereby allowing a user with a browser and an Internet or intranet connection to view enter process or modify certain types of business information.

As noted such business information systems may include an Enterprise Resource Planning ERP system that integrates the capabilities of several historically separate business computing systems into a common system with the intention of streamlining business processes and increasing efficiencies on a business wide level. By way of example the capabilities or modules of an ERP system may include accounting order processing time and billing inventory management employee management payroll and employee calendaring and collaboration as well as reporting and analysis capabilities relating to these functions. Another business information system that may be provided as part of an integrated service platform is an integrated Customer Relationship Management CRM system which is designed to assist in obtaining a better understanding of customers enhance service to existing customers and assist in acquiring new and profitable customers. By way of example the capabilities or modules of a CRM system may include sales force automation SFA marketing automation contact list management call center support and web based customer support as well as reporting and analysis capabilities relating to these functions. In addition to ERP and CRM functions a business information system platform such as element of may also include one or more of an integrated partner and vendor management system eCommerce system e.g. a virtual storefront application or platform product lifecycle management PLM system Human Resources management system which may include medical dental insurance administration payroll etc. or supply chain management SCM system.

Note that both functional advantages and strategic advantages may be gained through the use of an integrated business system comprising ERP CRM and other business capabilities as for example where the integrated business system is integrated with a merchant s eCommerce platform and or web store. For example a customer searching for a particular product can be directed to a merchant s website and presented with a wide array of product and or services from the comfort of their home computer or even from their mobile phone. When a customer initiates an online sales transaction via a browser based interface the integrated business system can process the order update accounts receivable update inventory databases and other ERP based systems and can also automatically update strategic customer information databases and other CRM based systems. These modules and other applications and functionalities may advantageously be integrated and executed by a single code base accessing one or more integrated databases as necessary forming an integrated business management system or platform.

The integrated business system shown in may be hosted on a distributed computing system made up of at least one but typically multiple servers. A server is a physical computer dedicated to run one or more software services intended to serve the needs of the users of other computers in data communication with the server for instance via a public network such as the Internet or a private intranet network. The server and the services it provides may be referred to as the host and the remote computers and the software applications running on the remote computers may be referred to as the clients. Depending on the computing service that a server offers it could be referred to as a database server file server mail server print server web server etc. A web server is most often a combination of hardware and the associated software that helps deliver content typically by hosting a website to client web browsers that access the web server via the Internet.

Rather than build and maintain such an integrated business system themselves a business may utilize systems provided by a third party. Such a third party may implement an integrated business system platform as described above in the context of a multi tenant platform wherein individual instantiations of a single comprehensive integrated business system are provided to a variety of tenants. One advantage to such multi tenant platforms is the ability for each tenant to customize their instantiation of the integrated business system to that tenant s specific business needs as those relate to both its employees and its customers.

For example each tenant may be a business or entity that uses the multi tenant platform to provide business data and functionality to multiple users including employees different levels of management or customers. Some of the multiple users may have distinct roles or responsibilities within the business or entity. As a result such users may have a need or preference to utilize different components of a user interface when performing their respective business functions such as to have certain functional capabilities available or a display of certain interactive elements . Similarly different customers of a tenant may have a need or preference to utilize different components of a user interface when accessing the tenant s website such as for using a feature of an eCommerce site . And both employee users and customer users may desire to configure a user interface to suit their needs when accessing a website or data using a specific type of client device such as a mobile device as compared to a desktop device .

Embodiments of the invention provide a method for enabling a user interface to an application a system a device a network a terminal or another element to be configured in accordance with the user s usage behavior for that interface. Thus in one example embodiment the data entry fields available on a form may be presented to a user in accordance with or in some way based on or derived from that user s previous use of the form so that the fields typically e.g. frequently used are presented while fields typically not used are not presented. This may provide a more efficient data entry format for users of mobile devices or other situations with limited screen landscape. In another use case the user interface elements menus selectable features etc. may be configured in accordance with the business role or responsibilities of the user in order to present the user with the set of features most relevant to their role in a business based on their previous usage of the user interface.

As noted is a diagram illustrating additional details of the elements or components of the multi tenant distributed computing service platform of in which an embodiment of the invention may be implemented. The example architecture includes a user interface layer or tier having one or more user interfaces . Examples of such user interfaces include graphical user interfaces and application programming interfaces APIs . Each user interface may include one or more interface elements . For example users may interact with interface elements in order to access functionality and or data provided by application and or data storage layers of the example architecture. Examples of graphical user interface elements include buttons menus checkboxes drop down lists scrollbars sliders spinners text boxes icons labels progress bars status bars toolbars windows hyperlinks and dialog boxes. Application programming interfaces may be local or remote and may include interface elements such as parameterized procedure calls programmatic objects and messaging protocols.

As described herein embodiments of the invention provide a method for configuring aspects of a user interface such as the data entry fields of a form or a set of interface elements presented to a user employee customer etc. by specifying one or more user interface elements to present to a specified user. The user interface presented may be for a user of a subset of the functionality of the multi tenant platform such as an employee of a business or a customer of a business for an administrator of an account for which the platform provides data storage and data processing capabilities for a user of a mobile device or other client device that interacts with the platform for a user desiring to enter data onto a form or webpage etc.

The application layer may include one or more application modules each having one or more sub modules . Each application module or sub module may correspond to a particular function method process or operation that is implemented by the module or sub module such as a CRM ERP eCommerce function or task . Such function method process or operation may include those used to implement one or more aspects of the inventive system and methods such as for 

The application modules and or sub modules may include any suitable computer executable code or set of instructions e.g. as would be executed by a suitably programmed processor microprocessor or CPU such as computer executable code corresponding to a programming language. For example programming language source code may be compiled into computer executable code. Alternatively or in addition the programming language may be an interpreted programming language such as a scripting language. Each application server e.g. as represented by element of may include each application module. Alternatively different application servers may include different sets of application modules. Such sets may be disjoint or overlapping.

The data storage layer may include one or more data objects each having one or more data object components such as attributes and or behaviors. For example the data objects may correspond to tables of a relational database and the data object components may correspond to columns or fields of such tables. Alternatively or in addition the data objects may correspond to data records having fields and associated services. Alternatively or in addition the data objects may correspond to persistent instances of programmatic data objects such as structures and classes. Each data store in the data storage layer may include each data object. Alternatively different data stores may include different sets of data objects. Such sets may be disjoint or overlapping.

Note that the example computing environments depicted in are not intended to be limiting examples. Alternatively or in addition computing environments in which an embodiment of the invention may be implemented include any suitable system that uses a user interface or data entry element to permit users to interact with a process device or apparatus. This may include for example providing data to accessing data controlling the processing of data or otherwise utilizing data stored in a data storage element e.g. a database . Further example environments in which an embodiment of the invention may be implemented include devices including mobile devices software applications systems apparatuses terminals networks or other configurable components that may be used by multiple users for data entry data processing control of application execution data review etc. and which have user interfaces or user interface components that can be configured to present a personalized or customized interface to a user. Although further examples below may reference the example computing environment depicted in it will be apparent to one of skill in the art that the examples may be adapted for alternate computing devices systems apparatuses processes and environments. Note further that although parts of the description of the invention provided herein refer to a user interface such interfaces may include forms with data entry fields templates web pages or other forms of interfaces that permit data entry selection of one or more desired options etc.

Next the user may interact with the user interface display and by doing so select or otherwise use one or more user interface elements such as buttons drop down menus selectable elements that control some aspect of a device or process etc. and or utilize specific elements such as certain data entry fields in a form certain controls or configurable parameters etc. as suggested by step or stage . A data processing or computing device e.g. the multi tenant data processing platform described herein a networked server etc. that is executing an embodiment of the inventive method will then store data representing the selected and or accessed user interface elements step or stage . This may be performed for example by storing data identifying the user data identifying the user interface e.g. an identifier for the form webpage or interface template and data sufficient to identify the selected and or accessed user interface elements such as a list of identifiers for those elements used a list of all elements and an indicator of whether they were used a chart indicating which elements were used etc. . Such a set of data may be stored for one or more uses of the user interface display by the user. For example in one embodiment such usage data may be collected over a specified period of time or for a certain number of accesses of the interface display by a user prior to further processing. This may be done to obtain a more accurate or realistic view of the type of elements used and the frequency of use of those elements over time.

Such a set or sets of data may then be processed and subjected to one or more decision or evaluation processes in order to determine a set of user interface elements e.g. the data entry fields of a form or selectable elements of a display to present to the user in the future step or stage . This processing or other form of evaluating the stored usage data may take any suitable form including but not limited to ranking in order of frequency of use and if desired application of a threshold process to determine a subset of the used elements that satisfy some criterion ranking in order of frequency of use as biased by consideration of a related parameter generating a predicted set of elements expected to be used by the user for a particular situation based on collaborative filtering or the output of a machine learning model generating a set of elements expected to be used based on usage by another person group or entity that has something in common with the user etc.

In addition or instead a business rule or rules may be applied to determine a set of user interface elements that it is desired a specific client or set of users use such as those required by a business or process or required due to the role a user has in an organization e.g. such as providing final approval of some action or expense . Further the resulting data may be filtered or otherwise modified to emphasize or de emphasize the use of certain elements based on a rule security policy access control policy expected trend a desire to determine the impact of certain elements on users preferences the role of the user within an organization etc.

The result of the processing evaluation filtering or other analysis will be data indicating a set of user interface elements that the user is expected and in some cases required to use in the future when accessing that user interface display screen. This set of expected elements may then be represented by a binary number step or stage . In one embodiment each numeral i.e. one or zero in the binary number represents that a particular element is either used typically represented by a or not used typically represented by a by the user. The location of the or in a string may be mapped or otherwise associated with a specific user interface element a region on a user interface display a data field etc. For example each numeral occupies a specific position where that position may be associated with a particular user interface element such as a field in a data entry form . Thus in one sense the binary number represents an encoding or representation of the result of processing the usage data. Note that the binary representation may be further filtered or adjusted in accordance with a business rule security policy access control policy user role etc. e.g. by changing a 0 to a 1 for an element that should always be presented to the user regardless of actual usage frequency .

The binary representation of the user interface configuration for the user is then converted to a decimal number step or stage . The decimal number thus represents the set of user interface elements that will be presented to that user in the future. The decimal number may then be stored along with an identifier for the user and an identifier for the user interface display to which the usage data applies stage or step . Note that although a binary representation and or a decimal representation of the user s usage data have been described embodiments of the invention are not limited to being implemented using those representations. Other representations of the encoded data or of a converted or encrypted form of the encoded data may be used provided that there is a way to process the converted form e.g. the decimal value to a unique representation of information e.g. the binary number which can be mapped to a specific set of user interface elements. As described herein this may be accomplished by exchange or determination of a shared key that is used to determine an encoding encryption method where that key may be valid for only a single use or session.

At a later time the same user or one to whom the same user interface configuration applies logs into a system and or accesses an application having a configurable user interface stage or step . This may mean that the user executes an application or service having a user interface display such as a form to be filled in or uses a device or terminal to log into a platform or network. In response the system and or application accesses or requests the user s user interface configuration data stage or step . This may occur as a result of the system or a computing element within the system determining the application or display the user has accessed which along with the user s identifier such as may be obtained via the login process provides sufficient information to lookup or otherwise access and retrieve the stored configuration data. Next in one embodiment the system and or application receives the decimal number representing the user s user interface configuration stage or step .

Next the decimal number representing the user s user interface configuration is converted to the appropriate format or type e.g. binary as illustrated in stage or step . The converted representation is then mapped or otherwise associated with one or more specific data entry fields UI elements etc. stage or step of . This may be performed as a result of comparing the binary representation to a stored index table or list that associates each number location in a string of numbers to a specific user interface element data entry field on a form item etc. For example below is an example of a chart or index that may represent an association between each numeral location and a specific user interface element 

Note that the mapping table or other form of associating each user interface element with the position of a number in a string is also typically used in the converse sense to encode or represent the processed usage data in the form of a string of numbers. For example if the processing of a user s use of user interface elements such as data entry fields of a form determines that the fields for Name Title Task and Date should be presented to the user then that would be encoded or represented as the binary number 1101100 when stored or subjected to other processing.

Next the user interface elements that are determined to be represented by the binary number are presented to the user stage or step . This may mean that certain fields but not others of a form are presented that certain user interface elements are presented while others are not such as buttons links etc. that certain functions or capabilities are presented while others are not e.g. save delete share but not copy that certain folders are presented that certain system functions are enabled or disabled that certain network configurations are enabled or disabled that certain functions are highlighted or rendered inactive etc. At this point the process may return to step or stage to collect information regarding the user s use of the presented user interface elements during the current use or session and thereby to refine those presented to the user at a later time based on the relative usage of the presented and or other user interface elements. This adjustment may be accomplished by use of a suitable adaptive or iterative process stage or step such as an adaptive control process that compares the current session s use with previous use data and makes an adjustment based on the differences and an applicable rule statistical analysis or model.

Note that although an embodiment of the invention has been described in which the user interface usage data is represented as a binary number and then converted to a decimal number embodiments of the invention are not limited to this implementation. For example the decimal number may be converted to or represented by a hexadecimal number or other form which may be converted back to a unique binary representation. Similarly the decimal number or binary representation may be encoded or encrypted using a suitable key before being stored or transferred to a requesting system or application. The key may be one that is exchanged between the user and the system or application one that is selected from a list or table according to an agreed upon process one based on previous usage data in which case the previous data may serve as a seed for generating a key or as a baseline value to which a difference term is added etc.

The following provide examples of the collection and processing of user interface element usage data and the use of an encoding and encryption process to represent the usage data for purposes of security or access control in the storage and transfer of the usage data and represent one or more possible embodiments of the invention 

In one embodiment the user interface element data may be used as a form of security key to enable the encryption and decryption of data and to ensure that updated usage data is correct and being provided from a reliable source. is a diagram illustrating a user entering data into a form or template and a process or processes to determine and store field usage data that may be implemented as part of an embodiment of the invention. As shown in the figure a user enters data into a form or template where the data entered may represent a selection of an option entry of data into a field etc. . A client side process obtains the UI element field usage data and processes it as needed. As suggested by the figure separate functional data or information e.g. information about a user interface form template structure field definitions field identifications field values etc. may be combined with the processed UI element field usage data as suggested by operation to form a payload . The payload may then be subjected to an encryption process prior to being made available to a remote server for server side processing. A server process may then decrypt the payload and determine the frequency of use or predicted frequency of use data for that user interface display when used by that user . This information may be determined by any suitable method or process including but not limited to or requiring to include counting ordering sorting statistical analysis modeling machine learning etc. The field usage data and or frequency of use predicted frequency of use data is then typically stored in a database or other data storage element that is accessible by the server side process such as a multi tenant data processing platform database .

In accordance with one embodiment of the invention the system apparatus methods processes functions and or operations for enabling efficient configuration and presentation of a user interface to a user based on the user s previous behavior may be wholly or partially implemented in the form of a set of instructions executed by one or more programmed computer processors such as a central processing unit CPU or microprocessor. Such processors may be incorporated in an apparatus server network element client or other computing or data processing device operated by or in communication with other components of the system. As an example is a diagram illustrating elements or components that may be present in a computer device or system configured to implement a method process function or operation in accordance with an embodiment of the invention. The subsystems shown in are interconnected via a system bus . Additional subsystems include a printer a keyboard a fixed disk and a monitor which is coupled to a display adapter . Peripherals and input output I O devices which couple to an I O controller can be connected to the computer system by any number of means known in the art such as a serial port . For example the serial port or an external interface can be utilized to connect the computer device to further devices and or systems not shown in including a wide area network such as the Internet a mouse input device and or a scanner. The interconnection via the system bus allows one or more processors to communicate with each subsystem and to control the execution of instructions that may be stored in a system memory and or the fixed disk as well as the exchange of information between subsystems. The system memory and or the fixed disk may embody a tangible computer readable medium.

It should be understood that the present invention as described above can be implemented in the form of control logic using computer software in a modular or integrated manner. Based on the disclosure and teachings provided herein a person of ordinary skill in the art will know and appreciate other ways and or methods to implement the present invention using hardware and a combination of hardware and software.

Any of the software components processes or functions described in this application may be implemented as software code to be executed by a processor using any suitable computer language such as for example Java Javascript C or Perl using for example conventional or object oriented techniques. The software code may be stored as a series of instructions or commands on a computer readable medium such as a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM a magnetic medium such as a hard drive or a floppy disk or an optical medium such as a CD ROM. Any such computer readable medium may reside on or within a single computational apparatus and may be present on or within different computational apparatuses within a system or network.

All references including publications patent applications and patents cited herein are hereby incorporated by reference to the same extent as if each reference were individually and specifically indicated to be incorporated by reference and or were set forth in its entirety herein.

The use of the terms a and an and the and similar referents in the specification and in the following claims are to be construed to cover both the singular and the plural unless otherwise indicated herein or clearly contradicted by context. The terms having including containing and similar referents in the specification and in the following claims are to be construed as open ended terms e.g. meaning including but not limited to unless otherwise noted. Recitation of ranges of values herein are merely indented to serve as a shorthand method of referring individually to each separate value inclusively falling within the range unless otherwise indicated herein and each separate value is incorporated into the specification as if it were individually recited herein. All methods described herein can be performed in any suitable order unless otherwise indicated herein or clearly contradicted by context. The use of any and all examples or exemplary language e.g. such as provided herein is intended merely to better illuminate embodiments of the invention and does not pose a limitation to the scope of the invention unless otherwise claimed. No language in the specification should be construed as indicating any non claimed element as essential to each embodiment of the present invention.

Different arrangements of the components depicted in the drawings or described above as well as components and steps not shown or described are possible. Similarly some features and sub combinations are useful and may be employed without reference to other features and sub combinations. Embodiments of the invention have been described for illustrative and not restrictive purposes and alternative embodiments will become apparent to readers of this patent. Accordingly the present invention is not limited to the embodiments described above or depicted in the drawings and various embodiments and modifications can be made without departing from the scope of the claims below.

