---

title: Scalable policy deployment architecture in a communication network
abstract: Aspects describe using a Policy Access Gateway that can facilitate scalability within a communication network and that can provide a solution to deploy an enhanced policy gateway. The Policy Access Gateway can enhance standard defined Diameter Routing Agent (DRA) functions with session binding mechanisms. Further, the Policy Access Gateway is scalable and can be deployed in a very large network that supports hundreds of millions of users. Further, the Policy Access Gateway can provide additional policy information to enable policy information consolidation and caching capabilities.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09497087&OS=09497087&RS=09497087
owner: AT&T Intellectual Property I, L.P.
number: 09497087
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150116
---
This application is a continuation of and claims priority to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 011 808 entitled A SCALABLE POLICY DEPLOYMENT ARCHITECTURE IN A COMMUNICATION NETWORK and filed Jan. 21 2011 the entirety of which application is hereby incorporated herein by reference.

The subject disclosure relates to wireless communications and more particularly to a scalable policy management and deployment architecture in a wireless communications network.

With the increasingly high demand for mobile broadband services network operators are rushing to deploy large scale networks. Such networks include Long Term Evolution LTE networks as well as other types of networks. The new services that will be supported on the networks are both data particularly video and voice. These services require Quality of Services QoS and some services such as voice will require guaranteed bit rate bearers to deliver good customer experience. In addition operators need to differentiate control and bill different types of traffic on the network.

Traditionally policy management for telecommunication networks has focused mainly on network management. In recent years however as wireless networks have migrated toward Internet Protocol IP based service environments policy management has been gaining increasing importance to telecommunication networks that manage and control those services. Thus policy management becomes an important component in the deployment.

Although policy management has been standardized in some networks such as LTE networks the deployment use cases and architecture are not covered in the standard and it is up to each operator to decide how to deploy the network based on its services and use cases. Further each separate service or class of services requests the networks to apply different policy mechanisms depending on the type of request being handled. Additionally most of the management functions are scattered across the network and tend to be performed in a localized and static fashion.

For instance when a user of a networked portable device such as a cell phone Personal Digital Assistant PDA laptop or the like request s access to one or more services offered through the one more networks there is no common manner to track access and user requests based on type of services such as voice. Further there is no common means to manage store update and so forth the policies.

In a large scale LTE deployment to support voice and other services it is important to track media sessions and provide end to end session tracking and management. Further there is no common architecture that enables scaling of policy framework deployment in such networks.

The above described deficiencies of today s policy deployment architectures are merely intended to provide an overview of some of the problems of conventional systems and are not intended to be exhaustive. Other problems with conventional systems and corresponding benefits of the various non limiting embodiments described herein may become further apparent upon review of the following description.

Network deployment should support IP based and non IP based service traffic including voice services and mobile data services. For example there are challenges in deploying voice over Long Term Evolution LTE networks as well as other networks since such deployment can comprise Internet Protocol IP Multimedia Subsystem IMS systems in order to manage voice media. For some applications the voice media stream should be Quality of Service QoS enabled and have a guaranteed bit rate. In addition the media should be anchored outside of the LTE EPC Evolved Packet Core network such as with a session border controller SBC . Thus it would be desirable to provide network elements that can keep track of these media sessions and that can provide end to end session tracking and management.

In addition the current policy framework deployment can be difficult to scale up in order to support projected user and traffic growth in the future. Additionally there currently is no mechanism to manage the complexity of networks in terms of policy related services and information. Further the current deployment is very difficult to scale up in terms of additional Policy and Charging Rules Function PCRF deployment.

Thus it would be beneficial to provide a scalable and deployable solution that will address these problems. Further it would be beneficial to provide a scalable and deployable solution that will support a communication network with the projected as well as more than projected user and traffic growth.

An aspect relates to a method that comprises providing routing between network entities and a plurality of service zones. The method also comprises receiving network policy information from the network entities. At least one network entity performs a first function that is different from a second function performed by a second network entity. The method can also comprise tracking user service activities and managing the plurality of service zones based on the network policy information wherein the managing is performed on behalf of the network entities.

Various embodiments provide a solution to deploy an enhanced policy gateway. One or more disclosed aspects can enhance standard defined Diameter Routing Agent DRA functions with session binding mechanisms. Further the disclosed embodiments are scalable and can be deployed in a very large network that supports hundreds of millions of users. Additionally one or more embodiments can provide additional policy information to enable policy information consolidation and caching capabilities.

Further one or more embodiments provide a single network entity that is configured to consolidate policy related functions and manage the network related policies. The single entity can perform the functions of a standard Diameter Routing Agent DRA as defined by the Third 3 Generation Partnership 3GPP . In addition to the standard DRA functions the single entity can also perform additional functions to process the policies. Further the single entity can retain some state and session information in accordance with one or more of the aspects disclosed herein. These and other embodiments are described in more detail below.

In an example the method also comprises retaining at least one state and session information related to a service in a service zone of the plurality of service zones. In accordance with some aspects the providing comprises providing routing between the network entities and five or more service zones.

According to an aspect the method comprises managing the plurality of service zones wherein a first service zone is located in a first national data center and a second service zone is located in a second national data center.

Additionally the tracking can comprise tracking a first activity for a first user service session and a second activity for a second user service session. In accordance with some aspects the tracking comprises tracking a plurality of services provided to one user device. In another aspect the tracking comprises tracking different network elements that facilitate the user service activities. According to a further aspect the tracking comprises tracking different combinations of network nodes that support the user service activities. Such tracking can be utilized to provide end to end session tracking and management e.g. differentiate control and bill different types of services or traffic on the network.

The method can also comprise communicating with the plurality of service zones on behalf of one or more of the network entities and communicating with one or more of the network entities on behalf of the plurality of service zones.

Another aspect relates to an apparatus comprising a consolidation component that manages and consolidates network related policies. In accordance with some aspects the network related policies are managed on behalf of a first entity and at least a second entity wherein the first entity and the at least a second entity perform disparate functions. The apparatus also comprises a deployment component that implements the network related policies on a plurality of service zones.

In accordance with some aspects the apparatus comprises an interface component that communicates with the plurality of service zones on behalf of the first entity and the second entity. According to another aspect the apparatus comprises an interface component that communicates with the first entity and the second entity on behalf of the plurality of service zones. The plurality of service zones can comprise five or more service zones.

In accordance with some aspects the apparatus comprises a mapping component that tracks user service activities and network nodes that support the user service activities. According to some aspects the apparatus comprises a storage media that retains at least one state and session information related to a service in a service zone of the plurality of service zones.

A further aspect relates to computer readable storage medium comprising computer executable code instructions stored therein wherein in response to execution by at least one processor. The computer executable code instructions perform operations comprising tracking user service activities with respect to a wireless communication network and correlating the user service activities to different combinations of network nodes that support the user service activities.

In accordance with some aspects the user service activities comprise a first activity for a first service session and a second activity for a second service session. In another aspect the user service activities comprise a plurality of services provided to one user device. In a further aspect the user service activities comprise different network elements that provide the user service activities.

According to some aspects the operations further comprise providing routing between network entities and a plurality of service zones and receiving network policy information from the network entities that comprise different functions. The operations can also comprise managing the plurality of service zones based on the network policy information wherein the managing is performed on behalf of the network entities.

Herein an overview of some of the embodiments for a scalable policy deployment architecture has been presented above. As a roadmap for what follows next various exemplary non limiting embodiments and features for policy deployment architectures are described in more detail. Then some non limiting implementations and examples are given for additional illustration followed by representative networks and environments in which such embodiments and or features can be implemented.

By way of further description with respect to one or more non limiting ways to provide a scalable policy deployment architecture a high level block diagram of an exemplary communication system is illustrated generally by . The communication system can be included in an environment which can be a communications network and or a set of communication networks. Network types can include Universal Mobile Telecommunications Systems UMTS Long Term Evolution LTE High Speed Packet Access HSPA Code Division Multiple Access CDMA Multi Carrier Code Division Multiple Access MC CDMA Single Carrier Code Division Multiple Access SC CDMA Time Division Multiple Access TDMA Frequency Division Multiple Access FDMA Single Carrier FDMA SC FDMA Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiple Access OFDMA and so on. Although the various aspects and examples are discussed herein with respect to a LTE network it should be appreciated that the disclosed aspects can be utilized with other networks and any references to LTE networks are for purposes of simplicity of describing the various aspects.

The environment can include a multitude of network entities wherein each entity or a set of entities can perform a function that is different from a function performed by another entity or another set of entities . Network entities can include but are not limited to Diameter Routing Agents DRAs Balance Manager BMs Policy and Charging Enforcement Functions PCEFs Policy Controlling and Rules Functions PCRF Session Border Controllers SBCs gateways e.g. messaging gateway application and content providers and so forth.

Further the network entities can deploy one or more policies. As used herein policies refers to a set of one or more rules that a network operator can define and enforce in a telecommunications network e.g. environment . The policies can be exchanged and can be applied both within an operator domain and across different operator domains. The policies are input in the form of one or more arriving policies to a consolidation component . The consolidation component is configured to manage the one or more arriving policies wherein each of the arriving policies can be associated with a different network entity. Further the consolidation component is configured to consolidate the one or more arriving policies . At least a subset of the consolidated policy information is conveyed to a deployment component that is configured to implement the network related policies on a multitude of service zones included in the environment.

As shown consolidation component and deployment component can be included in a communications apparatus or network entity. In accordance with some aspects the communications apparatus sometimes referred to herein as a Policy Access Gateway PAG can be configured to perform various functions usually performed by a DRA. In accordance with some aspects the communications apparatus is configured to perform functions for processing policies. According to some aspects the communications apparatus is configured to perform both DRA functions as well as additional functions for policy processing. Further the communications apparatus can be configured to retain state and session information. Additionally the communications apparatus is configured to provide intelligent policy routing between PCEFs and their managing PCRF instance. Further according to some aspects the communications apparatus is configured to provide policy and charging control for PCEFs that are located in a large number of service zones wherein the service zones can be in the same or in different National Data Centers NDC .

In an embodiment the communication system illustrated by can differ in operation from a conventional communication system in order to provide additional benefits over those achievable by systems that employ a non scalable policy deployment architecture. For instance the communication systems disclosed herein are scalable and can be deployed in a very large network that support hundreds of millions of users.

Illustrating other aspects is a block diagram showing a consolidation component according to an aspect. The consolidation component is configured to receive manage and consolidate network related policies. As discussed with reference to the consolidation component can be included in a communication apparatus or PAG.

The consolidation component comprises a receiver component that is configured to obtain network policy information from a multitude of network entities labeled as network entitythrough network entity where N is an integer. Each of the network entities can perform a different function or subsets of the network entities can perform different functions wherein a subset as used herein comprises one or more network entities. For example a first subset of network entities can perform a first function a second subset of network entities can perform a second function a third subset of network entities can perform a third function and so on.

For example a network entity can be an Application Function AF which is an element offering applications that need dynamic policy and or charging and control over an IP Connectivity Access Network IP CAN user plane behavior. The AF can receive an indication that the service information is not accepted by a PCRF together with service information that the PCRF would accept. In that case the AF rejects the service establishment to the user equipment or user device . If possible the AF can forward to the user equipment an indication of the service information that the PCRF would accept. AF may communicate with multiple PCRFs and contact the appropriate PCRF based on either an end user IP Address and or a user equipment identity of which the AF is made aware.

In a further example another network entity is a Subscription Profile Repository SRP logical entity that includes all subscriber subscription related information needed for subscription based policies and IP CAN Internet Protocol Connectivity Access Network bearer level charging rules by the PCRF. The SPR may be combined with or distributed across other databases in the operator s network. SPR may provide information including but not limited to Subscriber s allowed services Information on subscriber s allowed QoS Subscriber s charging related information and Subscriber category.

Another example of a network entity and its related functionality is a PCEF which examines packets passing though a gateway and enforces control and charging policy decisions on the packets. These policy decisions are generated by a policy decision engine which can be called a Policy Control and Charging Rules Function PCRF in 3GPP. A Gx reference point carries subscriber information and access sessions information from the PCEF to the PCRF and policy decisions from the PCRF to the PCEF.

The consolidation component also comprises a routing component that is configured to provide routing between the network entities and a multitude of service zones labeled as service zonethough service zone where M is an integer. In an example the routing between the network entities and the multitude of service zones might have previously been performed by a Diameter Routing Agent DRA according to conventional deployment architectures. However in accordance with the disclosed aspects the routing is performed by the routing component or another component of the communications apparatus or PAG . In accordance with some aspects service zones comprise five or more service zones wherein the routing component further provides routing between the network entities and the five or more service zones .

Illustrating other aspects is a block diagram showing a deployment component according to an aspect. The deployment component is configured to implement the network related policies on a plurality of service zones. As discussed with reference to the deployment component can be included in a communication apparatus or PAG.

The deployment component can comprise a management component that is configured to manage the multitude of service zones labeled as service zonethough service zone where M is an integer based on the network policy information received by a consolidation component and conveyed to deployment component .

In an aspect the managing by management component is performed on behalf of the different network entities . Thus deployment component can comprise a mapping component that is configured to track the network policies or consolidated network policies and associate each policy or set of policies to each service zone. In accordance with some aspects the mapping is performed at a device level wherein each policy or set of policies is matched to a user equipment level. In accordance with some aspects the mapping component tracks user service activities and network nodes that support the user service activities. For example the mapping component can track a first activity for a first user service and a second activity for a second user service.

For example mapping component can be configured to track the user service activities based on the IP flows that carry the bits for these services. The requests can be received from user agents which are applications on the user device or user equipment for example. The user service activities can include but are not limited to a voice call an instant message an Internet browsing session and so forth.

To further describe the various aspects provided herein illustrates a conventional network deployment architecture that does not incorporate the disclosed aspects. This architecture can produce PCRF scaling problems. Included in the architecture is a common service zone that comprises one PCRF instance in a national data center. The PCRF instance is configured to support up to four traffic service zones labeled as First Zone Zone 1 Second Zone Zone 2 Third Zone Zone 3 and Fourth Zone Zone 4 . Thus there is a one to four 1 4 relationship between the PCRF instance and its service zones.

Each Zone comprises a PGW which comprises a PCEF and a Serving Gateway SGW . A policy session bind correlation and load balancing between the PCRF and PCEF are achieved though a predefined static configurations on each side. To support additional traffic service zones additional PCRFs need to be added since the PCRF cannot support more than four service zones per the 1 4 ratios . This scaling mechanism can present operational challenges as additional data centers are created within the communication network.

To overcome the scaling problem illustrates a scalable deployment architecture according to an aspect. As illustrated a PAG e.g. communication apparatus of is included in the deployment architecture . In accordance with some aspects the PAG can be based on RFC 3588 and relevant 3GPP standards for policy and charging control which are incorporated herein by reference. Alternatively the disclosed aspects do not depend on the 3GPP standard and other embodiments of the disclosed architecture apply to principles of the disclosed aspects in an architecture not fully compliant with 3GPP.

As illustrated the PAG can reside in a common service zone and can interface with a PCRF . The PAG can also interface with a plurality of service zones labeled as a first zone Zone 1 a second zone Zone 2 and other zones up to zone p 1 and zone p where p is an integer. Each zone comprises respective PGWs PCEFs and SGWs .

In accordance with some aspects the PAG performs functions similar to those of a Diameter Routing Relay and Proxy Agent for PCRF as well as additional functions discussed herein. Thus the PAG can provide intelligent policy routing between PCEFs and their managing PCRF instance. Further the PAG allows P number of PCEFs to connect to their managing PCRF instance which can provide large scale deployment flexibility. For example zones can be added without the need to add additional PCRFs.

Further the PAG can interface with a Managed Services Provider MSP over a Gx interface. The PAG can also interface with Application and Content Providers over an Rx interface for example. Additionally the PAG can interface with one or more DRAs and a Session Boarder Controller SBC which controls the signaling and the media streams involved in setting up conducting and tearing down voice calls or other interactive media and can comprise an Application Function AP .

The PAG is configured to consolidate all policy related functions. The PAG is also configured to manage the network related policies. Further the PAG can comprise the standard Diameter Routing Agent DRA functions as defined by 3GPP. In addition the PAG can also be configured to perform other functions such as processing policies and retaining some state and session information.

The illustrated deployment architecture can be based on an existing network topology and can further provide support for future LTE network deployment. Thus the disclosed aspects can support IP Multimedia Subsystem IMS based services such as Voice links to the Session Border Controller SBC for both signaling and media and messaging IP SM GW . Further by deploying the PAG as disclosed herein the various aspects can provide scalability to the policy functions in large LTE deployments which will be able to support hundreds of millions of users. The DRA can take the diameter function and route the function and perform other standard routing functions.

In accordance with some aspects the PAG is associated with a storage media . Although shown as external to the PAG according to some aspects storage media can be contained at least partially within the PAG . Storage media can be configured to retain at least one state and at least one session information related to a service in at least one service zone of the multitude of service zones.

An interface component can be included in the PAG in accordance with some aspects. The interface component can be configured to communicate with the multitude of service zones on behalf of an entity or two or more entities . Additionally or alternatively the interface component can be configured to communicate with the entity or the two or more entities on behalf of the multitude of service zones.

Thus the disclosed aspects can provide PCRF scaling for PCEF where PCRF is not located in the same NDC with the PCEFs. The PCRF can provide policy and charging control for PCEFs from P number of traffic service zones in different NDC PAG networks which is a globally routable secured and dedicate network for PAG signaling for routing policy traffic.

By way of example and not limitation policy based routing supporting PCRF scaling and policy geographic distribution flexible deployment architecture can be configured to provide support for standard policy routing functions.

In another example the disclosed aspects can provide dynamic policy based transaction state tracking and management. This can provide a policy based tracking mechanism in addition to simple standard routing. With this mechanism the network can keep track of the sessions between any network nodes for all subscribers and for each user s current services and the network elements that provide the services. With this intelligence dynamic and customized services becomes possible.

At network policy information is received from the network entities. User service activities are tracked at . The tracking of user service activities can comprise tracking a first activity for a first user service session and a second activity for a second user service session. In accordance with some aspects the tracking comprises tracking a plurality of services provided to one user device. In another aspect the tracking comprising tracking different network elements or network entities that facilitate the services. Further different combinations of different network nodes that support the user service activities can be tracked.

The plurality of service zones are managed at . The management of the plurality of service zones can be based on the network policy information. In accordance with some aspects the management is performed on behalf of one or more of the network entities.

In accordance with some aspects the method can also include retaining at least one state and session information related to one or more services of one or more service zones of the plurality of service zones.

In one embodiment a computer readable storage medium comprises computer executable code instructions stored therein wherein in response to execution by at least one processor the computer executable code performs operations comprising tracking user service activities with respect to a wireless communication network and correlating the user service activities to different combinations of network nodes that support the user service activities. The user service activities can comprise a first activity for a first user equipment and a second activity for a second user equipment. In accordance with some aspects the user service activities comprise a plurality of services provided to one user equipment. According to some aspects the user service activities comprise different network elements that provide the services. The operations can also comprise providing routing between network entities and a plurality of service zones receiving network policy information from the network entities with different functions and managing the plurality of service zones based on the network policy information wherein the managing is performed on behalf of the network entity.

By way of further description with respect to one or more non limiting ways to provide scalable policy deployment is a schematic example wireless environment that can operate in accordance with aspects described herein. In particular example wireless environment illustrates a set of wireless network macro cells. Three coverage macro cells and comprise the illustrative wireless environment however it should be appreciated that wireless cellular network deployments can encompass any number of macro cells for example coverage macro cells. Coverage macro cells and are illustrated as hexagons however coverage cells can adopt other geometries generally dictated by a deployment configuration or floor plan geographic areas to be covered and so on. Each macro cell and is sectorized in a 2 3 configuration in which each macro cell includes three sectors demarcated with dashed lines in . It should be appreciated that other sectorizations are possible and aspects or features of the disclosed subject matter can be exploited regardless of type of sectorization. Macro cells and are served respectively through base stations or eNodeBs and . Any two eNodeBs can be considered a eNodeB site pair NBSP . It is noted that radio component s are functionally coupled through links such as cables e.g. RF and microwave coaxial lines ports switches connectors and the like to a set of one or more antennas that transmit and receive wireless signals not illustrated . It is noted that a radio network controller not shown which can be a part of mobile network platform s and set of base stations e.g. eNode B and that serve a set of macro cells electronic circuitry or components associated with the base stations in the set of base stations a set of respective wireless links e.g. links and operated in accordance to a radio technology through the base stations form a macro radio access network RAN . It is further noted that based on network features the radio controller can be distributed among the set of base stations or associated radio equipment. In an aspect for UMTS based networks wireless links and embody a Uu interface UMTS Air Interface .

Mobile network platform s facilitates circuit switched CS based e.g. voice and data and packet switched PS e.g. internet protocol IP frame relay or asynchronous transfer mode ATM traffic and signaling generation as well as delivery and reception for networked telecommunication in accordance with various radio technologies for disparate markets. Telecommunication is based at least in part on standardized protocols for communication determined by a radio technology utilized for communication. In addition telecommunication can exploit various frequency bands or carriers which include any EM frequency bands licensed by the service provider e.g. personal communication services PCS advanced wireless services AWS general wireless communications service GWCS and so forth and any unlicensed frequency bands currently available for telecommunication e.g. the 2.4 GHz industrial medical and scientific IMS band or one or more of the 5 GHz set of bands . In addition mobile network platform s can control and manage base stations and and radio component s associated thereof in disparate macro cells and by way of for example a wireless network management component e.g. radio network controller s cellular gateway node s etc. Moreover wireless network platform s can integrate disparate networks e.g. femto network s Wi Fi network s femto cell network s broadband network s service network s enterprise network s and so on . In cellular wireless technologies e.g. 3rd Generation Partnership Project 3GPP Universal Mobile Telecommunication System UMTS Global System for Mobile Communication GSM wireless network platform is embodied in a core network and a set of radio network controllers.

In addition wireless backhaul link s can include wired link components like T1 E1 phone line a digital subscriber line DSL either synchronous or asynchronous an asymmetric DSL ADSL an optical fiber backbone a coaxial cable etc. and wireless link components such as line of sight LOS or non LOS links which can include terrestrial air interfaces or deep space links e.g. satellite communication links for navigation . In an aspect for UMTS based networks wireless backhaul link s 1024 embodies IuB interface.

It should be appreciated that while exemplary wireless environment is illustrated for macro cells and macro base stations aspects features and advantages of the disclosed subject matter can be implemented in microcells picocells femto cells or the like wherein base stations are embodied in home based access points.

To provide further context for various aspects of the disclosed subject matter illustrates a block diagram of an embodiment of an access point e.g. base station wireless access point femtocell access point etc. that can enable and or exploit features or aspects of the disclosed subject matter.

In embodiment access point can receive and transmit signal s from and to wireless devices wireless ports wireless routers etc. through segments N is a positive integer . Segments can be internal and or external to access point and can be controlled by 1 monitor component and 2 antenna component . Further monitor component and antenna component can couple to communication platform which comprises electronic components and associated circuitry that provide for processing and manipulation of received signal s and other signal s to be transmitted.

In an aspect communication platform includes a receiver transmitter that can convert analog signals to digital signals upon reception of the analog signals and convert digital signals to analog signals upon transmission. In addition receiver transmitter can divide a single data stream into multiple parallel data streams or perform the reciprocal operation. Coupled to receiver transmitter is a multiplexer demultiplexer that facilitates manipulation of signals in time and frequency space. Electronic component can multiplex information data traffic and control signaling according to various multiplexing schemes such as time division multiplexing TDM frequency division multiplexing FDM orthogonal frequency division multiplexing OFDM code division multiplexing CDM space division multiplexing SDM . In addition mux demux component can scramble and spread information e.g. codes according to substantially any code known in the art e.g. Hadamard Walsh codes Baker codes Kasami codes polyphase codes etc. A modulator demodulator is also a part of communication platform and can modulate information according to multiple modulation techniques such as frequency modulation amplitude modulation e.g. M ary quadrature amplitude modulation QAM with M a positive integer phase shift keying PSK etc.

Access point also includes a processor configured to confer at least in part functionality to substantially any electronic component in access point . In particular processor can facilitate configuration of access point via e.g. monitor component antenna component and one or more component therein. Additionally access point can include display interface which can display functions that control functionality of access point or reveal operation conditions thereof. In addition display interface can include a screen to convey information to an end user. In an aspect display interface can be an LCD Liquid Crystal Display a plasma panel a monolithic thin film based electrochromic display and so on. Moreover display interface can also include a component e.g. speaker that facilitates communication of aural indicia which can also be employed in connection with messages that convey operational instructions to an end user. Display interface can also facilitate data entry e.g. through a linked keypad or via touch gestures which can cause access point to receive external commands e.g. restart operation.

Broadband network interface facilitates connection of access point to a service provider network not shown that can comprise one or more cellular technologies e.g. 3GPP UMTS GSM etc. via backhaul link s not shown which enable incoming and outgoing data flow. Broadband network interface can be internal or external to access point and can utilize display interface for end user interaction and status information delivery.

Processor can be functionally connected to communication platform and can facilitate operations on data e.g. symbols bits or chips for multiplexing demultiplexing such as effecting direct and inverse fast Fourier transforms selection of modulation rates selection of data packet formats inter packet times etc. Moreover processor can be functionally connected via data system or address bus to display interface and broadband network interface to confer at least in part functionality to each of such components.

In access point memory can retain location and or coverage area e.g. macro sector identifier s access list s that authorize access to wireless coverage through access point sector intelligence that can include ranking of coverage areas in the wireless environment of access point radio link quality and strength associated therewith or the like. Memory also can store data structures code instructions and program modules system or device information code sequences for scrambling spreading and pilot transmission access point configuration and so on. Processor can be coupled e.g. via a memory bus to memory in order to store and retrieve information used to operate and or confer functionality to the components platform and interface that reside within access point .

As it employed in the subject specification the term processor can refer to substantially any computing processing unit or device comprising but not limited to comprising single core processors single processors with software multithread execution capability multi core processors multi core processors with software multithread execution capability multi core processors with hardware multithread technology parallel platforms and parallel platforms with distributed shared memory. Additionally a processor can refer to an integrated circuit an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a digital signal processor DSP a field programmable gate array FPGA a programmable logic controller PLC a complex programmable logic device CPLD a discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions and or processes described herein. Processors can exploit nano scale architectures such as but not limited to molecular and quantum dot based transistors switches and gates in order to optimize space usage or enhance performance of mobile devices. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing processing units.

In the subject specification terms such as store data store data storage database and substantially any other information storage component relevant to operation and functionality of a component and or process refer to memory components or entities embodied in a memory or components comprising the memory. It will be appreciated that the memory components described herein can be either volatile memory or nonvolatile memory or can include both volatile and nonvolatile memory.

By way of illustration and not limitation nonvolatile memory for example can be included in memory non volatile memory see below disk storage see below and memory storage see below . Further nonvolatile memory can be included in read only memory ROM programmable ROM PROM electrically programmable ROM EPROM electrically erasable ROM EEPROM or flash memory. Volatile memory can include random access memory RAM which acts as external cache memory. By way of illustration and not limitation RAM is available in many forms such as synchronous RAM SRAM dynamic RAM DRAM synchronous DRAM SDRAM double data rate SDRAM DDR SDRAM enhanced SDRAM ESDRAM Synchlink DRAM SLDRAM and direct Rambus RAM DRRAM . Additionally the disclosed memory components of systems or methods herein are intended to comprise without being limited to comprising these and any other suitable types of memory.

In order to provide a context for the various aspects of the disclosed subject matter and the following discussion are intended to provide a brief general description of a suitable environment in which the various aspects of the disclosed subject matter can be implemented. While the subject matter has been described above in the general context of computer executable instructions of a computer program that runs on a computer and or computers those skilled in the art will recognize that the subject application also can be implemented in combination with other program modules. Generally program modules include routines programs components data structures etc. that perform particular tasks and or implement particular abstract data types.

Moreover those skilled in the art will appreciate that the inventive systems can be practiced with other computer system configurations including single processor or multiprocessor computer systems mini computing devices mainframe computers as well as personal computers hand held computing devices e.g. PDA phone watch microprocessor based or programmable consumer or industrial electronics and the like. The illustrated aspects can also be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network however some if not all aspects of the subject disclosure can be practiced on stand alone computers. In a distributed computing environment program modules can be located in both local and remote memory storage devices.

With reference to a block diagram of a computing system operable to execute the disclosed systems and methods is illustrated in accordance with an embodiment. Computer includes a processing unit a system memory and a system bus . System bus couples system components including but not limited to system memory to processing unit . Processing unit can be any of various available processors. Dual microprocessors and other multiprocessor architectures also can be employed as processing unit .

System bus can be any of several types of bus structure s including a memory bus or a memory controller a peripheral bus or an external bus and or a local bus using any variety of available bus architectures including but not limited to Industrial Standard Architecture ISA Micro Channel Architecture MSA Extended ISA EISA Intelligent Drive Electronics IDE VESA Local Bus VLB Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI Card Bus Universal Serial Bus USB Advanced Graphics Port AGP Personal Computer Memory Card International Association bus PCMCIA Firewire IEEE 1194 and Small Computer Systems Interface SCSI .

System memory includes volatile memory and nonvolatile memory . A basic input output system BIOS containing routines to transfer information between elements within computer such as during start up can be stored in nonvolatile memory . By way of illustration and not limitation nonvolatile memory can include ROM PROM EPROM EEPROM or flash memory. Volatile memory includes RAM which acts as external cache memory. By way of illustration and not limitation RAM is available in many forms such as SRAM dynamic RAM DRAM synchronous DRAM SDRAM double data rate SDRAM DDR SDRAM enhanced SDRAM ESDRAM Synchlink DRAM SLDRAM Rambus direct RAM RDRAM direct Rambus dynamic RAM DRDRAM and Rambus dynamic RAM RDRAM .

Computer also includes removable non removable volatile non volatile computer storage media. illustrates for example disk storage . Disk storage includes but is not limited to devices like a magnetic disk drive floppy disk drive tape drive Jaz drive Zip drive LS 100 drive flash memory card or memory stick. In addition disk storage can include storage media separately or in combination with other storage media including but not limited to an optical disk drive such as a compact disk ROM device CD ROM CD recordable drive CD R Drive CD rewritable drive CD RW Drive or a digital versatile disk ROM drive DVD ROM . To facilitate connection of the disk storage devices to system bus a removable or non removable interface is typically used such as interface .

It is to be appreciated that describes software that acts as an intermediary between users and computer resources described in suitable operating environment . Such software includes an operating system . Operating system which can be stored on disk storage acts to control and allocate resources of computer system . System applications take advantage of the management of resources by operating system through program modules and program data stored either in system memory or on disk storage . It is to be appreciated that the disclosed subject matter can be implemented with various operating systems or combinations of operating systems.

A user can enter commands or information e.g. via interface component into computer system through input device s . Input devices include but are not limited to a pointing device such as a mouse trackball stylus touch pad keyboard microphone joystick game pad satellite dish scanner TV tuner card digital camera digital video camera web camera and the like. These and other input devices connect to processing unit through system bus via interface port s . Interface port s include for example a serial port a parallel port a game port and a universal serial bus USB . Output device s use some of the same type of ports as input device s .

Thus for example a USB port can be used to provide input to computer and to output information from computer to an output device . Output adapter is provided to illustrate that there are some output devices like monitors speakers and printers among other output devices which use special adapters. Output adapters include by way of illustration and not limitation video and sound cards that provide means of connection between output device and system bus . It should be noted that other devices and or systems of devices provide both input and output capabilities such as remote computer s .

Computer can operate in a networked environment using logical connections to one or more remote computers such as remote computer s . Remote computer s can be a personal computer a server a router a network PC a workstation a microprocessor based appliance a peer device or other common network node and the like and typically includes many or all of the elements described relative to computer .

For purposes of brevity only a memory storage device is illustrated with remote computer s . Remote computer s is logically connected to computer through a network interface and then physically connected via communication connection . Network interface encompasses wire and or wireless communication networks such as local area networks LAN and wide area networks WAN . LAN technologies include Fiber Distributed Data Interface FDDI Copper Distributed Data Interface CDDI Ethernet Token Ring and the like. WAN technologies include but are not limited to point to point links circuit switching networks like Integrated Services Digital Networks ISDN and variations thereon packet switching networks and Digital Subscriber Lines DSL .

Communication connection s refer s to hardware software employed to connect network interface to bus . While communication connection is shown for illustrative clarity inside computer it can also be external to computer . The hardware software for connection to network interface can include for example internal and external technologies such as modems including regular telephone grade modems cable modems and DSL modems ISDN adapters and Ethernet cards.

It is to be noted that aspects features or advantages of the subject application described in the subject specification can be exploited in substantially any communication technology. For example 4G technologies Wi Fi WiMAX Enhanced GPRS 3GPP LTE 3GPP2 UMB 3GPP UMTS HSPA HSDPA HSUPA GERAN UTRAN LTE Advanced. Additionally substantially all aspects disclosed herein can be exploited in legacy telecommunication technologies e.g. GSM. In addition mobile as well non mobile networks e.g. Internet data service network such as IPTV can exploit aspect or features described herein.

As it employed in the subject specification the term processor can refer to substantially any computing processing unit or device comprising but not limited to comprising single core processors single processors with software multithread execution capability multi core processors multi core processors with software multithread execution capability multi core processors with hardware multithread technology parallel platforms and parallel platforms with distributed shared memory. Additionally a processor can refer to an integrated circuit an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a digital signal processor DSP a field programmable gate array FPGA a programmable logic controller PLC a complex programmable logic device CPLD a discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. Processors can exploit nano scale architectures such as but not limited to molecular and quantum dot based transistors switches and gates in order to optimize space usage or enhance performance of user equipment. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing processing units.

In the subject specification and annexed drawings terms such as store data store data storage database and substantially any other information storage component relevant to operation and functionality of a component refer to memory components or entities embodied in a memory or components comprising the memory. It will be appreciated that the memory components described herein can be either volatile memory or nonvolatile memory or can include both volatile and nonvolatile memory.

By way of illustration and not limitation nonvolatile memory can include read only memory ROM programmable ROM PROM electrically programmable ROM EPROM electrically erasable ROM EEPROM or flash memory. Volatile memory can include random access memory RAM which acts as external cache memory. By way of illustration and not limitation RAM is available in many forms such as synchronous RAM SRAM dynamic RAM DRAM synchronous DRAM SDRAM double data rate SDRAM DDR SDRAM enhanced SDRAM ESDRAM Synchlink DRAM SLDRAM and dire Rambus RAM DRRAM . Additionally the disclosed memory components of systems or methods herein are intended to comprise without being limited to comprising these and any other suitable types of memory.

Various aspects or features described herein can be implemented as a method apparatus or article of manufacture using standard programming and or engineering techniques. In addition various aspects disclosed in the subject specification can also be implemented through program modules stored in a memory and executed by a processor or other combination of hardware and software or hardware and firmware.

Computing devices typically include a variety of media which can include computer readable storage media or communications media which two terms are used herein differently from one another as follows.

Computer readable storage media can be any available storage media that can be accessed by the computer and includes both volatile and nonvolatile media removable and non removable media. By way of example and not limitation computer readable storage media can be implemented in connection with any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions program modules structured data or unstructured data. Computer readable storage media can include but are not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disk DVD or other optical disk storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or other tangible and or non transitory media which can be used to store desired information. Computer readable storage media can be accessed by one or more local or remote computing devices e.g. via access requests queries or other data retrieval protocols for a variety of operations with respect to the information stored by the medium.

Communications media typically embody computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other structured or unstructured data in a data signal such as a modulated data signal e.g. a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery or transport media. The term modulated data signal or signals refers to a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in one or more signals. By way of example and not limitation communication media include wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic RF infrared and other wireless media.

What has been described above includes examples of systems and methods that provide advantages of the subject application. It is of course not possible to describe every conceivable combination of components or methods for purposes of describing the subject application but one of ordinary skill in the art may recognize that many further combinations and permutations of the claimed subject matter are possible. Furthermore to the extent that the terms includes has possesses and the like are used in the detailed description claims appendices and drawings such terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising as comprising is interpreted when employed as a transitional word in a claim.

As used in this application the terms component system and the like are intended to refer to a computer related entity or an entity related to an operational apparatus with one or more specific functionalities wherein the entity can be either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. As an example a component may be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a server or network controller and the server or network controller can be a component. One or more components may reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers. Also these components can execute from various computer readable media having various data structures stored thereon. The components may communicate via local and or remote processes such as in accordance with a signal having one or more data packets e.g. data from one component interacting with another component in a local system distributed system and or across a network such as the Internet with other systems via the signal . As another example a component can be an apparatus with specific functionality provided by mechanical parts operated by electric or electronic circuitry which is operated by a software or firmware application executed by a processor wherein the processor can be internal or external to the apparatus and executes at least a part of the software or firmware application. As yet another example a component can be an apparatus that provides specific functionality through electronic components without mechanical parts the electronic components can include a processor therein to execute software or firmware that confers at least in part the functionality of the electronic components. As further yet another example interface s can include input output I O components as well as associated processor application or Application Programming Interface API components.

In addition the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or. That is unless specified otherwise or clear from context X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is if X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B then X employs A or B is satisfied under any of the foregoing instances. Moreover articles a and an as used in the subject specification and annexed drawings should generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from context to be directed to a singular form.

