---

title: Preparation of sorbent pellets with high integrity for sorption of COfrom gas streams
abstract: Method for the production of a COsorbent prepared by integrating a clay substrate, basic alkali salt, amine liquid, hydraulic binder, and a liquid binder. The basic alkali salt is present relative to the clay substrate in a weight ratio of from about 1 part to about 50 parts per 100 parts of the clay substrate. The amine liquid is present relative to a clay-alkali combination in a weight ratio of from about 1 part to about 10 parts per 10 parts of the clay-alkali combination. The clay substrate and basic alkali salt may be combined in a solid-solid heterogeneous mixture and followed by introduction of the amine liquid. Alternatively, an alkaline solution may be blended with the amine solution prior to contacting the clay substrate. The clay-alkali-amine COsorbent is particularly advantageous for low temperature COremoval cycles in a gas stream having a COconcentration less than around 2000 ppm and an oxygen concentration around 21%, such as air.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09333485&OS=09333485&RS=09333485
owner: U.S. Department of Energy
number: 09333485
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150424
---
This patent application claims priority from nonprovisional patent application Ser. No. 13 867 192 filed Apr. 22 2013 now U.S. Pat. No. 9 079 160 which is hereby incorporated by reference.

The United States Government has rights in this invention pursuant to the employer employee relationship of the Government to the inventors as U.S. Department of Energy employees and site support contractors at the National Energy Technology Laboratory and pursuant to Contract Research and Development Agreement CRADA No. AGMT 0255.

One or more embodiments of the present invention relates to a method for the fabrication of a solid sorbent for the sorption of COfrom a gaseous stream where the solid sorbent is comprised of a clay substrate a basic alkali salt an amine liquid a binder and a hydraulic binder.

COabsorption processes using aqueous amine solutions facilitate the removal of COfrom gas streams in many industries. A common process is known as wet chemical stripping where one or more reversible chemical reactions between COand amine substances produce liquid species such as a carbamate. The conversion of carbamate back to COproceeds through a thermal regeneration process typically at a temperature of about 120 C. As a result the process is energy intensive. Additionally the amine solution has a limited lifetime due to amine oxidation and amine solutions may exacerbate corrosion problems of associated process equipment.

To mitigate these issues solid sorbents serve as alternatives to wet chemical stripping via the formation of carbamate species. Important considerations include the ability to regenerate an absorbent and the ease of its regeneration and multiple solid COsorbents exist. Efforts have been made to reversibly adsorb COon silica gel modified with amine. See U.S. Pat. No. 5 087 597 to Leal et al. issued Feb. 11 1992. Methods have also been disclosed for incorporating liquid amines onto the surface of support substrates having relatively high surface areas. See U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 876 488 and 5 492 683 to Birbara et al. issued Mar. 2 1999 and Feb. 20 1996 respectively and see U.S. Pat. No. 4 810 266 to Zinnen et al. issued Mar. 7 1989. Amines have also been distributed within the interlayers of clay substrates. See U.S. Pat. No. 6 908 497 to Siriwardane issued Jun. 21 2005.

The effective lifetime of these solid sorbents is impacted by amine oxidation in environments where the oxygen concentration is substantial. The Interaction of amine with oxygen is known to degrade the amines. See e.g. Lepaumier et al. New Amines for COCapture. II. Oxidative Degradation Mechanisms 48 20 2009 among others.

Since air contains 21 oxygen air degradation is a significant concern. Correspondingly it would be advantageous to provide a method for producing a solid sorbent offering increased resistance to oxygen degradation over those currently offered. Additionally since the degradation mechanism with oxygen is reported to have acidic intermediates it would be advantageous to provide a method by which the acidic intermediate formation could be minimized through inclusion of a relatively inexpensive material such as an alkali.

Disclosed here is a method for the production of a COsorbent exhibiting an increased effective lifetime in environments having substantial oxygen concentrations. The method generates the COsorbent through integration of a clay substrate a basic alkali salt and an amine liquid followed by incorporation of a liquid binder and a hydraulic binder. The clay substrate serves as a plurality of internally situated reaction sites while the basic alkali salt acts as a strong base to generate a high pH environment. The basic alkali salt greatly mitigates oxygen degradation of the amine and significantly prolongs the useful life of the clay alkali amine COsorbent. The clay alkali amine COsorbent produced is particularly effective for low temperature COremoval cycles from air COhaving a COconcentration less than around 1 and an oxygen concentration around 21 .

These and other objects aspects and advantages of the present disclosure will become better understood with reference to the accompanying description and claims.

The method disclosed provides for the production of a clay alkali amine COsorbent generated through the integration of a clay substrate a basic alkali salt an amine liquid a hydraulic binder and a liquid binder. The clay substrate generally serves as a plurality of internally situated reaction sites while the basic alkali salt acts as a strong base in order to generate a high pH environment. The effect of the basic alkali salt greatly mitigates oxygen degradation of the amine and significantly prolongs the useful life of the clay alkali amine COsorbent.

The clay alkali amine COsorbent is prepared by mixing the clay substrate the basic alkali salt and the amine liquid. The basic alkali salt is present relative to the clay substrate in a weight ratio of from about 1 part to about 50 parts per 100 parts of the clay substrate. The amine liquid is present relative to the clay alkali combination in a weight ratio of from about 1 part to about 10 parts per 10 parts of the clay alkali combination. The clay alkali and amine are blended to generate a clay alkali amine powder. The hydraulic binder is mixed with the clay alkali amine powder in a weight ratio of 0.5 25 parts per 62 parts of the clay alkali amine powder then the powder binder mixture is blended with the liquid binder using a weight ratio of from about 0.5 3 parts per 1 part of the hydraulic binder. The liquid binder has a melting point greater than about 50 C. and is supplied as a liquid. Following the blending the COsorbent mixture is cooled to a temperature of less than 25 C. to generate the COsorbent. The COsorbent mixture is generally a plurality of COsorbent pellets typically having a mean diameter less than about 30 mm.

The clay substrate is an aluminum phyllosilicate having a layered structure expanded by polar molecules. The cation of the basic alkali salt is comprised of Na K Li Rb Cs Ca Ba or Sr and the anion could be a hydroxide carbonate acetate phosphate or oxide. The liquid amine is comprised of a primary amine a secondary amine a tertiary amine an aromatic amine a cyclic amine or combinations thereof. In an embodiment the clay substrate is bentonite the basic alkali salt is NaOH or NaCO and the amine liquid is a diethanolamine DEA solution. The hydraulic binder is a material which hardens by hydration reactions and forms a generally water resistant product. In certain embodiments the hydraulic binder comprises Portland cement a material comprising calcium sulfate such as DRIERITE and or a material comprising calcium aluminate calcium silicates or a combination. The liquid binder is a material which has a melting point of at least 50 C. and typically has a polar functional group capable of associating with water such as an amino or hydroxy group. In certain embodiment the liquid binder comprises ethylene glycol diethylene glycol propylene glycol 1 3 propane diol glycerol monoacetate and diacetate ethyl glycolate and mono and di ethanol amines.

In a particular embodiment the clay substrate is supplied as a plurality of clay substrate granules and the basic alkali salt is supplied as a plurality of basic alkali salt granules and the clay alkali amine COsorbent is produced by initially generating a solid solid heterogeneous mixture of the clay substrate and the basic alkali salt. A limited quantity of liquid such as water may be added to the solid solid heterogeneous mixture in order to form porous clay alkali pellets. The solid solid heterogeneous mixture is then combined with the amine liquid to produce the clay alkali amine powder and the hydraulic binder and liquid binder are utilized as before.

In another embodiment the clay substrate is supplied as a plurality of porous clay particles and the basic alkali salt is supplied as an alkali solution. In this embodiment an amine alkali liquid is generated by blending the liquid amine the alkali solution and a solvent. The porous clay particles are contacted with the amine alkali liquid allowing the amine alkali liquid to penetrate the porous clay pellets and generate the clay alkali amine powder. The resulting clay alkali amine powder the hydraulic binder and liquid binder are utilized as before.

The clay alkali amine COsorbent produced by the disclosed method is particularly advantageous for low temperature COremoval cycles where COis present at ppm levels and where oxygen concentrations are increased. For example the clay alkali amine sorbent produced is particularly useful for low temperature COremoval cycles when the gas stream is air CO having a COconcentration less than around 2000 ppm and an oxygen concentration generally around 21 .

The following description is provided to enable any person skilled in the art to use the invention and sets forth the best mode contemplated by the inventor for carrying out the invention. Various modifications however remain readily apparent to those skilled in the art since the principles of the present invention are defined herein specifically to provide a method for the production of a COsorbent through the integration of a clay substrate a basic alkali salt and an amine liquid followed by incorporation of a hydraulic binder and a liquid binder.

The method disclosed provides for the production of a COsorbent comprised of a clay substrate a basic alkali salt an amine liquid a hydraulic binder and a liquid binder. The COsorbent may be utilized for the capture of COfrom a gas stream. The clay substrate generally serves as a plurality of internally situated reaction sites to facilitate reaction of the amines in the amine liquid with CO and the basic alkali salt acts as a strong base which possibly absorbs HO from the gas stream and generates a high pH environment. The effect of the basic alkali salt tends to greatly mitigate oxygen degradation of the amine and significantly prolong the useful life of the COsorbent. The COsorbent produced is particularly advantageous for low temperature COremoval cycles where COis present at ppm levels and where oxygen concentrations are increased. For example the COsorbent produced is particularly useful for low temperature COremoval cycles when the gas stream is air having a COconcentration less than around 2000 ppm and an oxygen concentration generally around 21 .

The COsorbent is prepared by initially mixing the clay substrate the basic alkali salt and the amine liquid. The basic alkali salt is present relative to the clay substrate in a weight ratio of from about 1 part to about 50 parts per 100 parts of the clay substrate. The amine liquid is present relative to the clay alkali combination in a weight ratio of from about 1 part to about 10 parts per 10 parts of the clay alkali combination. The clay substrate the basic alkali salt and the amine liquid are integrated to produce a clay alkali amine powder. Subsequently the clay alkali amine powder is mixed with a hydraulic binder to form a powder binder mixture. In the powder binder mixture the hydraulic binder is present relative to the clay alkali amine powder in a weight ratio of from about 0.5 to about 25 parts per 62 parts of the clay alkali amine powder. The powder binder mixture is then blended with a liquid binder supplied in a weight ratio of from about 0.5 to about 3 parts per 1 part of the hydraulic binder present in the powder binder mixture to generate a COsorbent mixture generally in the form of pellets. The liquid binder has a melting point greater than about 50 C. and is supplied as a liquid. Following the blending the COsorbent pellets are cooled to a temperature of less than 25 C. to generate the COsorbent.

A portion of the COsorbent is generally illustrated at . At sorbent portion is comprised of a clay substrate basic alkali salt and an amine liquid. Additionally pores are physically interconnected throughout sorbent portion to create conduits within sorbent portion . Thus fluids within an atmosphere surrounding sorbent portion can diffuse into the pores to interact with and be reversibly bound to the amine comprising the amine liquid.

A substantial portion of the amines and basic alkali salt within the clay alkali amine combination is encapsulated between expanded interlayers of the clay substrate. As is understood polar liquids can enter between interlayers of certain substrates causing the lattice structure of the substrate to expand. One suitable substrate is bentonite an inert mineral alumino silicate whose main constituent is montmorillinite comprised of continuous layers of alumino silicate sheets. The c axis s dimension of the montmorillinite in bentonite may expand from 9.6 angstrom to an almost complete separation in the presence of polar liquids. See e.g. U.S. Pat. No. 6 908 497 to Siriwardane issued Jun. 21 2005 among others.

The process for producing the clay alkali amine COsorbent is generally comprised of supplying a clay substrate a basic alkali salt and an amine liquid. The basic alkali salt is supplied relative to the clay substrate in a weight ratio of from about 1 part to about 50 parts per 100 parts of the clay substrate. In an embodiment the clay substrate is supplied at 0.5 parts to about 5 parts per 15 parts of the clay substrate. The amine liquid is supplied relative to a clay alkali amine combination in a weight ratio of from about 1 part to about 10 parts per 10 parts of the clay alkali combination. The clay substrate basic alkali salt and amine liquid in the supplied quantities are integrated to produce a clay alkali amine powder. Subsequently the clay alkali amine powder is mixed with a hydraulic binder to form a powder binder mixture and the powder binder mixture is blended with a liquid binder. The hydraulic binder is present relative to the clay alkali amine powder in a weight ratio of from about 0.5 to about 25 parts per 62 parts of the clay alkali amine powder and the liquid binder is present in a weight ratio of from about 0.5 to about 3 parts per 1 part of the hydraulic binder. Additionally the liquid binder is a material having a melting temperature of at least 50 C. and is added to the powder binder mixture as a liquid. Following addition of the liquid binder the COsorbent mixture is cooled to a temperature of less than 25 C. to generate the COsorbent.

Within this disclosure the basic alkali salt is comprised of a metallic cation and an anion where the metallic cation is Na K Li Rb Cs Ca Ba or Sr and where the anion is hydroxide ion a carbonate ion an acetate ion a phosphate ion or an oxide ion. Similarly the second basic alkali salt when utilized may be comprised of a Na K Li Rb Cs Ca Ba or Sr metallic cations and a hydroxide carbonate phosphate acetate or oxide anions. In a particular embodiment the metallic cation is Na and the anion is a hydroxide or carbonate.

The basic alkali salt is a salt which can be formed by an anion derived from a weak acid and a cation derived from a strong base. As is understood a weak acid is an acid which fails to ionize fully when dissolved in water. In an embodiment the anion of the basic alkali salt is derived from a weak acid where the weak acid has a pkgreater than or equal to 2. See e.g. W. M. Haynes 92Ed. 2012 among others. Additionally in an embodiment the basic alkali salt is comprised of at least 90 by weight of a basic alkali compound consisting of an alkali cation and an alkali anion where the alkali cation is from the group consisting of Na K Li Rb Cs Ca Ba Sr and mixtures thereof and the alkali anion is from the group consisting of a hydroxide ion a carbonate ion an acetate ion a phosphate ion an oxide ion or mixtures thereof.

The clay substrate is an aluminum phyllosilicate comprised of a layered structure which can expand to allow polar molecules to reside therein. In a particular embodiment the clay substrate is comprised of bentonite however clays other than bentonite can be used including but not limited to ball clay fuller s earth kaolin attapulgite hectorite meerschaum palygorskite saponite sepiaolite common clay and fire clay. Some clays may swell more than others thus having greater absorption capacities. Some clays may be able to contain or otherwise accommodate a greater volume of polar liquids than others. Typically the aluminum phyllosilicate is a hydrous aluminum phyllosilicate.

The liquid amine is liquid comprised of an amine where the amine is a primary amine a secondary amine a tertiary amine an aromatic amine a cyclic amine or combinations thereof. The amine may contain one or more moieties such as methyl ethyl n propyl isopropyl n butyl isobutyl t butyl allyl vinyl cyclopentyl cyclohexyl phenyl naphthyl ethylene glycol polyethylene glycol and combinations thereof. Moieties attached to an amine nitrogen may contain one or more hydroxyl moieties attached to one or more moiety carbon atoms. In an embodiment the amine comprises at least 90 of the liquid amine by mass. In a further embodiment the amine comprises at least 99 of the liquid amine by mass.

The hydraulic binder is a material which hardens by hydration reactions and forms a generally water resistant product. In some embodiments hydraulic binder refers to a hydraulic cement as described within ASTM Cement C 1157 . In other embodiments the hydraulic binder comprises hydraulic calcium silicates or calcium sulfate. In certain embodiments the hydraulic binder comprises Portland cement a material comprising calcium sulfate such as DRIERITE and or a material comprising calcium aluminate calcium silicates or a combination.

The liquid binder is a material which has a melting point of at least 50 C. The liquid binder is typically a solid at a temperature of 25 C. Generally the liquid binder has at least one polar functional group capable of associating with water such as an amino or hydroxy group. In an embodiment the liquid binder comprises ethylene glycol diethylene glycol propylene glycol 1 3 propane diol glycerol monoacetate and diacetate ethyl glycolate and mono and di ethanol amines. In an embodiment the liquid binder comprises a polyethylene glycol PEG such as PEG 3350 or PEG 8000. In an embodiment the liquid binder is added to the powder binder mixture drop wise.

The clay alkali amine powder may be generated using any appropriate methodology including those methodologies disclosed in co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 867 192 by Siriwardane et al. In a particular embodiment the clay alkali amine powder is produced by generating a solid solid heterogeneous mixture of the clay substrate and the basic alkali salt. In this particular embodiment the clay substrate is supplied as a plurality of clay substrate granules and the basic alkali salt is supplied as a plurality of basic alkali salt granules. Typically a mean diameter of both the clay substrate granules and the basic alkali salt granules is less than about 500 micron more typically less than 100 micron. Additionally the clay substrate particles may have a limited water content for example less than about 15 by mass. In this embodiment the clay substrate basic alkali salt and amine liquid are integrated by first mixing the clay substrate granules and the basic alkali salt granules to generate the solid solid heterogeneous mixture which is then combined with the amine liquid to produce the clay alkali amine powder.

The clay substrate granules and the basic alkali salt granules may be mixed into the solid solid heterogeneous mixture using any means known in the art. Various mixer types may be employed for example those types typically referred to a static mixers shaker mixers V blenders and others. Any means by which the basic alkali salt may be dispersed among the clay substrate particles is sufficient. Combination and mixing of the clay substrate granules and the basic alkali salt granules is typically conducted until the basic alkali salt particulates are substantially randomly dispersed within the clay substrate particles. Sufficient homogeneity of the solid solid heterogeneous mixture can typically be gauged by those skilled in the art. In an embodiment sufficient mixing was achieved using a 10 liter capacity EIRICH intensive mixer on slow speed for about 15 20 minutes. In an additional embodiment the solid solid heterogeneous mixture has a Lacey mixing index greater than 0.5 based on the proportion of the basic alkali salt. See e.g. Tasirin et al. Mixing Process of Binary Polymer Particles in Different Type of Mixers Modern Applied Science 3 6 2009 and incorporated references among many others. The solid solid heterogeneous mixture is then combined with the amine liquid.

In a further embodiment an alkaline solution is additionally added to the amine liquid where the alkaline solution is comprised of a second basic alkali salt. The second basic alkali salt may have the same chemical composition as the initial basic alkali salt supplied though this is not required. In this embodiment when the alkaline solution is utilized the mass of the second basic alkali salt comprising the alkaline solution is less than about 30 of the mass of the amine comprising the amine liquid.

In a second particular embodiment the basic alkali salt is supplied relative to the clay substrate in a weight ratio of from about 1 part to about 50 parts per 100 parts of the clay substrate and the amine liquid is supplied relative to a clay alkali combination at from about 1 part to about 10 parts per 10 parts of the clay alkali combination as before. In this particular embodiment the clay substrate is a plurality of porous clay particles where a porous clay particle contains physically interconnected pores which create conduits within the porous clay particle and where at least some portion of the interconnected pores are in fluid communication with an atmosphere surrounding the porous clay particle. Further in this particular embodiment the basic alkali salt is in the form of an alkali solution comprised of the basic alkali salt where the mass of the basic alkali salt comprising the alkali solution is less than about 30 of the mass of the amine comprising the amine liquid. Here integrating the clay substrate the basic alkali salt and the amine liquid is comprised of initially generating an amine alkali liquid by blending the liquid amine the alkali solution and a solvent where the basic alkali salt is soluble in the solvent and where the solvent is soluble in the amine. The plurality of porous clay particles is then contacted with the amine alkali liquid by stirring and or coating the plurality of porous clay particles with the amine alkali liquid and allowing at least some portion of the amine alkali liquid to penetrate the interconnected pores of the porous clay particles thereby generating the clay alkali amine powder.

Typically the plurality of porous clay particles has a mean diameter of less than about 500 micron more typically less than 100 micron. Within this disclosure the term mean diameter when referring to clay substrate granules basic alkali salt granules or a plurality of porous clay particles means an equivalent spherical diameter such as a Sauter mean diameter determined by means known in the art such as sieving microscopy sedimentation permeametry laser diffraction or other means or as reported by a manufacturer. See e.g. Martin Rhodes 2ed. 2008 .

Clay substrates basic alkali salts liquid amines and alkaline solutions as described within the various embodiments herein are commercially available from manufacturers such as for example Sigma Aldrich Co. LLC St. Louis Mo. among others.

The clay alkali amine COsorbent produced using the methods disclosed is particularly suitable for the absorption of COfrom a gas stream when the gas stream contains a low concentration of COand is additionally comprised of moisture and relatively high oxygen concentrations for example around 21 . The clay alkali amine COsorbent may be utilized for sorption in a temperature range or around 25 C. to about 60 C. and may be regenerated at temperatures below around 80 C. In this environment the clay alkali amine COsorbent exhibits stable reactivity and appears to greatly mitigate the impact of oxygen degradation of the encapsulated amine as compared to other clay amine sorbents prepared without the basic alkali salt as described.

Selected COsorbents prepared by the methods disclosed herein at listed at Tables 1 and 2. Additionally embodiments of the COsorbents at Table 2 were tested using with fixed bed reactor COsorption tests. The fixed bed reactor COsorption tests were conducted with 1050 ppm CO air mixture at 25 C. Regeneration was conducted at 50 C. with N. COcapture capacities for the COsorbents tested are reported at Table 2. The COcapture capacities reported in Table 2 are for the breakthrough times of 400 ppm.

Additionally sorption data is illustrated at showing concentration profiles during fixed bed flow reactor tests for sorption of COat 25 C. and 1 atm 1050 PPM CO 21 O Balance N 3 moisture at 50 sccm. At illustrates the performance of a COsorbent comprising a hydraulic binder of DRIERITE and a liquid binder of PEG with the hydraulic binder and PEG present in generally a 1 1 ratio. Similarly illustrates the performance of a COsorbent comprising DRIERITE and PEG with the hydraulic binder and the PEG present in generally a 8 5 ratio.

Thus disclosed here is a method for the production of a clay alkali amine COsorbent comprised of a clay substrate a basic alkali salt an amine liquid a hydraulic binder and a liquid binder for the capture of COfrom a gas stream. The clay substrate serves as a plurality of internally situated reaction sites facilitating reaction of the amines with CO and the basic alkali salt acts as a strong base possibly absorbing HO to generate a high pH environment. The basic alkali salt greatly mitigates oxygen degradation of the amine and significantly prolongs the useful life of the COsorbent. The COsorbent produced is particularly advantageous for low temperature COremoval cycles where COis present at ppm levels and where oxygen concentrations are increased such as low temperature COremoval cycles from air having a COconcentration less than around 2000 ppm and an oxygen concentration around 21 .

It is to be understood that the above described arrangements are only illustrative of the application of the principles of the present invention and it is not intended to be exhaustive or limit the invention to the precise form disclosed. Numerous modifications and alternative arrangements may be devised by those skilled in the art in light of the above teachings without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention. It is intended that the scope of the invention be defined by the claims appended hereto.

In addition the previously described versions of the present invention have many advantages including but not limited to those described above. However the invention does not require that all advantages and aspects be incorporated into every embodiment of the present invention.

All publications and patent documents cited in this application are incorporated by reference in their entirety for all purposes to the same extent as if each individual publication or patent document were so individually denoted.

