---

title: Voice-controlled three-dimensional fabrication
abstract: An additive three-dimensional fabrication system includes voice control for user interaction. This voice-controlled interface can enable a variety of voice-controlled functions and operations, while supporting interactions specific to consumer-oriented fabrication processes.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09349374&OS=09349374&RS=09349374
owner: MakerBot Industries, LLC
number: 09349374
owner_city: Brooklyn
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150814
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 556 012 filed on Jul. 23 2012 now U.S. Pat. No. 9 108 450 which claims the benefit of U.S. App. No. 61 642 745 filed on May 4 2012.

In an additive three dimensional fabrication system a physical object can be realized from a digital model by depositing successive layers of a build material that accumulate to provide the desired form. The increasing availability and decreasing cost of such three dimensional fabrication systems has created opportunities for in home rapid prototyping and other personal manufacturing. In this context there remains a need for improved interfaces that provide greater flexibility and convenience to users.

An additive three dimensional fabrication system includes voice control for user interaction. This voice controlled interface can enable a variety of voice controlled functions and operations while supporting interactions specific to consumer oriented fabrication processes.

In one aspect a device disclosed herein includes an additive fabrication system an audio input coupled to the additive fabrication system an audio output coupled to the additive fabrication system and a processor configured to receive a voice signal from the audio input process the voice signal to extract a command for the additive fabrication system an object identifier and at least one dimensional specification and when the command includes a print command to cause the additive fabrication system to execute the print command based upon the object identifier and the dimensional specification.

The processor may be further configured to identify an error in the voice signal and to request a clarification for the error with spoken output through the speaker. The error may relate to the command. The error may include an unrecognized command. The error may include an incomplete command wherein at least one element is missing. The incomplete command may be an incomplete print command and the at least one element may include the object identifier or the dimensional specification. The error may occur when the object identifier cannot be correlated to any printable object. The error may occur because the object identifier requires disambiguation to resolve to a unique printable object. The error may relate to the dimensional specification. For example the dimensional specification may exceed a build volume of the additive fabrication system or the dimensional specification may exceed a dimensional processing capability of the additive fabrication system.

The print command may include an instruction to fabricate an object. The object identifier may specify a three dimensional model of an object. The object identifier may include at least one of a file name and file metadata. The dimensional specification may include at least one of a scale of an object and a dimension of an object the dimension of the object further including at least one of height width and depth. The processor may be further configured to extract a build material specification from the voice signal the build material specification used to select a type of the build material for the additive fabrication system. The build material specification may include a color specification used to select a color of the build material. The type may be one of a plurality of different types of build material available to the additive fabrication system. The additive fabrication system may be configured to detect the type of the build material using at least one sensor and wherein the processor is configured to confirm that the actual build material corresponds to the type of the build material corresponds to the build material specification. The processor may be further configured to extract one or more print parameters from the voice signal. The one or more print parameters may include an infill percentage. The one or more print parameters may include a relative print speed. The processor may be further configured to provide a status update as spoken output through the speaker. The status update may relate to completion of a build. The status update may relate to availability of the additive fabrication system. The status update may relate to instrumentation of the additive fabrication system.

The processor may be further configured to transmit the voice signal in digital form to a remote processing facility for speech recognition. The remote processing facility may return instructions to the additive fabrication system. The remote processing facility may return text to the processor and the processor may be further configured to parse the text into one or more commands for the additive fabrication system. In another aspect there is disclosed herein a method including the steps of receiving a voice signal processing the voice signal to extract a command for an additive fabrication system an object identifier and at least one dimensional specification and when the command includes a print command for the additive fabrication system performing the steps of identifying a file corresponding to the object identifier that contains a model of an object scaling the model according to the at least one dimensional specification and creating one or more instructions for the additive fabrication system to fabricate the object from the scaled model.

The method may for example be realized as computer executable code embodied in a non transitory medium that when executing on one or more computing devices performs the foregoing steps. The one or more computing devices may include any combination of a controller or processor on an additive fabrication system a computer or the like coupled to the additive fabrication system and or a remote processing facility such as a print server or the like coupled in a communicating relationship with the additive fabrication system and or computer through a data network.

All documents mentioned herein are hereby incorporated in their entirety by reference. References to items in the singular should be understood to include items in the plural and vice versa unless explicitly stated otherwise or clear from the text. Grammatical conjunctions are intended to express any and all disjunctive and conjunctive combinations of conjoined clauses sentences words and the like unless otherwise stated or clear from the context. Thus the term or should generally be understood to mean and or and so forth.

Described herein are devices and methods for using networked three dimensional printers. It will be understood that while the exemplary embodiments below emphasize fabrication techniques using extrusion the principles of the invention may be adapted to a wide variety of three dimensional fabrication processes and in particular additive fabrication processes including without limitation selective laser sintering fused deposition modeling multijet printing and the like. Any reference herein to a fabrication process such as building printing or three dimensional printing is intended to refer to any and all such additive fabrication processes and terms such as printer fabrication resource additive fabrication system and the like are intended to refer to any and all such additive fabrication systems unless a different meaning is explicitly stated or otherwise clear from the context. Thus by way of example and not of limitation a three dimensional printer or simply printer is now described that may be used as a voice controlled additive fabrication system.

The build platform may include a surface that is rigid and substantially planar. The surface may provide a fixed dimensionally and positionally stable surface on which to build the object .

The build platform may include a thermal element that controls the temperature of the build platform through one or more active devices such as resistive elements that convert electrical current into heat Peltier effect devices that can create a heating or cooling effect or any other thermoelectric heating and or cooling devices. Thus the thermal element may be a heating element that provides active heating to the build platform a cooling element that provides active cooling to the build platform or a combination of these. The thermal element may be coupled in a communicating relationship with the controller in order for the controller to controllably impart heat to or remove heat from the surface of the build platform . Thus the thermal element may include an active cooling element positioned within or adjacent to the build platform to controllably cool the build platform .

It will be understood that a variety of other techniques may be employed to control a temperature of the build platform . For example the build platform may use a gas cooling or gas heating device such as a vacuum chamber or the like in an interior thereof which may be quickly pressurized to heat the build platform or evacuated to cool the build platform as desired. As another example a stream of heated or cooled gas may be applied directly to the build platform or a working volume before during and or after a build process. Any device or combination of devices suitable for controlling a temperature of the build platform may be adapted to use as the thermal element described herein.

The build platform may include a sheet of material upon which to build the object . In general the sheet may be formed of any suitable material selected e.g. for adhesion characteristics thermal characteristics and so forth. The sheet may include a mesh material a polyamide a polyethylene terephthalate commercially available in bi axial form as MYLAR a polyimide film commercially available as KAPTON or any other material suitable to a build process. A working surface of the sheet e.g. an area on the top surface of the sheet within the working volume may be treated in a variety of manners to assist with adhesion of build material to the surface and or removal of completed objects from the surface . For example the working surface may be abraded or otherwise textured e.g. with grooves protrusions and the like to improve adhesion between the working surface and the build material. A variety of chemical treatments may be used on the working surface of the sheet of material to further facilitate build processes as described herein. For example the chemical treatment may include a deposition of material that can be chemically removed from the build platform by use of water solvents or the like. This may facilitate separation of a completed object from the build platform by dissolving the layer of chemical treatment between the object and the build platform . The chemical treatments may include deposition of a material that easily separates from the conveyer such as a wax mild adhesive or the like. The chemical treatment may include a detachable surface such as an adhesive that is sprayed on to the build platform prior to fabrication of the object . In one aspect the sheet may be formed of a sheet of disposable one use material that is applied from a dispenser to the build platform and consumed with each successive build.

The audio input may include any suitable acoustic pick up device that can capture an audio signal from an environment around the printer for communication to the controller such as a microphone or an electro mechanical input for same such as an audio input jack or a wireless transceiver for receiving signals from a wireless microphone or the like. In certain embodiments the audio input may also or instead include a microphone of a remote device such as a smart phone for receiving spoken commands to the controller . In one aspect the audio input may include circuitry to convert acoustic signals into digital signals for the controller . In another aspect the audio input may provide an analog signal and the controller may include circuitry for analog to digital conversion of the audio signal. As used herein the term audio signal is intended to refer to acoustic energy such as spoken sounds as well as an analog or digital representation of such acoustic energy in a form suitable for processing by the printer unless a different meaning is expressly provided or otherwise clear from the context. The audio input might also or instead usefully include or couple to a remote device such as a cellular phone or smart phone that can receive and pre process spoken input that can in turn be transmitted as words to the controller or where a suitable application is installed as commands to the controller to fabricate a responsive object.

The audio output may include any audio output device s suitable for creating audible signals from digital or analog signals from the controller such as a speaker or any electromechanical coupling for same such as one or more audio output jacks or a wireless transceiver for communication of audio to a wireless speaker or the like. It will be appreciated that the audio input and audio output may be directly associated with the printer e.g. mounted to or otherwise physically integrated into the printer or the audio input and or the audio output may be associated with a computer or other device coupled to the printer . In this latter embodiment audio input and output may be conveniently provided to a printer that is not otherwise equipped for interactive voice control.

The extruder may include a chamber in an interior thereof to receive a build material. The build material may for example include acrylonitrile butadiene styrene ABS high density polyethylene HDPL polylactic acid PLA or any other suitable plastic thermoplastic or other material that can usefully be extruded to form a three dimensional object. The extruder may include an extrusion tip or other opening that includes an exit port with a circular oval slotted or other cross sectional profile that extrudes build material in a desired cross sectional shape.

The extruder may include a heater to melt thermoplastic or other meltable build materials within the chamber for extrusion through an extrusion tip in liquid form. While illustrated in block form it will be understood that the heater may include e.g. coils of resistive wire wrapped about the extruder one or more heating blocks with resistive elements to heat the extruder with applied current an inductive heater or any other arrangement of heating elements suitable for creating heat within the chamber to melt the build material for extrusion. The extruder may also or instead include a motor or the like to push the build material into the chamber and or through the extrusion tip .

In general operation and by way of example rather than limitation a build material such as ABS plastic in filament form may be fed into the chamber from a spool or the like by the motor melted by the heater and extruded from the extrusion tip . By controlling a rate of the motor the temperature of the heater and or other process parameters the build material may be extruded at a controlled volumetric rate. It will be understood that a variety of techniques may also or instead be employed to deliver build material at a controlled volumetric rate which may depend upon the type of build material the volumetric rate desired and any other factors. All such techniques that might be suitably adapted to delivery of build material for fabrication of a three dimensional object are intended to fall within the scope of this disclosure. As noted above other techniques may be employed for three dimensional printing including extrusion based techniques using a build material that is curable and or a build material of sufficient viscosity to retain shape after extrusion.

The x y z positioning assembly may generally be adapted to three dimensionally position the extruder and the extrusion tip within the working volume . Thus by controlling the volumetric rate of delivery for the build material and the x y z position of the extrusion tip the object may be fabricated in three dimensions by depositing successive layers of material e.g. in two dimensional patterns derived for example from cross sections of a computer model or other computerized representation of the object . A variety of arrangements and techniques are known in the art to achieve controlled linear movement along one or more axes. The x y z positioning assembly may for example include a number of stepper motors to independently control a position of the extruder within the working volume along each of an x axis a y axis and a z axis. More generally the x y z positioning assembly may include various combinations of stepper motors encoded DC motors gears belts pulleys worm gears threads and so forth. Any such arrangement suitable for controllably positioning the extruder within the working volume may be adapted to use with the printer described herein.

By way of example and not limitation the build platform may be affixed to a bed that provides z axis positioning of the build platform within the working volume while the extruder is configured for x y positioning within the plane of the build platform . As another example the extruder may be stationary while the build platform is x y and z positionable. As another example the extruder may be x y and z positionable while the build platform remains fixed relative to the working volume . More generally any arrangement of motors and other hardware controllable by the controller to position the extruder and or build platform relative to the working volume may serve as the x y z positioning assembly in the printer described herein. Still more generally while an x y z coordinate system serves as a convenient basis for positioning within three dimensions any other coordinate system or combination of coordinate systems may also or instead be employed such as a positional controller and assembly that operate according to cylindrical or spherical coordinates.

The controller may be electrically coupled in a communicating relationship with the build platform the audio input the audio output the x y z positioning assembly and the other various components of the printer . In general the controller is operable to control the components of the printer such as the build platform the x y z positioning assembly and any other components of the printer described herein to fabricate the object from a build material. The controller may include any combination of software and or processing circuitry suitable for controlling the various components of the printer described herein including without limitation microprocessors microcontrollers application specific integrated circuits programmable gate arrays and any other digital and or analog components as well as combinations of the foregoing along with inputs and outputs for transceiving control signals drive signals power signals sensor signals and so forth. In one aspect the controller may include a microprocessor or other processing circuitry with sufficient computational power to provide related functions such as executing an operating system providing a graphical user interface e.g. to a display coupled to the controller or printer convert three dimensional models into tool instructions and operate a web server or otherwise host remote users and or activity through the network interface described below. In another aspect the controller may include circuitry hosted in and or distributed among a number of systems such as a computer attached to the printer or a print server or the like remotely accessible through the Internet. All such combinations of hardware and or software and all such distributions of control functions are intended to fall within the meaning of the term controller or processor as used herein unless a specific meaning is explicitly provided or otherwise clear from the context.

A variety of additional sensors may be usefully incorporated into the printer described above. These are generically depicted as sensor in for which the positioning and mechanical electrical interconnections with other elements of the printer will depend upon the type and purpose of the sensor and will be readily understood and appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art. The sensor may include a temperature sensor positioned to sense a temperature of the surface of the build platform . This may for example include a thermistor or the like embedded within or attached below the surface of the build platform . This may also or instead include an infrared detector or the like directed at the surface of the build platform or the sheet of material. Other sensors that may be usefully incorporated into the printer as the sensor include a heat sensor a volume flow rate sensor a weight sensor a sound sensor a camera and a light sensor. Certain more specific examples are provided below by way of example and not of limitation.

The sensor may include a sensor to detect a presence or absence of the object at a predetermined location in the build platform . This may include an optical detector arranged in a beam breaking configuration to sense the presence of the object at a particular location such as a limit of the build volume . This may also or instead include an imaging device and image processing circuitry to capture an image of the working volume and analyze the image to evaluate a position of the object . This sensor may be used for example to ensure that the working volume is clear before initiating a build. Thus the sensor may be used to determine whether an object is present that should not be or to detect when an object is absent. The feedback from this sensor may be used by the controller to issue processing interrupts or otherwise control operation of the printer .

The sensor may include a sensor that detects a position of the extruder or build platform within the working volume . This information may be obtained from an encoder in a motor of the x y z positioning assembly or using any other suitable technique such as a visual sensor and corresponding fiducials e.g. visible patterns holes or areas with opaque specular transparent or otherwise detectable marking on the sheet .

The sensor may include a heater instead of or in addition to the thermal element to heat the working volume such as a radiant heater or forced hot air to maintain the object at a fixed elevated temperature throughout a build. The sensor may also or instead include a cooling element to maintain the object at a predetermined sub ambient temperature throughout a build.

The sensor may also or instead include at least one video camera. The video camera may generally capture images of the working volume the object or any other hardware associated with the printer . The video camera may provide a remote video feed through the network interface which feed may be available to remote users through a user interface maintained by e.g. remote hardware such as the print servers described below with reference to or within a web page provided by a web server hosted by the three dimensional printer . Thus in one aspect there is disclosed herein a user interface adapted to present a video feed from at least one video camera of a three dimensional printer to a remote user through a user interface.

The sensor may include may also include more complex sensing and processing systems or subsystems such as a three dimensional scanner using optical techniques e.g. stereoscopic imaging or shape from motion imaging time of flight range finding structured light techniques a plenoptic light field camera or any other suitable sensing and processing hardware that might extract three dimensional information from the working volume . In another aspect the sensor may include a machine vision system that captures images and analyzes image content to obtain information about the status of a job working volume or an object therein. The machine vision system may support a variety of imaging based automatic inspection process control and or robotic guidance functions for the three dimensional printer including without limitation pass fail decisions error detection and corresponding audible or visual alerts shape detection position detection orientation detection collision avoidance and so forth.

Other components generically depicted as other hardware may also be included such as input devices including a keyboard touchpad mouse switches dials buttons motion sensors and the like as well as output devices such as a display a speaker or other audio transducer light emitting diodes and so forth. Other hardware may also or instead include a variety of cable connections and or hardware adapters for connecting to e.g. external computers external hardware external instrumentation or data acquisition systems and so forth.

The printer may include or be connected in a communicating relationship with a network interface . The network interface may include any combination of hardware and software suitable for coupling the controller and other components of the printer to a remote computer in a communicating relationship through a data network. By way of example and not limitation this may include electronics for a wired or wireless Ethernet connection operating according to the IEEE 802.11 standard or any variation thereof or any other short or long range wireless networking components or the like. This may include hardware for short range data communications such as a BlueTooth or infrared transceiver which may be used to couple into a local area network or the like that is in turn coupled to a data network such as the Internet. This may also or instead include hardware software for a WiMax connection or a cellular network connection using e.g. CDMA GSM LTE or any other suitable protocol or combination of protocols . Consistently the controller may be configured to control participation by the printer in any network to which the network interface is connected such as by connecting to the network to retrieve printable content or responding to a remote request for status or availability. Networked uses of the printer are discussed in greater detail below.

With respect to voice processing as contemplated herein certain aspects can be computationally expensive and may be unsuited to local processing resources coupled to the printer . Networked environments for the printer are now described in which various voice processing functions contemplated herein may be distributed among networked components e.g. to reduce local processing demands or otherwise improve overall performance and capabilities.

The data network may be any network s or internetwork s suitable for communicating data and control information among participants in the environment . This may include public networks such as the Internet private networks telecommunications networks such as the Public Switched Telephone Network or cellular networks using third generation e.g. 3G or IMT 2000 fourth generation e.g. LTE E UTRA or WiMax Advanced IEEE 802.16m and or other technologies as well as any of a variety of corporate area or local area networks and other switches routers hubs gateways and the like that might be used to carry data among participants in the environment .

The three dimensional printers may be any computer controlled devices for three dimensional fabrication including without limitation any of the three dimensional printers or other fabrication or prototyping devices described above. In general each such device may include a network interface comprising e.g. a network interface card which term is used broadly herein to include any hardware along with software firmware or the like to control operation of same suitable for establishing and maintaining wired and or wireless communications. The network interface card may include without limitation wired Ethernet network interface cards NICs wireless 802.11 networking cards wireless 802.11 USB devices or other hardware for wireless local area networking. The network interface may also or instead include cellular network hardware wide area wireless network hardware or any other hardware for centralized ad hoc peer to peer or other radio communications that might be used to carry data. In another aspect the network interface may include a serial or USB port to directly connect to a computing device such as a desktop computer that in turn provides more general network connectivity to the data network .

The printers might be made to fabricate any object practical or otherwise that is amenable to fabrication according to each printer s capabilities. This may be a model of a house or a tea cup as depicted or any other object such as gears or other machine hardware replications of scanned three dimensional objects or fanciful works of art.

Client devices may be any devices within the environment operated by users to initiate manage monitor or otherwise interact with print jobs at the three dimensional printers . This may include desktop computers laptop computers network computers tablets or any other computing device that can participate in the environment as contemplated herein. Each client device generally provides a user interface which may include a graphical user interface a text or command line interface a voice controlled interface and or a gesture based interface to control operation of remote three dimensional printers . The user interface may be maintained by a locally executing application on one of the client devices that receives data and status information from e.g. the printers and print servers concerning pending or executing print jobs. The user interface may create a suitable display on the client device for user interaction. In other embodiments the user interface may be remotely served and presented on one of the client devices such as where a print server or one of the three dimensional printers includes a web server that provides information through one or more web pages or the like that can be displayed within a web browser or similar client executing on one of the client devices . In one aspect the user interface may include a voice controlled interface that receives spoken commands from a user and or provides spoken feedback to the user.

The print servers may include data storage a network interface and a processor and or other processing circuitry. In the following description where the functions or configuration of a print server are described this is intended to include corresponding functions or configuration e.g. by programming of a processor of the print server . In general the print servers or processors thereof may perform a variety of processing tasks related to management of networked printing. For example the print servers may manage print jobs received from one or more of the client devices and provide related supporting functions such as content search and management. A print server may also include a web server that provides web based access by the client devices to the capabilities of the print server . A print server may also communicate periodically with three dimensional printers in order to obtain status information concerning e.g. availability of printers and or the status of particular print jobs any of which may be subsequently presented to a user through the web server or any other suitable interface. A print server may also maintain a list of available three dimensional printers and may automatically select one of the three dimensional printers for a user submitted print job or may permit a user to specify a single printer or a group of preferred printers for fabricating an object. Where the print server selects the printer automatically any number of criteria may be used such as geographical proximity printing capabilities current print queue fees if any for use of a particular three dimensional printer and so forth. Where the user specifies criteria this may similarly include any relevant aspects of three dimensional printers and may permit use of absolute criteria e.g. filters or preferences which may be weighted preferences or unweighted preferences any of which may be used by a print server to allocate a print job to a suitable resource.

In one aspect the print server may be configured to support interactive voice control of one of the printers . For example the print server may be configured to receive a voice signal e.g. in digitized audio form from a microphone or other audio input of the printer and to process the voice signal to extract relevant content such as a command for the printer. Where the command is recognized as a print command the voice signal may be further processed to extract additional context or relevant details. For example the voice signal may be processed to extract an object identifier that specifies an object for printing e.g. by filename file metadata or semantic content. The voice signal may also be processed to extract a dimensional specification such as a scale or absolute dimension for an object. The print server may then generate suitable control signals for return to the printer to cause the printer to fabricate the object. Where an error or omission is detected the print server may return a request for clarification to the printer which may render the request in spoken form through a speaker or within a user interface of the printer or an associated device.

Other user preferences may be usefully stored at the print server to facilitate autonomous unsupervised fabrication of content from content sources . For example a print server may store a user s preference on handling objects greater than a build volume of a printer. These preferences may control whether to resize the object whether to break the object into multiple sub objects for fabrication and whether to transmit multiple sub objects to a single printer or multiple printers. In addition user preferences or requirements may be stored such as multi color printing capability build material options and capabilities and so forth. More generally a print queue which may be a printer specific or user specific queue and which may be hosted at a printer a server or some combination of these may be managed by a print server according to one or more criteria from a remote user requesting a print job. The print server may also store user preferences or criteria for filtering content e.g. for automatic printing or other handling. While this is described below as a feature for autonomous operation of a printer such as a printer that locally subscribes to a syndicated model source any criteria that can be used to identify models of potential interest by explicit type e.g. labeled in model metadata implicit type e.g. determined based on analysis of the model source and so forth may be provided to the print server and used to automatically direct new content to one or more user specified ones of the three dimensional printers .

In the context of voice controlled printing the print server may usefully store user specific data such as training for a voice recognition model. The print server may also or instead store voice rendering data to use in generating spoken output by the printer . This may for example include voice type data voice model data voice sample data and so forth. Thus for example a user may purchase or otherwise obtain a voice style e.g. a celebrity voice or other personality to render spoken commands and maintain the voice style on the print server . The print server may also or instead store data characterizing capabilities of the printer so that voice commands received at the print server can be analyzed for suitability accuracy and so forth according to the capabilities of the printer from which the voice command was received. More generally any data or processing for voice interaction that can be usefully stored or executed remotely from the printer may be located at the printer server . It will be understood that any such data may also or instead be stored on a client device a printer or some combination of these.

In one aspect the processor of the print server may be configured to store a plurality of print jobs submitted to the web server in a log and to provide an analysis of print activity based on the log. This may include any type of analysis that might be useful to participants in the environment . For example the analysis may include tracking of the popularity of particular objects or of particular content sources. The analysis may include tracking of which three dimensional printers are most popular or least popular or related statistics such as the average backlog of pending print jobs at a number of the three dimensional printers . The analysis may include success of a particular printer in fabricating a particular model or of a particular printer in completing print jobs generally. More generally any statistics or data may be obtained and any analysis may be performed that might be useful to users e.g. when requesting prints content sources e.g. when choosing new printable objects for publication providers of fabrication resources e.g. when setting fees or network facilitators such as the print servers .

A print server may also maintain a database of content along with an interface for users at client devices to search the database and request fabrication of objects in the database using any of the three dimensional printers . Thus in one aspect a print server or any system including the print server may include a database of three dimensional models and the print server may act as a server that provides a search engine for locating a particular three dimensional model in the database . The search engine may be a text based search engine using keyword text queries plain language queries and so forth. The search engine may also or instead include an image based search engine configured to identify three dimensional models similar to a two dimensional or three dimensional image provide by a user.

In another aspect the printer server may periodically search for suitable content at remote locations on the data network which content may be retrieved to the database or have its remote location e.g. a URL or other network location identifier stored in the database . In another aspect the print server may provide an interface for submission of objects from remote users along with any suitable metadata such as a title tags creator information descriptive narrative pictures recommended printer settings and so forth. In one aspect the database may be manually curated according to any desired standards. In another aspect printable objects in the database may be manually or automatically annotated according to content type popularity editorial commentary and so forth.

The print server may more generally provide a variety of management functions. For example the print server may store a location of a predetermined alternative three dimensional printer to execute a print job from a remote user in the event of a failure by the one of the plurality of three dimensional printers . In another aspect the print server may maintain exclusive control over at least one of the plurality of three dimensional printers such that other users and or print servers cannot control the printer. In another aspect the print server may submit a print job to a first available one of the plurality of three dimensional printers .

In another aspect a print server may provide an interface for managing subscriptions to sources of content. This may include tools for searching existing subscriptions locating or specifying new sources subscribing to sources of content and so forth. In one aspect a print server may manage subscriptions and automatically direct new content from these subscriptions to a three dimensional printer according to any user specified criteria. Thus while it is contemplated that a three dimensional printer may autonomously subscribe to sources of content through a network interface and receive new content directly from such sources it is also contemplated that this feature may be maintained through a remote resource such as a print server .

A print server may maintain print queues for participating three dimensional printers . This approach may advantageously alleviate backlogs at individual printers which may have limited memory capacity for pending print jobs. More generally a print server may by communicating with multiple three dimensional printers obtain a view of utilization of multiple networked resources that permits a more efficient allocation of print jobs than would be possible through simple point to point communications among users and printers. Print queues may also be published by a print server so that users can view pending queues for a variety of different three dimensional printers prior to selecting a resource for a print job. In one aspect the print queue may be published as a number of print jobs and size of print jobs so that a requester can evaluate likely delays. In another aspect the print queue may be published as an estimated time until a newly submitted print job can be initiated.

In one aspect the print queue of one of the print servers may include one or more print jobs for one of the plurality of three dimensional printers . The print queue may be stored locally at the one of the plurality of three dimensional printers. In another aspect the print queue may be allocated between the database and a local memory of the three dimensional printer . In another aspect the print queue may be stored for example in the database of the print server . As used here the term print queue is intended to include print data e.g. the three dimensional model or tool instructions to fabricate an object for a number of print job which may be arranged for presentation in order of expected execution as well as any metadata concerning print jobs. Thus a portion of the print queue such as the metadata e.g. size status time to completion may be usefully communicated to a print server for sharing among users while another portion of the print queue such as the model data may be stored at a printer in preparation for execution of a print job.

Print queues may implement various user preferences on prioritization. For example for a commercial enterprise longer print jobs may be deferred for after normal hours of operation e.g. after 5 00 p.m. while shorter print jobs may be executed first if they can be completed before the end of a business day. In this manner objects can be identified and fabricated from within the print queue in a manner that permits as many objects as possible to be fabricated before a predetermined closing time. Similarly commercial providers of fabrication services may charge explicitly for prioritized fabrication and implement this prioritization by prioritizing print queues in a corresponding fashion.

In another aspect a print server may provide a virtual workspace for a user. In this virtual workspace a user may search local or remote databases of printable objects save objects of interest or links thereto manage pending prints specify preferences for receiving status updates e.g. by electronic mail or SMS text manage subscriptions to content search for new subscription sources and so forth. In one aspect the virtual workspace may be or may include web based design tools or a web based design interface that permits a user to create and modify models. In one aspect the virtual workspace may be deployed on the web while permitting direct fabrication of a model developed within that environment on a user specified one of the three dimensional printers thus enabling a web based design environment that is directly coupled to one or more fabrication resources.

The content sources may include any sources of content for fabrication with a three dimensional printer . This may for example include databases of objects accessible through a web interface or application programming interface. This may also or instead include individual desktop computers or the like configured as a server for hosted access or configured to operate as a peer in a peer to peer network. This may also or instead include content subscription services which may be made available in an unrestricted fashion or may be made available on a paid subscription basis or on an authenticated basis based upon some other relationship e.g. purchase of a related product or a ticket to an event . It will be readily appreciated that any number of content providers may serve as content sources as contemplated herein. By way of non limiting example the content sources may include destinations such as amusement parks museums theaters performance venues or the like any of which may provide content related to users who purchase tickets. The content sources may include manufacturers such as automobile computer consumer electronics or home appliance manufacturers any of which may provide content related to upgrades maintenance repair or other support of existing products that have been purchased. The content sources may include artists or other creative enterprises that sell various works of interest. The content sources may include engineering or architectural firms that provide marketing or advertising pieces to existing or prospective customers. The content sources may include marketing or advertising firms that provide promotional items for clients. More generally the content sources may be any individual or enterprise that provides single or serial objects for fabrication by the three dimensional printers described herein.

One or more web servers may provide web based access to and from any of the other participants in the environment . While depicted as a separate network entity it will be readily appreciated that a web server may be logically or physically associated with one of the other devices described herein and may for example provide a user interface for web access to one of the three dimensional printers one of the print servers or databases coupled thereto one of the content sources or any of the other resources described below in a manner that permits user interaction through the data network e.g. from a client device or mobile device .

The mobile devices may be any form of mobile device such as any wireless battery powered device that might be used to interact with the networked printing environment . The mobile devices may for example include laptop computers tablets thin client network computers portable digital assistants messaging devices cellular phones smart phones portable media or entertainment devices and so forth. In general mobile devices may be operated by users for a variety of user oriented functions such as to locate printable objects to submit objects for printing to monitor a personally owned printer and or to monitor a pending print job. A mobile device may include location awareness technology such as Global Positioning System GPS which may obtain information that can be usefully integrated into a printing operation in a variety of ways. For example a user may select an object for printing and submit a model of the object to a print server such as any of the print servers described above. The print server may determine a location of the mobile device initiating the print job and locate a closest printer for fabrication of the object.

In another aspect a printing function may be location based using the GPS input or cellular network triangulation proximity detection or any other suitable location detection techniques . For example a user may be authorized to print a model only when the user is near a location e.g. within a geo fenced area or otherwise proximal to a location or only after a user has visited a location. Thus a user may be provided with printable content based upon locations that the user has visited or while within a certain venue such as an amusement park museum theater sports arena hotel or the like. Similarly a matrix barcode such as a QR code may be employed for localization.

The other resources may include any other software or hardware resources that may be usefully employed in networked printing applications as contemplated herein. For example the other resources may include payment processing servers or platforms used to authorize payment for content subscriptions content purchases or printing resources. As another example the other resources may include social networking platforms that may be used e.g. to share three dimensional models and or fabrication results according to a user s social graph. In another aspect the other resources may include certificate servers or other security resources for third party verification of identity encryption or decryption of three dimensional models and so forth. In another aspect the other resources may include online tools for three dimensional design or modeling as well as databases of objects surface textures build supplies and so forth. In another aspect the other resources may include a desktop computer or the like co located e.g. on the same local area network with or directly coupled to through a serial or USB cable with one of the three dimensional printers . In this case the other resource may provide supplemental functions for the three dimensional printer in a networked printing context such as maintaining a print queue or operating a web server for remote interaction with the three dimensional printer . Other resources also include supplemental resources such as three dimensional scanners cameras and post processing finishing machines or resources. More generally any resource that might be usefully integrated into a networked printing environment may be one of the resources as contemplated herein.

It will be readily appreciated that the various components of the networked printing environment described above may be arranged and configured to support networked printing in a variety of ways. For example in one aspect there is disclosed herein a networked computer with a print server and a web interface to support networked three dimensional printing. This device may include a print server a database and a web server as discussed above. The print server may be coupled through a data network to a plurality of three dimensional printers and configured to receive status information from one or more sensors for each one of the plurality of three dimensional printers. The print server may be further configured to manage a print queue for each one of the plurality of three dimensional printers. The database may be coupled in a communicating relationship with the print server and configured to store print queue data and status information for each one of the plurality of three dimensional printers. The web server may be configured to provide a user interface over the data network to a remote user the user interface adapted to present the status information and the print queue data for one or more of the plurality of three dimensional printers to the user and the user interface adapted to receive a print job from the remote user for one of the plurality of three dimensional printers.

The three dimensional printer described above may be configured to autonomously subscribe to syndicated content sources and periodically receive and print objects from those sources. Thus in one aspect there is disclosed herein a device including any of the three dimensional printers described above a network interface and a processor which may without limitation include the controller for the printer . The processor may be configured to subscribe to a plurality of sources of content such as the content sources described above selected by a user for fabrication by the three dimensional printer through the network interface. The processor may be further configured to receive one or more three dimensional models from the plurality of content sources and to select one of the one or more three dimensional models for fabrication by the three dimensional printer according to a user preference for prioritization. The user preference may for example preferentially prioritize particular content sources or particular types of content e.g. tools games artwork upgrade parts or content related to a particular interest of the user .

The memory of a three dimensional printer may be configured to store a queue of one or more additional three dimensional models not selected for immediate fabrication. The processor may be programmed to periodically re order or otherwise alter the queue according to pre determined criteria or manual user input. For example the processor may be configured to evaluate a new three dimensional model based upon a user preference for prioritization and to place the new three dimensional model at a corresponding position in the queue. The processor may also or instead be configured to retrieve content from one of the content sources by providing authorization credentials for the user which may be stored at the three dimensional printer or otherwise accessible for presentation to the content source . The processor may be configured to retrieve content from at least one of the plurality of content sources by authorizing a payment from the user to a content provider. The processor may be configured to search a second group of sources of content such as any of the content sources described above according to one or more search criteria provide by a user. This may also or instead include demographic information for the user contextual information for the user or any other implicit or explicit user information.

In another aspect there is disclosed herein a system for managing subscriptions to three dimensional content sources such as any of the content sources described above. The system may include a web server configured to provide a user interface over a data network which user interface is adapted to receive user preferences from a user including a subscription to a plurality of sources of a plurality of three dimensional models a prioritization of content from the plurality of sources and an identification of one or more fabrication resources coupled to the data network and suitable for fabricating objects from the plurality of three dimensional models. The system may also include a database to store the user preferences and to receive and store the plurality of three dimensional models as they are issued by the plurality of sources. The system may include a processor e.g. of a print server or alternatively of a client device interacting with the print server configured to select one of the plurality of three dimensional models for fabrication based upon the prioritization. The system may include a print server configured to communicate with the one or more fabrication resources through the data network to determine an availability of the one or more fabrication resources and to transmit the selected one of the plurality of three dimensional models to one of the one or more fabrication resources.

In another aspect there is disclosed herein a network of three dimensional printing resources comprising a plurality of three dimensional printers each one of the plurality of three dimensional printers including a network interface a server configured to manage execution of a plurality of print jobs by the plurality of three dimensional printers and a data network that couples the server and the plurality of three dimensional printers in a communicating relationship.

In general as described above the server may include a web based user interface configured for a user to submit a new print job to the server and to monitor progress of the new print job. The web based user interface may permit video monitoring of each one of the plurality of three dimensional printers or otherwise provide information useful to a remote user including image based simulation based textual based or other information concerning status of a current print. The web based user interface may include voice input and or output for network based voice control of a printer.

The fabrication resources may for example include any of the three dimensional printers described above. One or more of the fabrication resources may be a private fabrication resource secured with a credential based access system. The user may provide as a user preference and prior to use of the private fabrication resource credentials for accessing the private fabrication resource. In another aspect the one or more fabrication resources may include a commercial fabrication resource. In this case the user may provide an authorization to pay for use of the commercial fabrication resource in the form of a user preference prior to use of the commercial fabrication resource.

Many current three dimensional printers require significant manufacturing time to fabricate an object. At the same time certain printers may include a tool or system to enable multiple sequential object prints without human supervision or intervention such as a conveyor belt. In this context prioritizing content may be particularly important to prevent crowding out of limited fabrication resources with low priority content that arrives periodically for autonomous fabrication. As a significant advantage the systems and methods described herein permit prioritization using a variety of user specified criteria and permit use of multiple fabrication resources in appropriate circumstances. Thus prioritizing content as contemplated herein may include any useful form of prioritization. For example this may include prioritizing the content according to source. The content sources may have an explicit type that specifies the nature of the source e.g. commercial or paid content promotional content product support content non commercial or the type of content provided e.g. automotive consumer electronics radio control hobbyist contest prizes and so forth . Prioritizing content may include prioritizing the content according to this type. The three dimensional models themselves may also or instead include a type e.g. tool game home art jewelry replacement part upgrade part etc. or any other metadata and prioritizing the content may includes prioritizing the content according to this type and or metadata.

In one aspect the processor may be configured to select two or more of the plurality of three dimensional models for concurrent fabrication by two or more of the plurality of fabrication resources based upon the prioritization when a priority of the two or more of the plurality of three dimensional models exceeds a predetermined threshold. That is where particular models individually have a priority above the predetermined threshold multiple fabrication resources may be located and employed to fabricate these models concurrently. The predetermined threshold may be evaluated for each model individually or for all of the models collectively such as on an aggregate or average basis.

In one aspect the processor may be configured to adjust prioritization based upon a history of fabrication when a number of objects fabricated from one of the plurality of sources exceeds a predetermined threshold. Thus for example a user may limit the number of objects fabricated from a particular source giving subsequent priority to content from other sources regardless of an objectively determined priority for a new object from the particular source. This prevents a single source from overwhelming a single fabrication resource such as a personal three dimensional printer operated by the user in a manner that crowds out other content from other sources of possible interest. At the same time this may enable content sources to publish on any convenient schedule without regard to whether and how subscribers will be able to fabricate objects.

In another aspect the processor may be configured to identify one or more additional sources of content based upon a similarity to one of the plurality of sources of content. For example where a content source is an automotive manufacturer the processor may perform a search for other automotive manufactures related parts suppliers mechanics and so forth. The processor may also or instead be configured to identify one or more additional sources of content based upon a social graph of the user. This may for example include analyzing a social graph of relationships from the user to identify groups with common interests shared professions a shared history of schools or places of employment or a common current or previous residence location any of which may be used to locate other sources of content that may be of interest to the user.

The process may include receiving a voice signal as shown in step . This may for example include receiving an audio signal from a microphone or other audio input of the additive fabrication system or from a computer locally coupled to the additive fabrication system. The microphone or an associated controller may capture acoustic energy directly as digital audio or an analog signal from the microphone may be digitized as appropriate using any suitable hardware and or software.

The process may include processing the voice signal as shown in step . It will be appreciated that this processing step may include a wide range of speech recognition techniques such as voice recognition speech recognition keyword analysis semantic analysis and so forth.

For example processing the voice signal may include voice recognition using any known techniques to identify a speaker. In this manner the process may include authenticating a user based upon the voice signal. Voice based user authentication may be used e.g. to limit access to a fabrication resource to one or more predetermined users or to separate spoken commands by one of the predetermined users from other voices and noise within an audio environment of the fabrication resource.

In another aspect processing the voice signal may include word or phrase extraction. So for example the voice signal may be processed to extract a command for the additive fabrication system as well as any other useful information. In general a syntax for voice control of an additive fabrication system is contemplated as containing the following components global identifier command object identifier dimensional specification print parameter print parameter . . . . The global identifier may be any voice preamble to identify a spoken printer command. This may include the name of the printer or other fabrication resource or some other global or machine specific indicator. The command may be any command recognizable by the printer or interpretable as one or more commands recognizable by the printer. While an instruction to print is one form of command other maintenance functions and the like may also or instead be spoken such as a command to calibrate load build material run a script or batch file stop a print pause a print and so forth. Any number of optional parameters may be specified according to a particular command. The parameters for a print command are discussed below by way of an exemplary embodiment of this general syntax. Such a print command may provide an instruction to fabricate an object and information may be extracted according to the syntax such as an object identifier and or a dimensional specification for fabricating the object. In addition to the preamble the syntax may permit or require a terminator indicating the end of a spoken command which may simplify and speed up subsequent processing by explicitly identifying the conclusion of the spoken command.

The object identifier may specify a three dimensional model of an object which may be for example a stereolithography file e.g. STL a computer aided design file e.g. CAD a tool instruction file e.g. gcode or any other computerized representation of an object suitable for fabrication. The object identifier may specify the object or model by filename file metadata or any other identifying information useful for locating a file corresponding to the requested object. In one aspect a user may explicitly specify a file name e.g. by stating file . . . . In another aspect the user may explicitly specify an object e.g. by stating coaster . The processing may optionally include any amount of machine intelligence that can identify files for objects of interest based upon a spoken request.

The dimensional specification may provide any dimensional information useful for fabricating the object. For example the dimensional specification may include a scale of the object. This may be a relative scale such as a percentage of a working volume of a printer or a scale relative to some absolute dimensions of the object model. This may also include a physical dimension of the object. For example a user may specify a height e.g. z axis a width or a depth of the fabricated object in physical dimensions such as inches or centimeters. The dimensional specification may also or instead include combinations of these such as by specifying an object height of 50 of the height of the working volume. The dimensional specification may also include independent scaling of different dimensions such as by specifying a reduction of the object in a single dimension.

Other information may optionally be included with a print command. For example where a printer has a supply of multiple different build materials a user may provide and the processor may be configured to extract from the voice signal a build material specification that is used to select a type of the build material for the additive fabrication system to fabricate the object. This may include a color specification used to select a color of the build material. The type may more generally be one of a number of different types of material such as support materials versus build materials or various types of polymers having different properties for strength solubility elasticity and so forth. Additional processing may be provided during fabrication subsequent to this type of request command. For example where the additive fabrication system contains suitable instrumentation such as a camera or other sensor to detect the type of material actually being used to build an object the process may include detecting the material type and comparing to the requested type to confirm that the actual build corresponds to the requested build.

Other print parameters may also or instead be included with a print command and the voice signal may be processed to extract any such parameters. For example a processor may extract parameters relating to a print such as an infill percentage a layer thickness a tool temperature a tool speed a material deposition rate and so forth. Other print parameters may also or instead include general parameters such as a request to optimize for relative speed of a print e.g. fast medium or slow weight of an object strength of an object quality of a print and so forth. Other parameters may include e.g. a number of objects to print in which case additional processing may be provided in order to automatically position multiple objects on a build platform. Or where a printer can pause and restart a print the parameters may include a specification of a maximum unattended duration of print after which the printer may ask for a manual confirmation to proceed. The syntax may similarly support a command to resume printing after a user initiated or automatic pause.

More generally any parameter or group of parameters for a print or more generally any other command may be spoken and interpreted by the printer. While the general syntax described above contemplates specific keywords optionally including related values a variety of natural speech techniques or the like may also or instead be employed to extract meaning relevant to a print command from the voice signal and all such variations that would be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art are intended to fall within the scope of this invention.

While the use of a predetermined syntax and more specifically a syntax adapted to three dimensional printing can greatly simplify speech recognition and interactive voice control by restricting the computational task to the context of the three dimensional printer it will also be appreciated that a wide range of natural language processing techniques are known in the art that may be usefully employed with a voice controlled three dimensional printer as contemplated herein.

The process may also provide feedback requesting clarification or disambiguation which feedback may be spoken feedback using speech synthesis or visual or textual feedback displayed on a monitor associated with the fabrication resource. Similarly an audible tone or the like me be used to generally prompt a user for action. Thus where a user requests a print of a boat the fabrication resource may provide a spoken response such as Okay I have found three boats named x y and z. This notion is discussed below under the rubric of errors although requests for feedback more generally contemplate clarifications for any omission ambiguity inconsistency or other result of a malformed incomplete or otherwise uninterpretable spoken command. Similarly feedback or an error may relate to machine readiness or other items that may arise despite a syntactically perfect spoken command.

The process may include error checking as shown in step . If errors are detected then the process may proceed to step where a user is notified. If no errors are detected then the process may proceed to additional steps such as executing the command. In general error checking may include any analysis of the command for errors ambiguities inconsistencies omissions and so forth. The error may relate to the command such as where the command is unrecognized or where the command is recognized as a known command but the additional information does not corresponding to the known command. The error may also or instead include an incomplete command such as where at least one element e.g. a required element is missing. For example a command to print may require a specific object or file to be identified. If no object identifier is provided then this missing element may be identified as an error. Similarly where an object identifier is provided in the voice signal but the object identifier cannot be correlated to any printable object this may cause an error. An error may also or instead occur if the object identifier requires disambiguation to identify a unique printable object from a number of potentially responsive files objects.

Any required elements for a recognized command may be searched for in the voice signal and an error may be reported when such a required element is missing. For example a print may require a dimensional specification which if missing will cause an error when analyzing the voice signal. In another aspect the dimensional specification may be present but still contain an error. This may be referenced to print capabilities such as where the dimensional specification includes or results in a dimension that exceeds the build volume of the additive fabrication system. Similarly an error may be caused by a dimensional specification that exceeds some other dimensional processing capability of the additive fabrication system such as where the object is smaller than a print resolution of the additive fabrication system or where the object contains features smaller than the print resolution.

In general error checking as contemplated herein may occur at any time during the process and may be continuously performed or performed at one or more discrete times during the process or some combination of these. Thus while error checking is depicted as a single event in the flow chart of it will be understood that checking a voice signal or commands therein for errors is not so limited. For example certain types of errors may not manifest until a print is initiated or until during a print e.g. a machine error due to exhaustion of build material . In addition it will be appreciated that different types of error checking may be performed at different times within the process .

Error checking might also include precautions against the vagaries of spoken human communication. An indecisive user might say MakerBot make me a cube three inches tall. No wait that should probably be two inches tall. No not a cube. What s that thing with unequal sides A rectangular prism. No no wait the cube is right after all. Just make it two inches. A voice processor can parse this rambling command to the best of its abilities and it might reach a definitive semantic conclusion or it might not. But where there are signs of uncertainty the process should at least request some form of confirmation before taking further steps. So a spoken request for confirmation might be issued as follows Okay I am going to print a cube two inches tall. Shall I begin 

The process may include notifying a user of errors as shown in step . For example the processor may be configured to identify an error in the voice signal and to request a clarification for the error with spoken output through the speaker. Any other form of notification may also or instead be used such as by displaying the notification on a screen or using any other audible or visual indicator.

The process may include executing a command with an additive fabrication system based upon the voice signal as shown in step . For example when the command includes a print command the process may cause the additive fabrication system to execute the print command based upon the object identifier and the dimensional specification and or based upon any other information relevant to the print command. As another example where the command queries the additive fabrication system for status information or the like the additive fabrication system may execute the command with a spoken response or any other suitable response .

The process may include providing status updates while a command is executing as shown in step . For example the additive fabrication system or a processor thereof may be configured to provide a status update as spoken output through the speaker or through any other user interface device s and or techniques. The status update may relate to completion of a build. This may include status updates on a predetermined periodic basis e.g. every ten minutes or at predetermined milestones during a build e.g. deciles of completion or upon the occurrence of events such as when an error occurs or when a build is completed. The status updates may also or instead relate to availability of the additive fabrication system including an indication of whether or not the system is ready and where the system is unavailable an expected time until the system will be ready to execute the command in the voice signal. The status updates may also or instead relate to instrumentation of the additive fabrication system such as information concerning tool temperatures or hardware error conditions.

As described above an additive fabrication resource may be provided with an interactive voice recognition module for voice controlled printing. In general speech recognition is a very complex problem. Vocalizations vary in terms of accent pronunciation articulation roughness nasality pitch volume and speed. Speech can also be distorted by a background noise and echoes electrical characteristics and so forth. Thus accuracy of speech recognition can vary with vocabulary size and confusability the presence of multiple speakers whether the speech is isolated or continuous whether the words are read aloud or spontaneous and so forth. Against this complex backdrop the computational complexity of voice processing may be substantially improved by specifically addressing a limited vocabulary of printer relevant commands and related parameters.

A variety of techniques have been developed for voice recognition on one hand e.g. Hidden Markov Models or Dynamic Time Warping and speech synthesis on the other. These may be implemented in software hardware or some combination of these to generally support voice input and output for a printer. Similarly a variety of natural language processing tools are known in the art any of which may be adapted for use in semantic analysis of printer related spoken commands and or suitable responses. Currently there are a variety of commercially available tools for the design and implementation of interactive voice interfaces including without limitation open source projects such as CMU Sphinx Julius simon iATROS RWTH ASR and SHoUT as well as a variety of applications for mobile devices PC s and Apple products. These and related techniques may be configured to provide a voice based user interface to a three dimensional printer as described above.

More complex commands may also be supported such as commands to merge multiple objects files in which case details about scale and orientation might be requested or commands to execute scripts or other commands by the printer. In another aspect more complex commands relating to networked printing may be issued such as commands to post share new models or pictures of successful prints or commands to search networked sources for content. With suitable software support more complex commands may also be spoken to and processed by a printer.

Using these techniques a variety of simple and complex printing and maintenance functions may be performed including various types of interactive voice control. For example where a search for an object within available resources which may be based upon file names metadata such as tags and descriptions and so forth does not yield any results a spoken request for clarification may be issued in any suitable form or when multiple objects are found a spoken request for disambiguation may be issued. Similarly where the scale or dimensions exceed a build volume for a printer a user may be queried whether to fit to the build volume or divide the model into multiple parts for which mechanical registration connections may be automatically generated .

In this manner a wide range of spoken commands may be accurately interpreted by a printer to achieve user desired affects. By way of example and not limitation a spoken command might be 

The use of voice input might also prompt a wide range of interpretive modes less strictly tied to the literal content of a spoken command. For example a hopeful user might say MakerBot tea Earl Grey hot. Of course the printer would not ordinarily fabricate tea out of ABS plastic and it would be an unusual printer indeed that had immediate access to hot Earl Gray tea. But a speech recognition system might programmatically identify this reference to one of the catch phrases of a legendary starship commander and respond in kind by fabricating a replica of Captain Picard s tea cup perhaps even invoking an appropriate spoken response such as Yes Captain. 

Similarly when parsing a spoken command a user s context can be taken into account. So if a user says MakerBot make me the sports stadium I was at last night the processor can upon recognizing this request recall GPS or other location data for the user such as from the user s cell phone and correlate this to a stadium that can in turn be used to locate relevant printable models. A particularly clever program might look elsewhere for relevant information such within as a user s computerized address book or online calendar for corresponding events that are calendared for the preceding day or within financial software that might contain records of ticket purchases. However obtained the contextual information may be used to identify models for printing and or to parameterize the model or a request to print the model.

A bit of discretion is advisable when a printer can act on the basis of spoken input. It may be nice to have a printer that is always ready to receive a spoken print command and that responds without question to urgent requests to abort a print gone awry. But a printer s ability to autonomously execute print commands without any confirmation can lead to a variety of difficulties. The printer s queue might fill up with day s worth of unwanted print jobs. Or worse the printer might go off and start printing undesirable objects on the basis of snippets of background conversation. So there are times when user confirmations are appropriate and other times when they are not. Such things being within the skill of a typical programmer the details are not recounted here except to say that a well behaved printer will selectively solicit spoken confirmations from a user.

In another aspect background monitoring creates some interesting possibilities for a printer. Consider a printer with voice control situated in a room near a television. The printer could be easily configured to print objects in response to voice cues from a televised actor. When an actor in a television program issues a print command the printer which can apply voice recognition to confidently identify the actor might respond by printing a topical object. The print command can be surreptitiously buried in dialogue and serve more as a queue to print that a conventional print command. Or the print command might be a reasonable analog for a print command. So if a televised broadcast includes the following dialogue Wonder Twin powers activate Form of a bunny a printer may respond by fabricating a bunny which could be any available bunny model or a specific bunny model linked to that print command.

It will also be appreciated that various techniques may be usefully employed to shift processing intensive steps of speech processing to remote sources. For example an audio input and suitable processing circuitry may be used on a printer to digitize voice commands as a voice sample. The voice sample may then be transmitted to a personal computer coupled to the printer. The personal computer may process the voice sample e.g. for speaker identification also referred to in the art as voice recognition and or speech recognition or the personal computer may transmit the voice sample to a remote resource such as a web site or other networked resource for processing and extraction of words and or meaning.

In one aspect the local personal computer may perform voice recognition to determine whether the identity of the speaker corresponds to a user with authority to issue commands to the printer. In this manner access control may be implicitly supported by limiting voice interactions to authorized users. The speech recognition may then be performed locally or remotely e.g. at a remote print server as generally contemplated above. Thus in one aspect there is disclosed herein a remote speech recognition server for use with a three dimensional printer. The remote speech recognition server may use any of the techniques described above where some or all of the processing such as the computationally expensive processing is performed on the server. In another aspect a remote resource may be a printing specific speech recognition system adapted to identify printer related commands and to identify ambiguities in such commands requiring clarification. Required clarifications may be communicated back to the personal computer and or printer as specific word sequences for synthesized spoken output or as text or the like that can be locally interpreted again by the printer or the personal computer for display and or speech output in any suitable manner.

It will be appreciated that the various steps identified and described above may be varied and that the order of steps may be adapted to particular applications of the techniques disclosed herein. All such variations and modifications are intended to fall within the scope of this disclosure. As such the depiction and or description of an order for various steps should not be understood to require a particular order of execution for those steps unless required by a particular application or explicitly stated or otherwise clear from the context.

A printer equipped for audio monitoring may adapt this hardware and associated processing for other audio based monitoring. For example after a print has been initiated the printer may monitor for spoken commands such as stop or pause. In this context the processing may include voice recognition as described above in order to determine whether the speaker is an authorized user. In this manner the impact of background noise and conversation on an operating machine can be mitigated. Audio monitoring may also be extended to check for non spoken input.

For example a microphone may listen to operation of a machine for possible error conditions such as a stopped build which may manifest as an untimely silence or motor driven hardware that has moved to a mechanical stop without detection by other system hardware software. This latter condition can manifest as a somewhat unsettling grinding thunking or chunking sound. Sometimes this audio bark is worse than its bite but it is possible to inflict substantial damage to a fabrication system when using powerful DC motors to push things in directions that they were not intended to go. This type of audible hardware malfunction can be easily detected in an audio signal. And so a microphone and processor configured to monitor for various audio stopping conditions might provide a useful safeguard to a user s beloved three dimensional printer particularly at those times when the user is not there to personally intervene.

As shown in step the process may include processing the voice signal. This may include parsing the voice signal for voice commands that initiate interactive voice response.

For example the voice command may initiate a three dimensional modeling process in which a user interactively provides information to create a model for fabrication. A variety of techniques are known for creating and maintaining computerized interactive voice sessions and the details are omitted here for simplicity. Suffice it to say that an interactive voice session may be hosted in a variety of locations e.g. a remote server a printer or a local device such as a computer or smart phone and may use a fixed or dynamic contextual dialogue flow or of course some of both . Where the flow is fixed the structure of the dialogue might come from any suitable source. For example a website may provide customizable three dimensional models that can be personalized with text or otherwise modified in different ways according to various parameters. The website may explicitly provide a series of questions in any suitable form to permit spoken customization according to these parameters. So a dialogue with an interactive voice response system IVRS might go something like 

This may proceed through any number of requests for additional information as shown in steps and where each new request which may be spoken or displayed on a screen or the like is received as a new voice signal as the process returns to step .

This dialogue may accommodate voice controlled modeling in a three dimensional modeling environment with commands such as stretch the model 10 on the x axis or place a cube underneath a trophy. Where a term such as trophy is not unambiguously linked to a particular object model clarification may be requested. So for example the IVRS might as the user to identify or provide a specific model Where can I find a model of a trophy or the IVRS might search for potentially relevant models and request confirmation I found three models of trophies. Would you like me to use . . . . Similarly a dynamic dialogue might use questions based upon printer capabilities. For example the request for information might be What color would you like to use I can print in red or yellow. 

And so the process can cycle through any number of predetermined or dynamically generated questions until enough information is obtained to fabricate an object.

As shown in step the process may then include requesting confirmation. This request may be spoken and may include various user selected details of the build. For example a voice may state I am going to build a two inch trophy on top of a two inch cube. Shall I proceed 

As shown in step the process may include receiving a confirmation which may be a confirmation spoken by the user. The confirmation may in general take any form. For example the confirmation may have a strict syntax where the only acceptable confirmation is e.g. yes. Or the confirmation may have an open syntax where any form of affirmation will be accepted. This may include phrases such as yes please go for it engage sure thing or you bet. Similarly a confirmation may be manually entered using a keyboard mouse or other input device.

In this general manner a wide range of interactive modeling and print control processes may be realized through spoken dialogue and all such variations that would be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art are intended to fall within the scope of this disclosure.

The methods or processes described above and steps thereof may be realized in hardware software or any combination of these suitable for a particular application. The hardware may include a general purpose computer and or dedicated computing device. The processes may be realized in one or more microprocessors microcontrollers embedded microcontrollers programmable digital signal processors or other programmable device along with internal and or external memory. The processes may also or instead be embodied in an application specific integrated circuit a programmable gate array programmable array logic or any other device or combination of devices that may be configured to process electronic signals. It will further be appreciated that one or more of the processes may be realized as computer executable code created using a structured programming language such as C an object oriented programming language such as C or any other high level or low level programming language including assembly languages hardware description languages and database programming languages and technologies that may be stored compiled or interpreted to run on one of the above devices as well as heterogeneous combinations of processors processor architectures or combinations of different hardware and software.

Thus in one aspect each method described above and combinations thereof may be embodied in computer executable code that when executing on one or more computing devices performs the steps thereof. In another aspect the methods may be embodied in systems that perform the steps thereof and may be distributed across devices in a number of ways or all of the functionality may be integrated into a dedicated standalone device or other hardware. In another aspect means for performing the steps associated with the processes described above may include any of the hardware and or software described above. All such permutations and combinations are intended to fall within the scope of the present disclosure.

While particular embodiments of the present invention have been shown and described it will be apparent to those skilled in the art that various changes and modifications in form and details may be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope of this disclosure and are intended to form a part of the invention as defined by the following claims which are to be interpreted in the broadest sense allowable by law.

