---

title: Monitoring fitness using a mobile device
abstract: Athletic performance monitoring and tracking may provide multiple ways in which to track athletic movement and activity. In one example, an athletic monitoring device may include or be associated with multiple types of movement sensors and switch between the sensors or use both depending on various factors including type of workout. Workouts may also be tagged with various parameters including mood, weather, terrain, athletic equipment used and the like. In one or more examples, the parameters may be automatically determined based on location. User workouts and accomplishments may also be celebrated through messages from celebrities, family, friends and other users. In some cases, the messages may be triggered by various conditions. Coaching may also be provided to the user to help improve workouts and overall athletic performance. Running routes may also be automatically tracked, stored and shared.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09526967&OS=09526967&RS=09526967
owner: NIKE, Inc.
number: 09526967
owner_city: Beaverton
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150529
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 14 253 525 entitled MONITORING FITNESS USING A MOBILE DEVICE filed Apr. 15 2014 which is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 13 205 895 entitled MONITORING FITNESS USING A MOBILE DEVICE filed Aug. 9 2011 which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 371 842 entitled MONITORING FITNESS USING A MOBILE DEVICE filed Aug. 9 2010. The contents of which are incorporated herein in its entirety for any and all non limiting purposes.

While most people appreciate the importance of physical fitness many have difficulty finding the motivation required to maintain a regular exercise program. Some people find it particularly difficult to maintain an exercise regimen that involves continuously repetitive motions such as running walking and bicycling. Additionally oftentimes individuals might not be as motivated to exercise because of the extra effort that may be required in recording and tracking workout results. For example an individual may be required to manually enter workout information such as a number of miles run a route run an average heart rate and the like into a database in order to track his or her progress. In another example individuals may need to use special fitness dedicated devices to automatically track workout results. In some instances different types of fitness equipment may be required depending on if the individual is working out indoors or outdoors on a treadmill or running an outdoor route and the like.

Motivation may also result from achieving progress in an individual s fitness level. However progress often involves increasing or otherwise altering a workout regimen. For example individuals may start running faster or for longer periods of time to increase endurance. In some cases individuals might repeat the same workout thus failing to challenge themselves to improve on previous performances. Without being prompted to perform a more strenuous workout an individual might not see results as quickly or at all and thus become unmotivated.

According to one or more aspects a user may record and track athletic activity using a mobile device having multiple types of location determination systems such as a global positioning system GPS and an accelerometer or other types of devices e.g. pedometer not dependent on remote systems. By using both a GPS device and an accelerometer the mobile device may record workout data for both indoor e.g. stationary workouts and outdoor workouts. The mobile device may switch from using one device to the other device depending on the conditions. For example if a GPS signal is lost the accelerometer may be activated and used as back up to provide workout related data. Once a GPS signal is reacquired the system may begin recording the GPS data once again. The system may automatically switch between the two sensors or use both depending on signal availability and or strength detected movement location indoors vs. outdoors user preferences e.g. preferred types of workout data preferred accuracy and the like.

According to another aspect the systems and methods described herein may provide challenges or suggestions for improvement workouts. For example the system may offer options to a user to improve on a previous run or other athletic activity. The user may select from a list of suggested improvement runs or create a customized run based on a previously recorded run or workout. In a particular example the system may suggest improvement runs that increase a pace a distance calories burned or an amount of time run by 5 . In another example the system may analyze an athlete s trend over a predefined time period such as a week a month 6 months or the like and identify an average amount of progress per week or day. The system may then suggest an improvement workout that incorporates the determined average amount of progress. Other activity improvement algorithms may be used to generate a suggested workout to help an athlete improve one or more athletic activity metrics.

According to yet another aspect a user may synchronize data to and view data from an athletic activity monitoring service provider. The user may download data to a mobile fitness monitoring device to track historical runs and his or her progress over a specified period of time. Additionally or alternatively some data may be stored locally in the user s mobile device and supplemented with data from a remote network site e.g. the athletic activity monitoring service provider . Further data recorded by the mobile device e.g. GPS data or accelerometer data may be synchronized with the remote network site to alleviate storage requirements of the mobile device. Additionally synchronization with the remote network site may allow the user to view athletic activity information from other locations and devices. Further the workout information may be shared through one or more social outlets.

According to another aspect runs completed using a location determination device may be stored with route information. Route information includes the path taken by the user during the workout. The route may be displayed against a map to allow the user to view various information and statistics about the run. For example distance markers pace markers and elevation markers may be displayed. Additionally indicators may be provided for identifying fastest and slowest pace highest and lowest heart rate highest and lowest elevation and the like. Color and other visual elements of the route may be used to indicate various types of athletic information including pace heart rate type of music being played temperature ambient or body and the like. The route display may be customizable according to user preferences. Users may further create routes from scratch or based on a previously recorded GPS route run.

According to still another aspect coaching may be provided to the user to aid in improvement and the achievement of goals. In one example coaching may include instructional commentary to identify particular actions that the user may take to achieve or exceed a particular goal. Coaching may include voice or video overlays of celebrities such as athletes movie stars singers musicians and the like. Coaching may also take into account automatically determined location specific parameters such as weather and terrain and may further evaluate performances by other users performed at the same or a similar location.

According to yet another aspect a mobile athletic activity monitoring device may further offer comments suggestions and words of encouragement to the user pre mid and post run or athletic workout. For example if a user reaches a predefined distance during a run the device may generate and render text audio and or video messages to the user. In one or more arrangements celebrity messages may be included as a congratulatory or motivational message. In another example congratulatory or motivational messages may be provided based on a set trigger such as reaching a certain distance or achieving a specified pace. In one arrangement a user may be provided with certain sound visual or haptic feedback upon receiving a threshold number of messages from friends e.g. through a social networking site such as TWITTER or FACEBOOK .

Still further a user may tag or otherwise associate various parameters and notes with a workout session. The tags notes and or parameters in some instances may be automatically detected. For example weather terrain incline elevation body temperature and the like may be automatically registered as a parameter or tagged parameter of a workout session based on information that is determined through devices such as a GPS receiver heart rate monitor gyroscopes accelerometers thermometers and the like. In some examples athletic equipment used during a workout may be tagged. This information may then be used to monitor wear on the athletic equipment recommend new supplemental and or replacement equipment determine what equipment provides better results and the like.

According to still another aspect methods and systems for automatically identifying and matching a user with other challenge participants may be provided. For example the system may receive a request to initiate a run and to challenge one or more other users to the run from a first user. The system may allow the user to select and invite particular users to be challenged or alternatively or additionally automatically identify such other users. In one example attributes of the first user may be determined and compared to the attributes of other users. The system might only identify challenges that are currently online. The identified users may then be invited to participate in the challenge. If a user accepts the challenge the participants may compete in the challenge at the conclusion of which a winner may be declared. Rewards accolades and other recognition may be provided to the winner. Additionally or alternatively the system may automatically suggest a schedule for a further challenge between the two participants to encourage improvement and athletic activity.

These and other features of the present disclosure will become apparent from the following detailed description.

Aspects of the disclosure relate to the measurement collection display and management of athletic and non athletic information. As will be appreciated by those of ordinary skill in the art athletic information must first be obtained from an individual person. With various implementations of the invention one or more different athletic information monitoring devices may be used to measure and record athletic data corresponding to athletic activity performed by a person and convert that information into a form of currency. Typically an athletic information monitoring device will incorporate a sensor or multiple sensors for measuring parameters relating to the person being monitored and a computing device for processing the parameters measured by the sensor s .

Once an athletic information monitoring device has recorded athletic information for a person s athletic activity the person may then transfer the recorded athletic information to one or more separate devices in order to view the recorded athletic data. A user may for example download the recorded athletic information from an athletic information monitoring device to a separate collection device. The collection device may in turn transfer the athletic information collected from the athletic information monitoring device to a separate display configuration device where the athletic information can be organized and configured for subsequent viewing with e.g. still another device. As will be discussed in more detail below various implementations of the invention will allow a person to record collect and display athletic information using a group of computing devices communicating over a network such as the Internet.

For example some aspects described herein allow a person to measure and record athletic information using a special purpose computing device. The user can then transfer the recorded athletic information to a local computing device such as a personal desktop or laptop computer. More particularly a user can download recorded athletic information from the athletic information monitoring device to a collection software tool on a local computer that acts as a client in a computer network. The collection software tool will then transfer the downloaded athletic information through the network to a remote server computer. A display configuration software tool on the remote server computer will then save the transferred athletic information. Later a person can use the client computer or another local computer to retrieve the stored athletic information from the server computer. In response to a display request from a local computer the display configuration software tool will configure the requested athletic information for display on the local computer and then transmit the configured athletic information to the local computer for display.

Various examples of the invention may be implemented using electronic circuitry configured to perform one or more functions. For example with some embodiments of the invention the athletic information monitoring device the collection device the display device or any combination thereof may be implemented using one or more application specific integrated circuits ASICs . More typically however components of various examples of the invention will be implemented using a programmable computing device executing firmware or software instructions or by some combination of purpose specific electronic circuitry and firmware or software instructions executing on a programmable computing device.

Accordingly shows one illustrative example of a computer that can be used to implement various embodiments of the invention. As seen in this figure the computer has a computing unit . The computing unit typically includes a processing unit and a system memory . The processing unit may be any type of processing device for executing software instructions but will conventionally be a microprocessor device. The system memory may include both a read only memory ROM and a random access memory RAM . As will be appreciated by those of ordinary skill in the art both the read only memory ROM and the random access memory RAM may store software instructions for execution by the processing unit .

The processing unit and the system memory are connected either directly or indirectly through a bus or alternate communication structure to one or more peripheral devices. For example the processing unit or the system memory may be directly or indirectly connected to additional memory storage such as the hard disk drive the removable magnetic disk drive the optical disk drive and the flash memory card . The processing unit and the system memory also may be directly or indirectly connected to one or more input devices and one or more output devices . The input devices may include for example a keyboard touch screen a remote control pad a pointing device such as a mouse touchpad stylus trackball or joystick a scanner a camera or a microphone. The output devices may include for example a monitor display haptic feedback device television printer stereo or speakers.

Still further the computing unit will be directly or indirectly connected to one or more network interfaces for communicating with a network. This type of network interface also sometimes referred to as a network adapter or network interface card NIC translates data and control signals from the computing unit into network messages according to one or more communication protocols such as the Transmission Control Protocol TCP the Internet Protocol IP and the User Datagram Protocol UDP . These protocols are well known in the art and thus will not be discussed here in more detail. An interface may employ any suitable connection agent for connecting to a network including for example a wireless transceiver a power line adapter a modem or an Ethernet connection.

It should be appreciated that in addition to the input output and storage peripheral devices specifically listed above the computing device may be connected to a variety of other peripheral devices including some that may perform input output and storage functions or some combination thereof. For example the computer may be connected to a digital music player such as an IPOD brand digital music player available from Apple Inc. of Cupertino Calif. As known in the art this type of digital music player can serve as both an output device for a computer e.g. outputting music from a sound file or pictures from an image file and a storage device. In addition this type of digital music play also can serve as an input device for inputting recorded athletic information as will be discussed in more detail below.

In addition to a digital music player the computer may be connected to or otherwise include one or more other peripheral devices such as a telephone. The telephone may be for example a wireless smart phone. In one example the communication device may be an IPHONE brand portable communication device available from Apple Inc. of Cupertino Calif. As known in the art this type of telephone communicates through a wireless network using radio frequency transmissions. In addition to simple communication functionality a smart phone may also provide a user with one or more data management functions such as sending receiving and viewing electronic messages e.g. electronic mail messages SMS text messages etc. recording or playing back sound files recording or playing back image files e.g. still picture or moving video image files viewing and editing files with text e.g. Microsoft Word or Excel files or Adobe Acrobat files etc. Because of the data management capability of this type of telephone a user may connect the telephone with the computer so that their data maintained may be synchronized.

Of course still other peripheral devices may be included with our otherwise connected to a computer of the type illustrated in as is well known in the art. In some cases a peripheral device may be permanently or semi permanently connected to the computing unit . For example with many computers the computing unit the hard disk drive the removable optical disk drive and a display are semi permanently encased in a single housing. Still other peripheral devices may be removably connected to the computer however. The computer may include for example one or more communication ports through which a peripheral device can be connected to the computing unit either directly or indirectly through the bus . These communication ports may thus include a parallel bus port or a serial bus port such as a serial bus port using the Universal Serial Bus USB standard or the IEEE 1394 High Speed Serial Bus standard e.g. a Firewire port . Alternately or additionally the computer may include a wireless data port such as a Bluetooth interface a Wi Fi interface an infrared data port or the like.

It should be appreciated that a computing device employed according various examples of the invention may include more components than the computer illustrated in fewer components than the computer or a different combination of components than the computer . Some implementations of the invention for example may employ one or more computing devices that are intended to have a very specific functionality such as a digital music player or server computer. These computing devices may thus omit unnecessary peripherals such as the network interface removable optical disk drive printers scanners external hard drives etc. Some implementations of the invention may alternately or additionally employ computing devices that are intended to be capable of a wide variety of functions such as a desktop or laptop personal computer. These computing devices may have any combination of peripheral devices or additional components as desired.

The athletic parameter measurement device may be worn or carried by the user while he or she is performing an athletic activity and measures one or more athletic parameters relating to the athletic performance being performed by the user. The athletic parameter measurement device transmits signals to the electronic interface device that correspond to the measured athletic parameter. The electronic interface device receives the signals from the athletic parameter measurement device and provides the received information to the digital music player . In one or more arrangements electronic interface device might not be included as part of the athletic monitoring system . Instead the digital music player may include a communication device configured to receive sensor data from one or more athletic measurement sensors and to transmit instructions thereto.

As shown in more detail in the athletic parameter measurement device includes one or more sensors for measuring an athletic parameter associated with a person wearing or otherwise using the athletic parameter measurement device . With the illustrated implementations for example the sensors A and B may be accelerometers such as piezoelectric accelerometers for measuring the acceleration of the athletic parameter measurement device in two orthogonal directions. The athletic parameter measurement device is carried or otherwise worn by a user to measure the desired athletic parameter while the user exercises. For example as shown in the athletic parameter measurement device may be located the sole of a user s shoe while the user walks or runs. With this arrangement the sensors will produce electrical signals corresponding to the movement of the user s foot. As known in the art these signals can then be used to generate athletic data representative of the athletic activity performed by the user. In other examples athletic parameter measurement device may be worn on a chest strap or on a user s wrist or may be incorporated within digital music player .

The athletic parameter measurement device also includes a processor for processing the electrical signals output by the sensors . With some implementations of the invention the processor may be a programmable microprocessor. For still other implementations of the invention however the processor may be a purpose specific circuit device such as an ASIC. The processor may perform any desired operation on the signals output from the sensors such as curve smoothing noise filtering outlier removal amplification summation integration or the like. The processor provides the processed signals to a transmitter . The athletic parameter measurement device also includes a power supply for providing power to the sensors the processor and the transmitter as needed. The power supply may be for example a battery.

The athletic parameter measurement device transmits the processed signals to the electronic interface device as seen in or directly to the digital music player . Returning now to the electronic interface device includes a receiver which receives the processed signals transmitted by the transmitter in the athletic parameter measurement device . The receiver relays the processed signals to a second processor which processes the signals further. Like the processor the processor may perform any desired operation on the processed signals such as curve smoothing noise filtering outlier removal amplification summation integration or the like.

The processor provides the processed signals to the digital music player . Referring back now to in one arrangement the electronic interface device includes a connector system that physically plugs into and connects with a conventional input port provided on digital music player . The input port into which the connector system of the electronic interface device connects may be any desired type of input port for transferring data such as a parallel data port a serial data port an earphone or microphone jack etc. The connector system may include any suitable connecting devices such as wires pins electrical connectors and the like so as to make an electrical connection or other suitable connection with corresponding elements provided in the input port of the digital music player e.g. to allow electronic and or data communications between the interface device and the electronic interface device . If necessary or desired additional securing elements may be provided to securely connect the interface device to the digital music player such as straps hooks buckles clips clamps clasps retaining elements mechanical connectors and the like.

Returning now to the processor provides the processed signals to the computing unit . The computing unit may initially store the processed signals in the memory . Further with some implementations of the invention the computing unit may operate on the processed signals provided by the athletic information monitoring device to generate a set of athletic data corresponding to the athletic activity performed by the user. For example if the athletic information monitoring device includes accelerometers for measuring the movement of the user s foot the computing unit may analyze the processed signals from the athletic information monitoring device to generate a set of athletic data describing the user s speed at specific instances during the user s athletic activity and the total distance traveled by the user at each of those specific instances. Various techniques for determining a user s speed from accelerometer signals are described in for example U.S. Pat. No. 6 898 550 to Blackadar et al. entitled Monitoring Activity Of A User In Locomotion On Foot and issued on May 24 2005 U.S. Pat. No. 6 882 955 to Ohlenbusch et al. entitled Monitoring Activity Of A User In Locomotion On Foot and issued on Apr. 19 2005 U.S. Pat. No. 6 876 947 to Darley et al. entitled Monitoring Activity Of A User In Locomotion On Foot and issued on Apr. 5 2005 U.S. Pat. No. 6 493 652 to Ohlenbusch et al. entitled Monitoring Activity Of A User In Locomotion On Foot and issued on Dec. 10 2002 U.S. Pat. No. 6 298 314 to Blackadar et al. entitled Detecting The Starting And Stopping Of Movement Of A Person On Foot and issued on Oct. 2 2001 U.S. Pat. No. 6 052 654 to Gaudet et al. entitled Measuring Foot Contact Time And Foot Loft Time Of A Person In Locomotion and issued on Apr. 18 2000 U.S. Pat. No. 6 018 705 to Gaudet et al. entitled Measuring Foot Contact Time And Foot Loft Time Of A Person In Locomotion and issued on Jan. 25 2000 each of which are incorporated entirely herein by reference.

The athletic data set may also include a time value associated with each speed value and or each distance value. If the athletic information monitoring device can be employed to collect athletic information from different users then the athletic data computing unit may additionally prompt the user to identify himself or herself in some way. This identification information may then be included with the athletic data set generated from the information provided by the athletic information monitoring device . Once the computing unit has generated a set of athletic data from the information provided by the athletic information monitoring device the computing unit may store the athletic data set in the memory . As will be discussed in more detail below when the digital music player subsequently is connected to a computing device implementing an athletic information collection tool the computing unit will download the athletic data to a display configuration tool hosted on a remote computing device.

While wireless communication between the between the athletic parameter measurement device and the interface device is described for the embodiments illustrated in any desired manner of communicating between the athletic parameter measurement device and the interface device may be used without departing from the invention including wired connections. Also any desired way of placing data derived from the physical or physiological data from the athletic parameter measurement device in the proper form or format for display on or output from electronic device may be provided without departing from the invention. For example if desired the athletic parameter measurement device may be specially designed and or programmed for use with one or more specific electronic devices e.g. pre programmed and or wired to operate with a specific device or devices and to provide output data in a form and format suitable for those devices. In this situation the interface devices may be marketed and sold to specifically target certain electronic devices such as specific models of digital music players and even other electronic devices such as telephones watches personal digital assistants etc. As another alternative if desired the interface devices may be programmed at a later time to operate with a wide variety of different electronic devices e.g. by downloading display or device driver and or format data for specific electronic devices from the Internet from disk or from another source etc.

If desired in accordance with at least some examples of this invention the electronic interface device may further include a display and or a user input system such as one or more rotary input devices switches buttons as shown in the illustrated example in mouse or trackball elements touch screens or the like or some combination thereof. The display may be employed to show for example information relating to music being played by the digital music player information relating to the athletic information signals being received by the digital music player athletic data being generated by the digital music player from the received athletic information signals etc. The user input system may be employed for example to control one or more aspects of the processing of the input data received via interface device to control input data receipt e.g. timing types of information received on demand data requests etc. to control data output to or by the electronic device to control the athletic parameter measurement device etc. Alternatively or additionally if desired the input system on the digital music player e.g. buttons a touch screen a digitizer stylus based input a rotary input device a trackball or roller ball a mouse etc. may be used to provide user input data to the interface device and or to the athletic parameter measurement device . As still another example if desired a voice input system may be provided with the interface device and or the digital music player e.g. to enable user input via voice commands. Any other desired type of user input system for control of any system elements and or for any purpose may be provided without departing from the invention.

The digital music player may include additional input and or output elements e.g. such as ports and shown in e.g. for headphones or other audio output power supplies wireless communications infrared input microphone input or other devices. If desired and if these ports and or would be covered when the interface device is attached to the electronic device the interface device may be equipped with similar external ports to ports and or and internal circuitry may be provided in the interface device to enable the user to plug the same additional devices into the interface device as they might plug into the digital music player and still take advantage of the same functions e.g. to thereby allow the necessary data signals power and or information to pass through the interface device to the user to another output and or to the digital music player .

It should be appreciated that while some specific embodiments of the invention described above relate to a digital music player alternate examples of the invention may be implemented using any portable electronic device. For example with some implementations of the invention the athletic parameter measurement device may be used in conjunction with a mobile telephone a watch a personal digital assistant anther type of music player such as a compact disc or satellite radio music player a portable computer or any other desired electronic device. Still further some implementations of the invention may alternately or additionally omit the use of the interface device . For example the athletic parameter measurement device may be configured to communicate using the Bluetooth wireless communication protocol so that it can be employed with Bluetooth capable mobile telephones personal digital assistants watches or personal computers. Of course still other wireless or wired communication techniques could be employed while omitting the interface device .

It also should be appreciated that while a specific example of an athletic parameter measurement device has been described above for ease of understanding any type of desired athletic parameter measurement device can be employed with various embodiments of the invention. For example with some implementations of the invention the athletic parameter measurement device may be a heart rate monitor a blood oxygen monitor a satellite positioning device e.g. a Global Positioning Satellite GPS navigation device or other location determination system a device for measuring the electrical activity of the user e.g. an EKG monitor or any other device that measures one or more physical parameters of the user. Still further the athletic parameter measurement device may measure one or more operational parameters of some device being manipulated by the user such as the speed and or distance of a bicycle the speed and or work performed by a treadmill rowing machine elliptical machine stationary bicycle the speed and or distance traveled by skis water or snow skates roller or ice or snowshoes or the like worn by the user etc.

Also while the athletic parameter measurement device has been described as being separate for the digital music player or other portable electronic device that receives the signals from the athletic parameter measurement device with some implementations of the invention the athletic parameter measurement device may be incorporated into the digital music player or other portable electronic device. For example some implementations of the invention may employ a music player mobile telephone watch or personal digital assistant that incorporates accelerometers a satellite positioning device or any other desired device for measuring athletic activity. Still further it should be appreciated that various implementations of the invention may employ a plurality of athletic parameter measurement devices incorporated into the digital music player or other portable electronic device separate from the digital music player or other portable electronic device or some combination thereof.

As shown the athletic information collection and display device includes an interface for receiving data from the athletic information monitoring device . The interface may be implemented using e.g. electrical components software components such as application program interfaces APIs or some combination thereof. The athletic information collection and display device also has an athletic data collection module . With various examples of the invention the athletic data collection module may detect when the digital music player or other portable electronic device storing one or more athletic data sets is connected to the athletic information collection and display device through the interface establish a communication session with the digital music player or other portable electronic device to retrieve the athletic data set or sets. In some implementations of the invention the athletic data collection module may delete athletic data sets from the digital music player or other portable electronic device after the athletic data sets have been retrieved.

With some examples of the invention the athletic data collection module may perform some further operations on the athletic data sets retrieved from the digital music player or other portable electronic device. For example if the athletic information monitoring device can be employed to collect athletic information from different users then the athletic data collection module may additionally prompt the user to identify himself or herself if this information was not previously obtained by the athletic information collection and display device . This identification information may then be included with the retrieved athletic data sets.

As previously noted the athletic information collection and display device typically will generate sets of athletic data from information measured by one or more athletic parameter measurement devices . With some embodiments of the invention however the athletic information collection and display device may instead store the raw information provided by the athletic parameter measurement devices . With these embodiments the athletic data collection module may retrieve the raw information from the digital music player or other portable electronic device and then generate athletic data sets from the raw information itself. Of course still other examples of the invention may divide functions relating to the generation of athletic data from the raw information measured by athletic parameter measurement devices between the athletic data collection module and the digital music player or other portable electronic device as desired.

The athletic data collection module may be implemented by for example software instructions executed by a computing unit of a computing device . With some examples of the invention the athletic data collection module may be implemented by a conventional software tool such as a browser. Alternately athletic data collection module may be implemented by a purpose specific software tool or by a conventional software tool enhanced to perform athletic data collection functions. For example the athletic data collection module may be implemented by a software tool that incorporates a conventional browser to perform a variety of functions. These functions may include e.g. selecting purchasing and downloading music and video content in addition to collecting athletic data from a digital music player or other portable electronic device.

Once the athletic data collection module has collected the processed signals provided by the athletic information monitoring device the athletic data collection module transmits the athletic data set to an athletic data display configuration device through an interface module . The athletic information collection and display device may communicate with the athletic data display configuration device through a conventional network such as the Internet. With these configurations the interface module may be implemented using any conventional type of network interface such as a network interface card. Of course any type of desired hardware or software combination alternately may be used to allow the athletic data collection module to send the collected athletic data to the athletic data display configuration device . With some implementations of the invention the athletic data collection module may automatically forward collected athletic data to the athletic data display configuration device . For example the athletic data collection module may attempt to forward collected athletic data to the athletic data display configuration device immediately after collection at a prescheduled interval upon the detection of a network connection to the athletic data display configuration device or some combination thereof. Alternately or additionally the athletic data collection module may prompt a user to specify when collected athletic data is sent to the athletic data display configuration device .

The athletic data display configuration device also includes an athletic data display configuration module and an athletic data storage . When the interface of the athletic data display configuration device receives athletic data from the athletic information collection and display device it provides the received athletic data to the athletic data display configuration module . The athletic data display configuration module may then store the athletic data in the athletic data storage for future use. As will be discussed in more detail below the athletic data display configuration module also will retrieve athletic data from the athletic data storage and configure the retrieved athletic data for display through one or more user interfaces in a manner that is meaningful to a user.

Returning now to when a user wishes to view information relating to his or her athletic activities or the athletic activities of another as will be discussed in more detail below the user submits this request to the athletic information collection and display device . More particularly the user can employ conventional input and output devices such as a keyboard mouse display and the like. The display request is then provided to an athletic data display module through a conventional interface input output interface . As well known in the art the interface input output interface may be implemented using any desired combination of hardware and software components such as conventional application programming interfaces APIs used to detect and process input from input devices and to send data to and otherwise control output devices.

With some examples of the invention the athletic data display module may be implemented using any conventional tool for receiving input to request and control the display of data and then subsequently displaying the data in the manner requested. For example the athletic data display module may be implemented using a conventional browser program such as Microsoft Internet Explorer Mozilla Firefox or Opera executing on a computing unit . With still other embodiments of the invention the athletic data display module may be implemented using a conventional browser program that has been enhanced by one or more display tools such as an ActiveX plug in a Java script or a version of the Macromedia Flash Player or Adobe Flash Player available from Adobe Systems Incorporated of San Jose Calif. In still other embodiments of the invention the athletic data display module may be implemented by for example a purpose specific software tool for displaying athletic data.

As will be discussed in more detail below when a user activates the athletic data display module he or she is provided with a user interface prompting the use to select what collected athletic data he or she wishes to view the format in which the user wishes to view the collected athletic data etc. This user interface may be generated by the athletic data display module the athletic data display configuration module or some combination thereof. When a user employs the provided user interface to submit a request to view athletic data the athletic data display module relays the request to the athletic data display configuration module . In response the athletic data display configuration module configures the requested athletic data for display by the athletic data display module . For example as will be discussed in more detail below a user may request to view the total distance run by a user for each day in a one week period. In response the athletic data display configuration module will retrieve the relevant distance data from the athletic data storage . It will then configure the retrieved distance data to be displayed through a desired image e.g. a bar graph and provide the configured athletic data to the athletic data display module for display to the user.

It should be noted that with some embodiments of the invention the data display configuration functions may be divided between the athletic data display module and the athletic data display configuration module . For example if the athletic data display module is implemented by a simple browser then the athletic data display module may serve as a thin client for the athletic data display configuration module . That is all of the data display configuration functions may be performed by the athletic data display configuration module . The athletic data display module will then only display the information provided to it. Alternately if the athletic data display module is implemented by a purpose specific software tool then most or all of the data display configuration functions may be performed by the athletic data display module . With these examples the athletic data display configuration module may be used only to store and retrieve athletic data from the athletic data storage .

As noted above various software e.g. athletic display module of and hardware e.g. digital music player of and or athletic information collection and display device of may be used to track athletic activity and provide such information to an individual. In one arrangement the software and or hardware may be included in a mobile device such as a mobile communication device or mobile computing device. Use of a mobile device for detecting collecting processing and display of athletic information may provide an athlete with athletic activity information in a variety of environments. For example to view processed or collected athletic activity information the athlete may use his or her mobile device instead of having to use a stationary computing system. Such mobile devices may include smartphones mobile telephones personal data assistants PDAs laptop computing devices digital music players tablet computers wrist worn devices and the like. Computer executable instructions in the form of a software application or applet may be stored in the mobile device allowing the mobile device to perform various athletic activity tracking and monitoring functions. For example the mobile device may offer feedback challenges suggestions encouragement and other data in response to an individual s athletic performance. In one example the computing device may challenge the individual to perform a more strenuous or more difficult workout than in a previous workout session in order to help the individual improve and achieve greater progress. By achieving more substantial progress the individual may be more motivated to continue exercising on a regular basis. In another example the mobile device may be configured to encourage and motivate the individual based on his or her performance and or comments and encouragement received from other individuals.

The inclusion of GPS device and accelerometer in a single mobile device allows device to record athletic activity data in multiple workout settings. For example if an individual is running on a treadmill GPS device would likely be unable to detect or provide significant exercise data since the individual generally remains stationary and a GPS satellite signal may be unavailable. As such the mobile device may instead use the accelerometer to determine a number of steps the individual has taken a speed acceleration e.g. pace of the individual and the like. If on the other hand the individual is running outdoors such that the individual moves from one location to another the GPS device or recording of data therefrom e.g. GPS device is always active but recording is turned on and off may be activated and used instead. In one or more arrangements mobile device may automatically detect whether GPS device should be used or accelerometer should be used or whether data should be recorded from GPS device or accelerometer . For example if device determines that the individual s location is not changing accelerometer or recording data therefrom may be activated and used again the device might always be active but recording data from the device is turned on and off . In some arrangements both GPS device and accelerometer may be used in conjunction with one another to provide additional data granularity and or to enhance accuracy of the data. Other sensors may also be included in mobile device including a heart rate monitoring device to provide additional types of activity data. Additionally in some instances location may be determined using cellular triangulation if GPS is unavailable.

In one or more arrangements mobile device may automatically switch between a GPS without accelerometer setting an accelerometer without GPS setting or a combination GPS and accelerometer setting and in some cases a cellular triangulation with accelerometer mode . The switching and determination of which mode to use may depend on a variety of factors including detected movement GPS signal strength and availability user preferences location and the like. For example if a GPS signal is low e.g. below 50 strength below 30 strength below 10 strength etc. mobile device may operate e.g. record data from both GPS device and accelerometer so that the accelerometer data may supplement any potentially missing or inaccurate GPS information. Alternatively or additionally GPS data and accelerometer data may be averaged or otherwise combined to determine an amount of athletic activity performed by the user. In another example mobile device may use and record data from the GPS device without using or recording data from accelerometer when the signal strength is above a predetermined level e.g. 50 70 90 etc. . In yet another example if mobile device detects movement via accelerometer but does not detect change in position using GPS device mobile device may use accelerometer without GPS device for that workout. Further if the device begins detecting a GPS signal device may switch to GPS mode or a combination GPS accelerometer mode. In other instances an accelerometer may be used without GPS device if no GPS signal is available and or a location of the user is indoors. The user location may automatically be determined using GPS e.g. location signal strength or based on manual input.

According to one or more arrangements mobile device may determine that a user is performing stationary athletic activity by detecting steps taken at a predefined pace receiving user indication of a start of athletic activity detecting elevation of heart rate e.g. through a heart rate sensor and the like. In one example the mobile device may detect steps being taken above a threshold pace using data from the accelerometer . Upon detecting the steps being taken the mobile device may determine whether GPS data from GPS device is available and or indicates a change in location. If not e.g. no GPS signal or no change in location the mobile device may register that the user is performing a stationary athletic activity. The mobile device may further confirm this determination with the user. Additionally or alternatively mobile device may also determine whether an elevated heart rate is detected.

In other examples other sensors may be used in concert with a location determination system to provide alternative or additional activity information. For example a heart rate sensor may be used to determine whether the user is performing athletic activity if a location determination system does not detect a change in a user s physical location or a change above a predefined threshold distance or altitude . Additionally or alternatively GPS device and or accelerometer may be physically separate devices from mobile device . For example accelerometer may correspond to a wrist worn or shoe integrated sensor. GPS device for instance may be incorporated in a wrist worn device. Mobile device may communicate and receive data from each of these separate devices using various wireless or wired communication systems including BLUETOOTH Wi Fi infrared and the like.

Mobile device or other computing systems may offer a variety of functions and options for defining a workout. For example the system may offer the user options of starting a run from scratch or improving on a previously completed run. The run may then customized and encouragement and or status information may be provided to the individual during and after the run.

Using an athletic activity monitoring device such as device of a user may register athletic activity sessions and record data therefrom. Registration of an athletic activity session may include defining the type of activity a duration of the activity audio video or haptic feedback to be provided and the like. This information may be entered through one or more applications execution on device . Accordingly the user may set up an athletic activity session in a mobile environment and shortly before engaging in the activity session.

If the user chooses a repeat last run option the user s most recent run may be retrieved from a database in step . This database may be local to the system or may be resident in a remote server. The system may then make a determination in step as to where the run took place e.g. outdoors or indoors since the location of the run may determine what sensors are used in tracking the activity. For example if the previous run occurred outdoors the system may initiate a run to be tracked and monitored using a GPS device in block . On the other hand if the run occurred indoors the system may initiate a run to be tracked and monitored using an accelerometer system as shown in block . Initiation of the run may include activation of the relevant firmware hardware and or software defining workout parameters e.g. setting a calorie burning goal for indoors versus a distance goal for outdoors generating a workout interface e.g. a gym image for indoor runs and outdoor scenery for outdoor runs and the like. As noted herein in some arrangements both accelerometer and GPS systems may be used to track various workout statistics if the workout allows for the use of GPS while only non GPS devices may be used for indoor workouts. Using a device may include recording data from that device and instructing the device to communicate data at specified times or continuously . Repeating a last run may also include using the same music playlist or other audio content as the previous run. Alternatively or additionally the user may be provided with an option and opportunity to customize the audio content for the current run.

If the user chooses to improve his or her workout performance the user may be presented a second set of options in block . The options may offer various methods of improvement including running a specific route running faster running longer running farther setting a personal best time wise in the 1K or 5K or setting a personal best in a distance run. If the user selects an option to complete a particular route the user may be presented with a route list in block . The route list may include routes previously run and or saved by the user routes downloaded from a remote network site routes run by friends or other acquaintances and the like. In some arrangements the routes may be recommended to the user based on the user s past athletic performances including types of route previously run. For example the user previously ran 3 miles on substantially flat terrain the mobile device or another system may identify a similarly distanced route having a similar terrain. In some arrangements the recommended routes may include routes seeking to challenge the user. For example the recommendations may include 3.5 and 4 mile routes or routes that have a more significant hill profile to help the user improve.

If on the other hand the user selects one of the other options the user may be asked to input a corresponding improvement amount in block . The system may subsequently set the goal for the workout based on the user input in block . The amount by which the user wants to improve his or her performance may be defined in terms of percentages or absolute values. For example if the user wishes to run farther the user may define the number of additional miles he wishes to run or a percentage increase in the number of miles. The total number of miles may then calculated based on a most recent run or based on a personal best depending on the type of improvement selected. In one example if a user selects the option to run farther the improvement goal may be defined based on the user s last run. If however the user selects the option to set a personal best in distance run the improvement goal may be automatically semi automatically and or manually defined based on a previous or current personal best in distance. For example the system may automatically set the goal as a certain percentage e.g. 5 above the user s personal best in distance. Alternatively or additionally the user may be given the option of selecting the workout from which he would like to improve from all previously recorded workouts.

If the user chooses a goal setting option from a workout menu the user may be asked to select a type of goal he would like to set in block . The various types of goals may include distance time and calories. Other types of goals may also be set such a pace heart rate percentage incline run and the like. In one or more arrangements the user may select more than on goal type so set multiple goal parameters for the run. Upon selecting the type of goal the system may display a list of goals to the user in block . The list of goals may include one or more predefined and or automatically defined goals such as run a marathon run for a specified time e.g. 30 minutes and or burn a certain number of calories e.g. 300 calories . The list of goals may also provide an option for the user to customize the goal. For example if no predefined selection is available for running 10 miles the user may set a customized goal for running 10 miles. In another example if the user wishes to burn 500 calories but the predefined calorie goals are in 200 calorie increments the user may set a customized 500 calorie goal instead of being forced to choose either 400 or 600 calories.

Once a user has selected a workout type and or defined a goal for the workout type the system may prompt the user to select the type of music he or she wishes to listen to during the workout in block . The various selections may include a predefined playlist user or system created shuffle e.g. random selection of songs or random order of songs or no music. In block the system may determine whether the user wishes to publish workout information on a social networking site such as FACEBOOK. Alternatively or additionally the system may determine whether the user wishes to synchronize workout data to an athletic activity monitoring service. If so the user may be prompted to enter various identification or login information so that the system may automatically access the user s account and synchronize or post information thereto. The user may also be prompted to enter publishing or synchronization options including whether the information is to be made available to the general public a select group of friends or users whether all data is to be synchronized or just a particular type of data e.g. calories distance run route etc. and the like.

If the user does not wish to publish or synchronize the data or once the user has completed filling in the synchronization publication information in block the system may allow the user to define an environment in which the workout will take place in block . For example the user may select either an outdoor or indoor workout. In some arrangements the user may also select a particular location or type of equipment. For example the user may indicate that he or she wishes to run on a treadmill or to use an elliptical machine. In accordance with the defined environment the system may identify select and initiate appropriate devices and sensors for detecting the results of the workout as described with respect to blocks and . In some arrangements the selection of a location or environment may also allow the device to more accurately calibrate its sensors and devices for that particular environment. Different sets of calibration data may be stored for different workouts type of workouts and workout environments.

Other athletic activity session setting options may also be provided in the process. For example the settings may allow an athlete to specify whether to post the performance information to a social networking site or a news feed whether to synchronize or sending data to an athletic activity performance monitoring service and the like.

The process flow may include another option for allowing a user to choose whether he or she would like to receive prompts during the workout to further improve the individual s workout in block . For example halfway through the workout the system may automatically generate and display a prompt asking whether the individual would like to increase the run time by an additional 5 minutes or if the individual would like to burn 50 more calories. The improvement or additional amount may correspond to a percentage of the unmodified goal workout an amount that would increase the workout to beat a personal best in an athletic activity metric and the like. If the user does not wish to receive such prompts or notifications the prompts may be deactivated for the workout. Alternatively if the user selects the option to receive prompts the user may also be allowed to define when the prompts are given and under what conditions. For example the user may specify that prompts are only to be given during the last 30 minutes of a 1 hour run and only when the user s heart rate is below a certain amount. In another example a user may ask that prompts be provided when the individual is on pace to exceed a distance goal and is running faster than an expected pace. Various other types of parameters and conditions may also be used to define triggers for prompts that seek to further improve the individual s workout performance.

According to one or more arrangements the user may be provided with two types of improvement workout options. The first improvement workout option may be configured to provide improvement workout selections that are generated based on a standard amount of improvement e.g. 5 improvement regardless of the individual over a previous workout. A second improvement workout option may be configured to generate improvement workouts that are based on the user s attributes and or past workout statistics. In one example the amount of improvement incorporated into the improvement workouts for the second improvement workout option may be dynamically determined based on a user s previous trend. Alternatively or additionally the amount of improvement set for the improvement workout in the second improvement workout option may consider the user s weight height gender and or combinations thereof. For example lower amount of improvement e.g. a percentage improvement may be set if the user s trend shows slower or more gradual progress over a specified time frame e.g. a month while a higher amount of improvement may be used to generate an improvement workout for a user if the user s trend shows faster progress over the specified time frame. Recommendations for improvement runs or workouts may also include a specific recommended route recommended times of day or days of week for a workout. In one example the recommendations may be based on weather forecasts specific to a location determined by a location determination system such as GPS.

Various types of user interfaces may be generated to allow a user to more easily set up a workout session. For example workout type selections and definitions audio selections and the like may be graphically illustrated. A sequence of user interfaces may also be defined to more logically and efficiently guide a user through activity session set up.

In one example if no runs have been previously recorded a history interface may be empty. illustrates a history interface e.g. display upon selecting history option of displaying a message that there are no saved runs. The interface may further include a run setup or initiation option to encourage the user to participate in a first run.

Once the user has completed setting up their profile or upon the user choosing to skip the profile definition menu the user may be presented with a run setup interface as illustrated in . Run setup interface may be configured to allow a user to define workout parameters for the new run. For example the user may define the run type the music that is to be played during the workout and the location each of which are described in further detail herein. Once these parameters have been defined the user may begin the run using option .

In interface displayed a workout summary upon completion or ending of the run. For example summary interface includes a total distance run pace time spent running and calories burned . Interface may further display option for displaying a route that the user run if the run was recorded using a GPS device. Other options may include an option to tag the run with the user s emotional or mental state e.g. a mood and an option to visit an athletic activity service provider site. Tagging may involve storing metadata attribute or other type of information in association the one or more parameters or metrics of the activity data. Other or additional tags may also be used including a tag identifying athletic equipment e.g. shoe used during the workout and a tag specifying the weather during the workout. By tagging a workout with the athletic equipment used a system may monitor the wear on the athletic equipment and recommend replacement upon reaching a threshold amount of wear or user e.g. an amount of athletic activity performed using the athletic equipment . In one example wear or amount of user athletic activity performed may be measured by a distance run and the athletic equipment may include a shoe. In other examples an amount of athletic activity performed may be determined based on calories burned and or pace. Tagging athletic equipment might also provide insight e.g. tracking of how and where products are used expected product life times popularity e.g. specific to different sports and the like. Accordingly an athletic activity monitoring service or product provider may use this information to better target develop and or improve products. Visiting the athletic activity service provider site may allow the user to view additional workout information that has been collected by the service provider for the user. This may allow the mobile device to minimize the amount of storage necessary in the mobile device instead storing workout data in the service provider site.

Once the user has completed his or her first run a history interface such as interface of may include an entry corresponding to the first run. The workout entry may be identified in interface by one or more workout statistics such as a distance run. Additionally or alternatively various icons or tags such as icon may be displayed in association with the entry to indicate that certain types of information are available for that entry . For example icon may indicate that a GPS route was recorded for the workout. Selection of entry may allow the user to view the recorded GPS route along with other details of the workout e.g. calories burned duration of the workout user s mood after the workout .

Additionally or alternatively a welcome or home interface such as interface of may further include a feedback option providing the user with the ability to activate or deactivate feedback for his or her workout. Feedback may include audio video or haptic feedback and may originate from other athletes friends celebrities family service providers e.g. an athletic training and monitoring service and the like. In some examples the feedback may comprise audio video or haptic content that is configured to be delivered during a workout upon the user achieving a certain goal or reaching a specified threshold. Feedback may also be provided post workout if the user achieves a certain goal or reaches a threshold. In other examples feedback may be provided based on other triggering events such as a number of comments received from others through social networking outlets such as FACEBOOK and TWITTER. The feedback option may also include various levels of granularity to allow a user to select sources of feedback that are desired and sources of feedback that are not desired during the workout. Additional feedback options may include whether audio being playing during the workout is to be paused during the feedback.

Feedback may be congratulatory encouraging or motivating. For example if the user accomplishes a certain goal the feedback messages may be congratulatory. In some examples if a user is not on track to meet a goal the message may be motivating or encouraging. Feedback may also include suggestions for improvement. Accordingly the type of message that is provided to the user may depend on a result or current status of a user s workout. The monitoring device or system may be configured to automatically select an appropriate type of message depending on the workout result or status.

In one or more examples setting up a workout may include adding or defining desired coaching. Coaching may represent a type of feedback that is intended to be instructional regimented and structured and to be provided prior to during or after the workout and may be event specific and or user specific. For example coaching may provide instructions that are specific to a marathon if a user has selected a marathon as the type of workout event. In another example coaching may provide specific instructions for interval training e.g. run slow to a first pace accelerate to a second pace cool down warm up etc. . The intervals may be defined based on user attributes including height weight gender workout history and the like. Accordingly the instructions may be cued time wise or distance wise based on the user specific intervals or other event specific actions to be taken. Appropriate coaching e.g. instructions may be selected upon a user defining a desired run which may include selecting a desired run type distance pace and the like. Coaching may further include tips or advice provided to the user before a workout during a workout and or post workout and may be provided audibly visually and or haptically. For example instructions may be indicated through use of vibrations visual indicators or audio tones or vocal instructions.

Coaching may also be specific to a particular location or time of day. For example coaching may include recommendations for improving incline running if a given location has a more significant hill profile e.g. San Francisco . In another example coaching may recommend less strenuous workouts early in the day or later in the day depending on metabolic cycles user preferences meal times and the like. In still other examples coaching may provide recommendations on how fast to run e.g. a pace for various types of terrain and or during different types of weather conditions.

Once a user has completed a first run the application may provide different user interfaces reflecting the recorded workout history. For example illustrate a series of interfaces that may be generated and displayed after the user has completed and recorded a first run. illustrates home interface that may be displayed for subsequent runs or workouts. Instead of displaying a tour option e.g. of home interface may display option that allows a user to perform a workout that improves upon a previous workout. The previous workout may be chosen by a user or may be automatically selected. In one example the selected previous workout may be the most recently recorded workout. Additionally in contrast to a general image as displayed in interface of a total distance or other metric for all workouts recorded may be displayed in interface .

As an alternative to selecting an improvement workout through interface of a user may choose to define a run that is not based on a previous workout. Similar to interface of interface may allow the user to define various parameters of the run including a run type audio content to be played during the workout and a location.

In one or more arrangements if a user completes an improvement run a workout summary may include additional information. For example summary interface of includes a medal or other indicator message congratulating the user for completing the improvement run. Audio icon may provide an indication that an audio message is available to the user. For example the audio message may include words of encouragement e.g. from a celebrity a friend or generic voice . Cheers or celebratory messages are described in further detail below. Upon selection of icon the message may be played. Indicator message may also be displayed upon achieving other predefined goals such as performing workouts running 100 miles total e.g. across all previous workouts running 10 miles in 1 session running 26.2 miles in one session running for 30 minutes in a single session running for 100 hours across all sessions and the like. Achievements goals and rewards may be defined by the user by an athletic training and or monitoring service provider or by friends family and acquaintances. For example a friend may offer a user a coupon if the user runs 10 miles in 5 days.

Messages provided to the user pre run in run or post run may be selected based on a user athletic activity level. Accordingly if a user exhibits a high level of athletic activity over a predefined time frame e.g. running at an average pace above a specified threshold or running an average distance above a certain threshold the user may be classified in a first athletic activity level. If a user exhibits a mid range level of activity e.g. between two thresholds of average pace or average distance the user may be classified in a second athletic activity level. If a user exhibits a low range level of activity e.g. below a specified threshold the user may be classified in a third athletic activity level. Additional or alternatively activity levels may be defined as desired or needed. Messages tips information coaching advice and the like may then be selected based on the user s athletic activity level classification. For example if a user is classified in the low range level of activity more instructional messages may be provided to the user. In addition the device may be more specific in recommending products to the user.

If on the other hand the user is classified in the high range level of activity the user might not be provided such as many instructions or as substantial of instructions as the low activity level user. For example a wear warning e.g. without product recommendations may be provided to the high activity level user while a wear warning with specific product recommendations and information explaining the dangers of worn products may be provided to a low activity level user. Mid range activity level users may be provided with a level of information in between those provided to the high activity level and low activity level users. In one example the wear warning with a product recommendation may be provided to the mid range activity level user without the explanatory information.

Messages may also differ in tone wording expectations and the like depending on the user s activity level. For example a high activity level user may receive messages that more strongly challenge the user to reach a specified goal or to exceed a set goal. For lower activity level users the message may be more encouraging than challenging. For example the message may provide words of encouragement even when the user is projected to fall short of the specified goal. In another example the messages may identify a next activity level the user may reach and an amount of athletic activity required to reach that next level. Accordingly such messages may be activity level and user specific. Other types of distinctions in messages may also be applied based on the varying levels of user activity.

As illustrated in a run setup interface may allow the user to define the run type. For example the user may wish to perform a distance run where the objective is reaching a certain distance a time run where the goal is to run for a certain amount of time and or a basic run where no objectives are set. If the user has completed and recorded at least a first run the user may also be able to select an improvement run type in which the objective is to improve at least one metric from a previous workout. This latter option might only be available and displayed if a previous run has been completed and recorded.

The user may confirm that the run type and run type settings are correct and return to a main setup interface using option . Upon returning to the main run setup menu the user may view the currently defined run parameters. For example illustrates interface that displays a distance of 12.3 miles with the run type parameter. The indication of mileage as opposed to time may signify that the run is a distance run rather than a time run.

If a history option is selected e.g. from portion of the user may be presented with a listing of recorded runs. illustrates a history interface displaying a list of recorded previous runs. The user may then select from one of the previously recorded run to improve. For example the user may elect to improve upon a previous 14.7 mi run by 5 . Upon selecting the previously recorded 14.7 mile run the user may be presented with interface of in which the user may select a statistic or metric recorded in the 14.7 mile on which to improve. The system and application may automatically calculate the objectives with the improvement amounts added. For example a user may select options to run farther run for longer amounts of time and run at a faster pace.

Once the desired improvement has been selected and defined the user may be returned to a run setup menu such as interface of in which the selected objective is displayed in association with the run type.

In one or more arrangements once the desired type of run has been defined the device may further generate coaching based on the defined run parameters. In one example the coaching may advise the user to warm up for a longer period of time if the intended run is a longer distance e.g. 10 miles than if the run was a shorter distance e.g. 3 miles . Alternatively or additionally different warm up activities may be recommended depending on a desired pace or distance. The coaching may be provided as audio from an athlete or celebrity. In a particular example a user may select a celebrity or well known coach. Each coach may correspond to a different level of training difficulty and aggressiveness. For example one coach may challenge the user to exceed his or her defined goal by 10 e.g. by cuing the user to run faster than an average pace during the workout . Other coaches may challenge the user to exceed his or her defined goal by 30 e.g. by cuing the user to run faster than an average pace more times and for longer durations during the workout . Some coaches may correspond to different types of workouts. For example a coach may prefer interval training while another coach may prefer short sprints to longer slower runs.

Additionally tips and advice provided to the user may further include a recommendation for athletic equipment services and other products. For example upon determining that the user is planning a new workout the device may recommend purchasing a new pair of shoes if the user s current shoes are reaching a threshold wear state. The device may also recommend various types of apparel such as compression socks leggings t shirts shorts pants and the like windbreakers for windy areas thermal underwear for colder locations headbands or sweatbands in hotter climates and the like. According to one or more aspects the product recommendations may be generated based on user descriptions of previous workouts. For example if a user indicated that a workout was tiring the device may recommend purchasing a sports drink prior to beginning the next workout. In another example the weather or terrain specified in a previous workout or workouts may affect the type of product recommended. For example one type of shoe may be recommended for road running while another type of shoe may be recommended for track running In still another example moisture wicking apparel may be recommended for warmer climates while thermal apparel may be recommended for colder climates.

Various other types of recommendations and recommendation factors may be used in conjunction with the aspects described herein. For example recommended products may be digital or service related. In particular the device may recommend visiting a route mapping application or service upon completion of the run to allow the user to better visualize the various attributes of the run relative to a geographic map of the route. In another example coaching or other types of tips and information may include location specific advice. If the mobile device detects that the user is about to embark on a particular route the device may provide advice regarding the various terrains along that route. In a particular example the device may provide coaching e.g. how fast to run where to run slower or faster how much energy to expend during certain portions of the route depending on location specific information or attributes including terrain weather inclines elevations and the like. The location may be detected as described herein using GPS devices or by manually identifying a location using coordinates zip codes area codes city names and or combinations thereof. Other types of location information may include a number of users running in a particular area region of country world particular route city state zip code area code etc. . Location specific information may also be provided during the workout as the user reaches or comes within a predefined amount of distance of a location.

In conjunction with selecting the run type the user may also select audio content to be played during the workout. The user may also elect not to have any audio content playing during the workout. illustrates a user selecting a music option from interface . The music option may include a display of the current selected audio option. For example if no audio content has been selected the word None maybe displayed within the selection button. Alternatively a selected playlist name or selection algorithm parameter e.g. random category of music may be displayed.

If on the other hand the user selects the playlist option as illustrated in the user may be presented with a playlist selection interface. illustrates an example playlist selection interface i.e. interface in which the user may create a new playlist select a favorite run mix playlist a playlist comprising all purchased music and a playlist including the top 25 most played audio items. The favorite run mix playlist may be automatically generated by the device based the frequency that audio content or audio content playlist is played during workouts. Accordingly the favorite run mix playlist may differ from the top 25 most played audio items as the top 25 most played may be determined based on a total frequency during workout and non workout times while the favorite run mix playlist may be generated based only on audio content played during workouts.

By selecting the playlist creation option the user may be presented with an audio content list in a song selection interface of . The user may be able to sort the list of audio content items using options . For example the user may sort or view the list by playlist membership artist songs and videos. The user may add audio content items to the list by select each desired item from the list. An add remove indicator may change in appearance depending on if the corresponding audio content item is currently in the playlist being created. For example if the audio content item is not in the playlist indicator may be displayed as a plus symbol while if the audio content is in the playlist indicator may be displayed as a minus symbol. Once the user has finished adding audio content to the playlist the user may select option to continue the run setup. Alternatively the user may cancel playlist creation by selection cancel option . In one or more arrangements audio content may be suggested or recommended to the user based on the user s previous workout performance during those audio content items. For example if a user ran at an above average pace or ran an above average distance during a particular audio content item the device may suggest that the audio content item be added to the playlist. The same process may be used to automatically generate a suggested playlist. For example a playlist may be generated by selecting the 25 30 40 50 or other number of songs during which the user exhibited the best workout performance e.g. as defined by a particular statistic or metric such as calories burned distance pace and or combination thereof .

According to one or more arrangement the mobile device and workout monitoring application may select and or suggest audio based on a duration of the workout. The duration of the workout may be user defined or may be approximated estimated based on previous workouts of the same length or type. For example if a user has previously run 5 miles in 45 minutes the mobile device or training application may approximate a duration for an upcoming 5 mile run workout. Once the duration has been determined the mobile device or application may subsequently select one or more audio content items such as music audio books comedy shows Internet radio or the like for the upcoming workout based on the expected duration. Accordingly in the above examples the mobile device may select content to match the 45 minute duration of the run. In some configurations the mobile device may add a predefined interval e.g. 1 second 2 seconds 3 seconds 5 seconds 10 seconds etc. between each content selection. The interval may be factored into the overall duration of the audio content. Video content or a mixture of video and audio content may be selected in similar fashion.

A user may accept or reject the suggested playlist or may edit the playlist as desired. The playlist may be displayed with an indication of the total duration with and or without the inserted intervals between the content items . Accordingly as the user is modifying the playlist the duration may be updated in real time. Additionally the content duration may be displayed against a duration of the workout for easier visual comparison. For example the workout duration may be displayed as a first bar while the content duration is displayed as a second bar overlapping the first bar. Other visual representations may be used e.g. a pie chart .

In addition to music selection and run type definition the user may further define the location of the workout. illustrate a series of location definition interfaces. Upon the user selecting a location setup option the user may be presented with multiple available predefined locations in interface of . Locations may include an outdoors environment and an indoor workout environment. Other locations and types of locations may be defined such as cities landmarks and other categories of locations e.g. parks . As noted herein the selection of a particular location or location type may affect the types of sensors or devices that may be used for athletic activity monitoring. Additionally or alternatively the algorithm used to measure athletic activity might also be affected by the selected location.

Interface in displays progress information while audio content is still playing. Interface may include information similar to that displayed in interface of but instead of displaying a change music option and an end workout option interface may include a powersong option . Powersong option allows the user to activate a song that he or she may find particularly motivating. Thus if the user feels that he or she is slowing down or alternatively that they have a lot of energy the user may activate the power song to maximize performance during that segment of the workout. In one or more arrangements interface may include an instructional message advising the user on how to lock the interface to prevent accidental input. The message may include for example tapping or otherwise interacting with lock indicator .

In some arrangements no power song may have been selected or be available. Accordingly the interface might not provide a power song option. illustrate example in run interfaces displaying workout information without a power song option.

In some embodiments the lock icons or images may be predefined and selectable from a menu of lock icons or images. For example available lock icons and images may be downloaded from an on line site. Accordingly a user may customize the lock icon or image used during the workout training application. Additionally in some examples the lock icon or image used for the training application may differ from the lock icon or image used when the application is not being used on the device.

In one or more arrangements if the GPS signal is weak a message may be displayed notifying the user of the same. For example interface of displays message that indicates the GPS signal is weak and that the time and distance of the run may still be tracked. For example instead of using GPS data when it is unavailable the device may activate and or begin recording accelerometer data. In one or more arrangements use of an accelerometer or other sensor e.g. cellular triangulation may also be indicated visually in an interface e.g. using an icon word or the like .

Additionally a user may select GPS indicator of to view a map identifying the user s current location. Other options or indicators may also be displayed for allowing the user to access the map mode. illustrates map with the user s location identified by indicator .

A user may be provided with various alerts during the run upon detection of various events. For example in interface of the user may be provided with a message indicating that the run was paused. The message may further include instructions on how to resume the workout e.g. tap to resume . In another example interface of may display a message upon detecting that the battery is about to run out. The message may advise the user to save the workout prior to the battery being depleted. The message may be displayed when the battery is projected to become depleted in a specified amount of time e.g. 5 minutes 10 minutes 15 minutes 30 seconds etc.

In an interface is displayed for when a user receives a voice call during the workout. The interface may be automatically displayed replacing the in run workout interface as displayed in . If the user answers the call the workout and playing of audio content may be automatically paused. Alternatively if the user declines the call the workout may automatically be continued without interruption e.g. the interface of may be displayed once more .

In addition to the selected audio content the fitness monitoring device and application may play other audio content configured to encourage or notify the users of certain events or situations. For example various sounds such as trumpets applause fireworks or other generally encouraging audio may be played when the user reaches certain milestones or goals such as completing each mile running 1K setting a new fastest pace for a specified distance and the like. In other examples the user may be provided with encouraging or instructional messages such as You are 5 seconds behind target pace. Speed it up or You are 20 seconds ahead of target pace. Keep it up. Other messages may include You re halfway to your goal and you re running ahead of behind target pace and You re almost there. I m wondering if you can run the length of one extra song Double tap to accept In this latter example the user may be challenged to further improve on the run during the run. The user may accept the challenge at which time the workout may be automatically extended in accordance with the challenge e.g. extending the run for 1 more song .

Audio messages may also provide advice or warnings. For example a message may indicate that there is a hill coming up on the route e.g. within 0.25 miles within 0.5 miles etc. .

Additionally the device may provide in run tips to help the user achieve a specified goal. The tips or information may include for instance advising the user to start off slow for a predefined amount of time and to accelerate over the course of a second amount of time to a desired or goal pace. As described the tips and advice may be provided by real life athletes and or other fitness celebrities. In some arrangements the tips and advice may be location specific. For example the mobile device may detect other users running on the route based on GPS information and provide an indication of how the user is performing relative to the other users. In other examples the mobile device may provide information about landmarks terrain weather inclines and the like. In a particular example a user may be provided advice about a portion of a route a predefined amount of time prior to reaching that portion of the route. The system may calculate an amount of time prior to the user reaching the portion of the route based on a current pace and distance.

In another example or arrangement location specific information may be provided to the user during the run. For example based on a GPS or other location determination system signal an athletic monitoring device may determine that a landmark or point of interest is about to be passed. The device may thus retrieve audio or video information associated with the landmark or point of interest and provide the information to the user during the run and in some cases as the user passes the point of interest. For example the timing of rendering the audio and video information may be determined based on the user s current detected pace and a distance from the point of interest.

After a user completes his or her run the user may be presented with a workout summary. Additionally the device may select generate and or display words of encouragement or indications that the user has reached a goal or milestone. For example a user may receive accolades or motivational messages when the user has recorded his or her longest run duration or distance or fastest run e.g. for a 1K 10K or other predefined distance . The message may be textual in nature include audio output provide haptic feedback and or combinations thereof. Workout summaries may include different information or options depending on the location of the workout e.g. indoors or outdoors . For example a workout summary for an indoor workout may include a calibration function to insure accuracy of the data recorded while an outdoor workout summary might not include the calibration function. The difference in workout summary functionality may be attributable to the accuracy with which a GPS device is able to track distance and or pace.

Other tags may also be used and users may define their own customized tags as well. In for example a user may be allowed to select an athletic equipment tag to indicate the type of athletic equipment used or worn during the workout. In a particular example the user may identify a type of shoe or specific pair of shoes worn during a run. Specific shoes may be defined by the user and stored to the device or a remote system. The tagging of athletic equipment may allow the application device or remote system to track wear or use e.g. an amount of athletic activity performed of the athletic equipment among other information. When the wear reaches a certain threshold e.g. a number of miles or workouts the device may alert the user that replacement is recommended. The device may also recommend replacement equipment based on for example the user s current type of shoe or other athletic equipment height weight gender shoe size gait characteristics and the like. Recommendations may be made at any time and are not limited to replacement conditions. For example a system may provide recommendations when a new product comes out that matches or is determined to be suitable for the user based on current or past athletic equipment activities performed terrain on which the user frequency runs common weather conditions and the like.

Additionally or alternatively a user may tag a workout with one or more devices e.g. sensors music devices athletic activity data collection devices etc. used during the session. For example a user may identify that a GPS device was used and or that a heart rate sensor or an accelerometer was used. In some arrangements the devices used during the workout may be automatically registered in a tagging menu. The user may then edit the automatically populated devices as desired or necessary.

A monitoring and training application may further provide an ability for the user to tag or otherwise register friends or other individuals associated with a workout session. As such if a user performed a run with a friend the user may tag the run with the friend s information. In a particular example the user may select a username or other identifier associated with the friend in a tagging menu of the application. The username or identifier may correspond to an identifier registered with an athletic tracking and monitoring service a social networking site a phone number a nickname specified in a user s phonebook or the like. Multiple friends or workout partners may be tagged to a single workout session as appropriate. In some arrangements the device may automatically tag the workout session with known individuals running the same route at the same time. The device might only tag the workout session with individuals that have a confirmed relationship with the user. For example only individuals that have mutually confirmed a relationship with one another may be tagged in each other s workout sessions.

The use of tags may enable the user to sort by one or more of the tagged parameters. The user may thus limit his or her view of workout history and other workout related information to a desired set based on the one or more filtering parameters such as weather type of device used workout partners equipment used and the like.

Once the user has completed entering desired tags the device may return the user to the workout summary interface. illustrates a summary interface that displays the tags defined by the user in the workout summary. In particular the tag icons e.g. a happy face for a good mood or an umbrella for rainy conditions may be displayed in the tag option section . The tag icons may replace the text that was previously displayed prior to tagging being completed e.g. as shown in the interface of . In one or more arrangements selecting hovering over or otherwise interacting with the tagged icons may cause detailed information to be displayed e.g. in information bubbles .

Alternatively or additionally users may enter tags based on a GPS detected location. For example a user may wish to register a note indicating that he or she felt tired at a certain point along the route. The note may then be automatically registered with a particular GPS coordinates corresponding to the location where the note was entered. Alternatively the note may be entered after the run and the location manually specified by the user using GPS coordinates. Other information such as location specific descriptions of notable landmarks and the like may also be automatically registered based on the detected GPS location.

When the user completes an improvement run the user may be presented with additional information in the workout summary. For example if the user completed the objective set in the improvement run the user may be provided with a medal or other indicator for the achievement. In summary interface displays a mileage medal for setting a new distance record. The medal may be added as an indicator or tag for the workout entry in a workout history.

If however the user does not reach the goal or objective of the improvement run the device may display an interface of that encourages the user to try the improvement run again e.g. with the same objective or goal . For example interface may provide a selection menu that asks the user to set a time e.g. in 3 days in a week in 2 weeks etc. to re try the improvement run.

Reminders may be provided to the user regardless of whether the user completed the improvement run. The reminder may be used to motivate the user to achieve additional improvements or to remind the user to re try an improvement run that he or she previously attempted but did not complete. illustrates an example reminder interface. In interface the user may choose to initiate or schedule a run or to dismiss the reminder.

As described herein a user may synchronize workout data with an athletic activity monitoring service provider. If a user has completed his or her first run the device may display various interfaces in conjunction with the workout summary that allow the user to synchronize his or her data with the service provider. illustrates an interface that may be displayed if the user is a member of the service provided by the fitness monitoring service provider. on the other hand illustrates workout summary interface that includes an option to register with the service provider.

Workout data may be synchronized during a workout summary phase or while viewing a workout history. illustrate a sequence of interfaces through which data may be synchronized with the service provider. For example in the interface of the interface may indicate a synchronization in progress message while the interface of indicates a successful synchronization message. In another example the interface of indicates an unsuccessful synchronization message with an option to reattempt the synchronization.

Synchronization may also be performed in a route summary screen such as those illustrated in . For example each of the route summary interfaces may be overlaid with a semi transparent message that indicates the data is being synched has been synched or that a connection is not available.

Additionally or alternatively a synchronization message may include asking the user to register or login as illustrates in . The user may subsequently login or create an account through interfaces of respectively.

According to one or more aspects if a run timed out instead of being completed the user may be provided with an alert message with such a notification. illustrates an interface with such a message. A run may time out if no athletic activity is detected for a specified amount of time. For example if a user does not exhibit any athletic activity for 5 continuous minutes 10 continuous minutes 30 continuous minutes or the like the device may automatically end the run and generate a workout summary with an alert message advising of the time out condition. According to one or more aspects a point at which the run timed out may be displayed on a route map if the run was tracked using GPS or other location determination system. Other location determination systems may include triangulation using cellular signals Wi Fi e.g. the user s location being equated to the location of a Wi Fi service provider determining a network service provider location and the like.

Other types of post run messages may be provided to the user including coaching. In one or more examples a post run message may be generated to challenge the user to exceed one or more metrics of the newly completed run in a subsequent workout session. The messages may also indicate a distance pace amount of time required to reach an achievement. Additionally or alternatively the messages may provide improvement tips generated based on a user s performance in the completed workout. For example if a user exhibited a significantly slower pace e.g. 30 below an average pace during hills the device may provide a tip for improving performance during inclines. In another example if a user exhibited a steep decline e.g. 10 20 30 40 50 60 or more decline in pace after the third mile the device may provide advice for maintaining the pre fourth mile pace and or for maintaining a more regular pace throughout the workout.

In addition to visual messages e.g. text and or graphic messages audio messages may also be provided upon completion of a run. For example the user may be congratulated for completing a longest workout e.g. either in duration or distance . Other messages may be provided for accepting a mid run challenge and meeting that challenge. Audio messages may be provided by an automated voice or by a celebrity or friend.

In a history list view the user may be able to view details and summaries of workouts previously performed and recorded. Additionally or alternatively the data may be synchronized with a service provider in the history view. illustrates a series of interfaces illustrating the synchronization process. Synchronization may be automatic or may be triggered by a user command. If synchronization fails the synchronization may be re tried by a user command or automatically based on a predefined retry schedule. Synchronization may be performed each time the history view is loaded or when new workouts have been added since a previous synchronization time. A synchronization history may be stored to facilitate the scheduling of future synchronizations.

The user may further edit the history list to delete any undesired workout records. For example in interface of the user may select edit option . Upon selecting edit option interface may change to provide deletion options. illustrates a deletion interface through which a user may delete one or more entries. The user may use options to select the entries he or she wishes to delete. The user may be required to confirm the deletion by subsequently select a second deletion option . Alternatively the user may select option to mark the entries that are to be deleted. Upon selection a complete or confirm option the marked entries may be automatically deleted. The user may be required to confirm the deletions in either instance.

The user may define various settings that may affect the monitoring of a workout recording of data and synchronization of data. illustrate example portions of various settings interfaces. includes options allowing the user to define a distance metric e.g. miles feet meters frequency of feedback whether the screen should be locked calibration options and service provider account information e.g. to allow for data synchronization . In the user has not defined or registered with the service provider. Accordingly a tour option may also be included to allow the user to tour the features or services provided by the service provider upon the user registering.

Selection of the tour option may provide the user with additional information about the fitness monitoring and motivation features and functions of an underlying application and device. For example illustrate tour interfaces that provide detailed information describing the available features and functions.

A user may be asked or allowed to choose a power song. A power song may correspond to audio content that the user finds particularly motivating. illustrate a sequence of interfaces where a user initially selects the power song option and subsequently selects a song from a song list. The song list may be a list of songs already owned by the user or may include songs available through an audio content provider. In if a power song is not selected the power song option may indicate as much in a portion of the selection button. In contrast if a power song is selected the name of the power song may be displayed in the portion of the selection button.

In other aspects a user may define information sharing settings. For example illustrate various setting interfaces that may be used to configure information accounts and sharing settings. illustrates that workout information may be sent directly to a news feed automatically upon the user logging into the news feed service. The logging into the news feed service may correspond to approval of the automatic sharing feature.

Users may choose to share workout information or portions thereof with one or more other users friends or through a social networking site. illustrate example interfaces through which a user may share workout information on social networking sites and news feeds. In the user may be presented with a share menu that includes multiple sharing outlets including FACEBOOK and TWITTER. Menu may also include an option to synchronize workout information with a fitness monitoring service provider.

If the user chooses to share workout data through a social network site such as FACEBOOK an interface such as interface of may be displayed. Interface may include an automatically generated workout update message and allow the user to include additional information or notes in form . Upon approving the message the user may publish the data to the social networking site by selecting publish option .

Sharing workout data through a news feed service such as TWITTER may be performed through an interface such as interface of . In particular interface may require a user s login and password information to automatically access the news feed service. The news feed message may be an automatically generated message that includes workout and or route information. The user may be allowed to edit the message and or create his or her own message.

Workout information may be shared through other channels including a fitness monitoring service provider site a personal homepage and the like. In some arrangements the user may be able to publish workout information to multiple sites or services simultaneously or non simultaneously through a single sharing interface.

According to one or more arrangements a user may further access a remote fitness monitoring service site and receive data through the mobile fitness monitoring device. For example interfaces may be generated by the mobile monitoring device based on data received from the remote fitness monitoring site through a network. A user may login and or register with the remote fitness monitoring service through an interface such as interface of .

Once a user has entered user information and or login information the user may navigate through various user interfaces displaying user athletic activity records achievements schedules progress and the like. illustrate example interfaces that may be used to navigate and view workout information that may at least partially be received from a remote fitness monitoring site. In a user may be informed of a number of runs or workouts that have not yet been synchronized with the remote site. The device may reconcile data between the device and a database of the remote site to identify those workouts or runs that still need to be synchronized. The synchronization message may be displayed as part of a summary of a number of awards and trophies that the user has achieved or earned. Synchronization of the runs may be automatically initiated or initiated through a manual command.

In interface may include a summary of various workout and user data including friend invitations a daily progress indicator and goal indicators and . Friend invitations may allow for users of the athletic activity monitoring site to interact with one another. Friends may be provided different levels of privileges as opposed to non friends. For example friends may be able to view photos detailed workout information and other personal data about the user while non friends might only be allowed to view generic profile data such a name gender and a general activity level. Accordingly a user may control who is classified as a friend by confirming or accepting friend requests. The daily progress indicator identifies an amount of additional athletic activity e.g. a number of miles that must still be completed to finish a daily goal such as daily goal . In addition to daily goal goal may be defined. Goal may correspond to another achievement that the user wishes to reach. Alternatively or additionally goal may correspond to an elevation in predefined fitness levels or increase a user s ranking among multiple fitness users.

While a user may define an improvement run to set a goal for an immediate run the user may also be allowed to select a long term goal that may span multiple runs. illustrate example goal definition interfaces. In the user may select an improvement option and subsequently a distance improvement option respectively. In the user may then define the distance improvement goal by selecting an amount of distance the user wishes to run and a time period over which the distance is to be run. The user may also choose which days the user wishes to run in order to achieve the defined goal. Once the various parameters have been selected the user may set or start the goal. Similar interfaces and options may be defined for other types of goals including time goals pace goals calorie goals and the like. The user may also define daily goals. For example the user may specify how he or she wishes to accomplish the overall goal e.g. running 40 miles in 4 weeks on a day to day basis. Accordingly the user may specify that he or she wishes to run 3 miles on Mondays and 5 miles on Wednesdays. Goals may also be combined. For example the user may indicate that he or she wishes to run 40 miles in 4 weeks and achieve a pace of 8.5 mi hour.

Progress towards one or more goals may be tracked in a variety of manners. for example illustrates a goal tracking interface that displays a list of goals and a progress associated therewith. For example a monthly goal indicates that there are 6 runs left for the month. A distance goal may indicate that there are 30 miles left to be run while a calories goal or objective may indicate that the user still needs to burn 2766 calories to complete the goal.

A user may be reminded of goals and workouts for achieving the goal through various interfaces. illustrate example interfaces for providing such reminders. In interface provides a notification that the user must run 2.2 miles to reach his or her predefined goal. In interface may provide various voice notifications during the run. The voice notifications may indicate to the user a progress made toward the goal. For example the user may be provided with a message that indicates the current portion of the goal has been completed and that progress has been made to the overall goal. The message may alternatively or additionally be textual in nature and may further include reminder information such as Your next run is 3 miles on Saturday or You have 5 more runs of 2.2 miles each before completing the goal 

When a user completes a goal reaches a milestone completes an objective makes progress or completes an improvement run a user may be provided with encouraging or celebratory messages. Alternatively or additionally cheers words of encouragement and or other messages may be provided pre or mid run. These messages may include audio video images animated images tactile or haptic feedback e.g. vibrations and the like. In one or more arrangements the celebratory messages may include audio and or video messages from a celebrity such as a well known athlete. The user may be allowed to configure when such messages are to be rendered and conveyed to the user. For example the user might not want celebratory messages during the run and thus may indicate a preference that all messages be played after a workout or during non workout times. Accordingly the user may specify when messages are not to be conveyed as well. Additionally or alternatively celebratory messages may include sound effects such as a crowd cheering a bullhorn cowbell ringing vuvuzela blasts fireworks exploding slot machine jackpot sounds among others.

In some examples a user may be congratulated by a celebrity. illustrate example congratulatory interfaces that include celebrity messages. The messages may include audio and or video. The messages may be conveyed for various achievements such as completing an improvement run reaching a milestone e.g. 25 miles in a week setting a fastest pace fastest distance or fastest time. In one or more arrangements an achievement may include reaching different fitness levels. For example running 5 miles or less in a week may be considered to be a first fitness level while running more than 5 miles but less than 10 miles a week may be considered a second fitness level. Additional fitness levels may be defined and various awards or privileges may be associated therewith. For example the user may receive access to different workouts receive various awards e.g. music products services earn recognition through various public channels e.g. on a fitness monitoring site s main page and the like.

According to some aspects a type of celebratory message may be selected for delivery e.g. transmission rendering playback etc. to a user based on a number of comments or other interactions received from other users through an on line community such as a remote social networking site. For example other users may comment on or indicate that they like a workout announcement posted by the user prior to or during a workout session. The other users may also interact with the workout announcement in other ways including forwarding the announcement to others linking to the announcement from other sites labeling the announcement with other tags e.g. emoticons and the like. An athletic activity monitoring application or service may then determine a number of interactions received through the social networking site in association with the announcement. Different types of celebratory messages e.g. different sound effects or different categories of messages may then be selected and triggered depending on the determined number of interactions. For example louder or more prominent or distinctive sound effects or messages may be selected and triggered as the number of interactions increases. In some arrangements only positive interactions from other users may be counted. Thus a dislike or expression of disapproval of a user s workout announcement might not count towards an interaction total used to select or trigger celebratory messages.

In some instances each sound effect or celebratory message may correspond to a range of feedback amounts and or content of feedback. For example the first through third comment or other type of feedback may trigger a first message while the fourth through seventh comment may trigger a second message. Different thresholds triggers and ranges may be set for the different messages. Any number of ranges may be defined as desired.

Determining an amount of feedback received may include receiving the comments from an on line community e.g. social networking site and counting the amount of feedback received e.g. a number of comments . In another example determining the amount of feedback may include receiving an indication of a number of comments or feedback received in response to the posted workout information. In other examples determining the amount of feedback may be performed by another device. The other device may then provide the determination of the amount of feedback to an athletic monitoring system. The other device may also be configured to select the content e.g. sound effect video text haptic feedback to be provided to the user. Providing the determination of the amount of feedback may also be performed from one software or hardware module of a device e.g. an athletic performance monitoring device to another software or hardware module of that same device. Provision of the determination of the amount of feedback may also include storage of the determination of the amount of feedback in memory.

According to some arrangements the determination of the amount of feedback and the selection of the content may be performed by different devices such as an athletic performance monitoring service and an athletic performance monitoring device. Alternatively the determination and the content selection may be performed by the same device. In still other arrangements the determination of the amount of feedback and or the selection of content may be performed by the on line community e.g. the social networking system .

Sound effects may be used as an efficient way to notify the user that they have received a certain amount of positive feedback without requiring the user to listen to or view a lengthy audio or visual message.

Athletic activity information and information generated therefrom e.g. statistics trends recommendations etc. may be displayed in one or more interfaces as described herein. In one arrangement a user may access a remote network site that generates and displays athletic activity information for a user registered with an athletic activity monitoring service. In one or more arrangements the information displays and interfaces may be accessed through the mobile device and or a fitness monitoring application executing thereon. Alternatively the user may access the information displays through another computing device. Because in some arrangements the information displays are generated and provided by a remote fitness monitoring server the user may access the workout information from a variety of locations and devices without having to synchronize or transfer data to each of those devices or locations.

Upon selecting a particular workout to view and or analyze the user may be presented with an interface that provides details for the selected workout. illustrate an example run details page that provides a summary of the statistics recorded for the run. In the illustrative example shown in the user may be allowed to edit various parameters stored for the workout using edit option . In some arrangements some parameters might not be changeable such as the distance and time run and or calories burned. If the run was recorded with a GPS device or other location positioning system the run details interface may include a GPS indicator . Additionally the interface may display a route view option if the run was recorded with location information. Routes and route information is further described in detailed below.

Other types of workout data visualization may include displaying a current run pace curve against or over an average pace curve e.g. for a set of runs such as all runs or all runs within a specified period of time all runs for the same route etc. . Additionally or alternatively the run curve or other workout data visualization may be displayed with a music playlist that was used during the workout.

As described herein in some arrangements a user s workout may be recorded with location determination systems. Accordingly the user s route may be recorded and stored as part of the workout data. Upon retrieval of the workout data the route may be displayed for the user s review.

In portion interface may include graph of the user s pace and altitude versus time. Lines and may change in appearance e.g. in animated fashion as the animation of the user s run using icon proceeds. For example portion of line may appear bolder indicating that the animation has traversed that portion of the route. Marker indicates the animations current position in the route. Detailed information relating to that position including distance time pace and elevation may be provided as well. A replay option may be selected to have the animation replayed. A replay may in one or more arrangements play the animation at a slower pace as compared to a pace at which the animation is shown on initial load of the run and route details. Legend may provide explanations for each of markers and as well as corresponding workout data. For example the pace of the best and worst miles may be displayed while the fastest and slowest pace information may also be provided. Elevation data corresponding to highest elevation marker may further be displayed. Users may also manually create their own markers to help associate a particular location along the run or workout with a set of performance statistics.

Interacting with one or more of markers and may cause the corresponding workout data to be displayed for that particular point of the user s workout. illustrates an example interface when a user selects marker . In response to the selection graph may be modified accordingly to display the corresponding data. In one or more arrangements the user s icon e.g. icon of may be moved immediately to the selected location. Additionally or alternatively the displayed route may also be modified to reflect the position of the user s icon e.g. the portion of the route up to the selected point may be changed to reflect traversal . Non marked portions may also be selectable to view workout data. Legend may also be updated upon selection of a marker or other point on the route.

According to one or more additional aspects map dropdown menu option may display various options for the underlying map. For example the user may be able to alter the appearance of the map to display a satellite image a computer generated representation as shown in a terrain image and or a hybrid image combining satellite and terrain. illustrates a route on a map in satellite image mode.

Additionally or alternatively various types of characteristics of a route or workout may be visually conveyed using visual attributes. For example a route may include multiple colors indicating different speeds or paces heart rates and the like exhibited by the user during the run. In a particular example portions of the route line in which the user exhibited a pace above a first threshold may be displayed in green while other portions of the route line in which the user exhibited a pace below a second threshold may be displayed in red. Still other portions of the route line in which the user exhibited a pace between the first and second thresholds may be displayed in yellow. Various color gradations and characterizations may be used to represent pace speed heart rate elevation terrain weather and the like. Other visual attributes may be used to illustrate the various workout attributes including patterns transparency shading stippling and the like.

Route information may be published in one or more arrangements by selection of publish option . A user may publish information to various outlets including FACEBOOK TWITTER and or other social networking sites and news feed services. A menu not shown for specifying account information and publication options may be displayed upon selection of publish option .

Interface may further include a listing of previous workouts for the same or a similar route. Listing may include one or more entries and may include a brief summary of workout details including for example a run time and whether any achievements were recorded. For example if the user ran the route in the fastest time on January 21 that entry may include a trophy icon as an indicator of that achievement or significance. Further interface may provide improvement run suggestions in portion . In particular interface may display other routes that improve on the current route by a predefined amount of distance. The route suggestions may be generated based on routes the user has run in the past or routes that other users have run.

Alternatively a user may create a route by retrieving a previously recorded GPS route from a database. For example the user may select option to retrieve a GPS route. illustrates selection menu where multiple previously recorded routes are displayed in list . A mini map may be displayed to provide a general overview of the shape and location of the route. List may be displayed in reverse chronological order by alphabetical order by distance or the like.

If a user selects a previously recorded GPS route various fields in a route creation interface may be automatically populated. For example in creation interface has pre populated the starting address distance and the name of the route. If keywords or a description were stored with the selected route those fields might also be automatically pre populated. Because the route was generated using a GPS device the last step and follow roads options may be deactivated. Alternatively the options may remain active to allow the user to modify the route recorded by the GPS device.

By tracking and storing a user s route an athletic activity monitoring and tracking system may further evaluate the user s performance on that route against other users that have also run the same route. Accordingly the system may define various achievements based on a user s performance relative to the other users. Examples of achievements include an accolade for running the route the most number of times within a predefined time period and or an accolade for running the route the fastest within a predefined time period. The predefined time period may correspond to all time a specified number of most recent weeks months years etc. and the like.

In some instances such as that illustrated in a system might also track various distance runs along a route or a track. For example leaderboard illustrates the users who have run the identified distance the most number of times. These types of leaderboards may be used for tracks for instance where the tracks provide different distance markers allowing for specific distance runs.

Routes may be displayed or identified on a map to help the user visualize locations where he or she has performed workouts. In addition to identifying the user s workouts the map may also identify the locations of workouts for other individuals such as friends. In some arrangements the map might only display the current or last recorded workout of the user s friends. In other arrangements the map might display all recorded workouts of the user s friends over a certain amount of time e.g. all time a specified number of months days weeks years hours and the like . In still other additional or alternative arrangements the user may specify filters for displaying workouts on the maps. These filters may include parameters such as distance pace elevation incline weather geographic region e.g. state country continent hemisphere time zone zip code etc. . Selecting another user s route location indicator the user may be able to view the specifics of the route the other user s workout session on the route and the like.

The use of GPS and other location determination systems provides more granularity and additional functionality for tracking and monitoring athletic performance. In addition location detection offers users the ability to compare performances with other users and to identify other potential locations where they may run. Various other advantages and features of location determination and route tracking may also be achieved using the aspects described herein.

According to one or more additional or alternative aspects a monitoring device and or service provider may facilitate the matching of a user to a competitor in a live challenge environment. illustrates an example method for generating and processing a live challenge. For example in step a user may choose to a workout such as a 1K run. The workout may be defined and initiated through a device such as a mobile fitness monitoring device. The user may select a predefined run type configuration or may customize his or her own run. Subsequently in step the user may initiate a challenge for the 1K run to one or more other users. In step a challenge matching system may determine whether the user has specified a particular user to challenge. For example the user may have selected a friend to challenge. If so the system may determine if the selected user is currently online with an athletic activity service associated with the matching system in step . For example if the user is not signed on to the service the user may be determined to be offline. Alternatively if the user is online the user may be deemed to be online. In one or more arrangements being online may further include an active data communication connection with the user. Thus if an active data connection is not available with the selected user the user may be deemed to be offline. If the selected user is determined to be offline the system may transmit a message indicating that the selected user is not available in step . The system may subsequently display an interface allowing the user to challenge another user or to proceed directly to the run in step . The system may return to step if the user chooses to challenge another user. Alternatively the system may proceed to step where the run may be initiated without the challenge component.

If the user has not selected a particular user to challenge the system may automatically identify and select one or more users. For example in step the system may identify one or more attributes of the present user initiating the run. The attributes may include age weight height fitness level resting heart rate and the like. In step the system may search for online users that may have a threshold level of similarity to the present user. The system may subsequently transmit a challenge invitation to each of the matching online users in step . In some arrangements the matching system may filter out users that are currently performing athletic activity e.g. as not to interrupt those users . In other arrangements the matching system may identify users that are within vicinity of the same path or route or a similar route e.g. of a similar distance . Various other matching parameters and algorithms may be used to find other users to challenge. For example in some instances the search scope may be limited to a list of the user s friends rather than all users of the service.

In step the matching system may determine whether the invited users have accepted the challenge. If not the system may notify the user that the user s challenge invitation has been declined in step . The system may then display a menu such as that generated and displayed in step . If one or more of the invited users has accepted the challenge the present user may be notified of the acceptance in step . The workout may then be initiated in step as a challenge between the accepted participants.

In one or more arrangements a participant may increase the challenge by selecting an option to increase the goal amount e.g. distance calories burned pace during the challenge e.g. mid run . A notification may then be transmitted to the other participants to ask if they agree to the modification in the challenge. The challenge may then be automatically and immediately modified on the fly if a predefined number of participants agree. For example the challenge might only be modified if a majority of the participants agree or at least 75 of the participants agree or all participants agree or some other threshold or rule is met . In other examples the challenge may be modified for agreeing participants but not participants that do not agree to the modification in the challenge. In such cases two separate challenges may be created mid run one corresponding to the original goal challenge and another corresponding to the modified goal challenge. Participants of the modified goal challenge may also remain participants of the original goal challenge if the modified goal challenge is greater than the original.

At the conclusion of the challenge the users results may be compared and a winner may be declared. In some arrangements the service provider may award the winner with an accolade virtual medal virtual currency or other prize. Additionally or alternatively the system may prompt the challenge participants to engage in another run at another scheduled time to further encourage the participants to engage in athletic activity.

To further motivate users to engage in athletic activity and maintain interest a training application and device may provide additional challenges pre workout and or post workout. For example the training application may require a user to complete a pre workout challenge before being allowed to use the application to define a new run e.g. time distance or basic runs or before being allowed to start a defined workout.

Similar to the pre workout warm up activity selection mechanism described in an athletic training application may further provide a cool down activity selection mechanism. for example illustrates a cool down activity selection interface for choosing a cool down activity after completion of a workout. The application may offer this interface to advise users on the importance of cooling down after a workout and effective ways to do so. Selection mechanism of interface may operate in similar fashion to the wheel selection mechanism of . In particular wheel may be populated with any number e.g. 1 2 5 10 15 20 etc. of cool down activities and include a pointer to illustrate spinning and identify a selected task. In some environments wheel may be populated with at least two cool down activities. Cool down tasks may include stretching walking slow jogging and the like to help reduce soreness and increase flexibility. In some instances cool down activities may be required and enforced by not recording or providing credit for the associated workout if the cool down is not performed. For example workouts may be used to earn a virtual currency or metric. Accordingly if the user does not perform the cool down he or she might not earn a corresponding amount of virtual currency or virtual athletic performance metric.

Other selection mechanisms may also be used in addition to or instead of the example wheel selection mechanism of . For example a one arm bandit selection mechanism may be provided where a user pulls the arm to identify a warm up or cool down activity that is to be performed. In another example the application may simulate rolling one or more dice where each face of the dice lists a different cool down or warm up activity.

Additional features may be included as part of the athletic training application devices and systems described herein. For example the athletic training application or system may generate a virtual competitor with which the user may compete during a workout session. The virtual competitor may provide additional motivation for the user. In one example the user may specify a desired average pace for the virtual competitor and a distance or duration of the intended workout. The application or system may then simulate the progress of the virtual competitor based on the specified average pace and compare the simulated progress of the virtual competitor to the actual progress of the user. The comparison may then be conveyed to the user. In one example audible messages such as Speed up Your competitor is about to overtake you or Keep it up. You are ahead of your competitor may be provided to the user to provide an indication of relative performance. In other examples a visual display of the virtual competitor s progress relative to the user s progress may be displayed along a route map. In still other examples numerical metrics of the virtual competitor s performance may be displayed against the user s performance. Other types of relative performance indicators may be used as well.

Providing an activity monitoring system and environment having one or more of the features described herein provides a user with an immersive experience that will encourage and motivate the user to engage in athletic activities and improve his or her fitness. By encouraging the user to exceed previous statistics set in other runs the user may be motivated by the improvements he or she is able to make. Additionally users may be able to use a single device for both indoor and outdoor workouts and are thus able to aggregate workout data on a single device. Further users may be motivated to exercise by being able to issue live challenges to other users. Accordingly the users may feel as if they are working out with other users even though they are physically running by themselves.

