---

title: Digital positioning system and associated method for optically and automatically stabilizing and realigning a portable weapon through and after a firing shock
abstract: A digital positioning system that interfaces with a portable weapon to automatically realign the weapon through and after a firing shock that saturates electronic components of the portable weapon. The digital positioning system includes a digital fire control device that receives target destination data. The digital fire control device transmits the target destination data to an automatic calibration and pointing device, which, in turn, generates a reference orientation from the target destination data. In response to the firing shock, the automatic calibration and pointing device acquires a current orientation of the portable weapon, independently of the saturated electronic components, and compares the current orientation to the stored reference orientation for causing a mechanical alignment and orientation mechanism to reposition the portable weapon.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09593913&OS=09593913&RS=09593913
owner: The United States of America as Represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 09593913
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150514
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon.

The present invention relates in general to the field of weapons. Specifically the present invention relates to a digital positioning system that interfaces with the portable weapon for automatically stabilizing and realigning the portable weapon through and after a firing shock.

The gunner s role in weapons such as mortars is to receive the fire command lay in the gun and then fire the round. Laying in the mortar involves pointing it vertically and horizontally in such a way that the round will impact in a given target area. However gunners may be required to physically point calibrate and re orient the mortar using an optical sight unit that is mounted onto the mortar tube.

Upon firing the generated firing shock level might be sufficient to saturate the digital MEMS type electronic components such as the inexpensive magnetic sensors and inertial sensors e.g. inertial measurement units IMUs used in the pointing device of the portable mortars. Saturation of the electrical components such as the magnetic sensors and inertial sensors refers to the condition of the sensors being subjected to conditions outside of the sensing limits of the sensor. For example a saturated sensor may display maximum or minimum readings a signal indicating that the condition is outside the sensing range or a clipping of the output. As a result once the portable mortar is fired the saturation of the electronic components causes the orientation system to become inaccurate thus altering the realignment system and debilitating the pointing device from being able to provide orientation information. Consequently the portable mortar will then have to be manually reoriented.

Larger mortars Howitzers and other complex weapon systems that are provided with a digital fire control device dispense with the need to use optical sights and avoid the problem facing smaller portable weapon systems. These larger weapon systems are digitally pointed by means of a computer or a processor that computes the pointing direction of the gun tubes and provides accurate real time orientation instructions to a pointing device on the weapon systems.

However the cost of integrating or retrofitting the portable mortar systems with a digital fire control device used in the larger weapon systems is prohibitively expensive.

Prior to the advent of the present invention there has been no successful practical and cost effective solution to overcoming the problems associated with the saturation of the electronic components. Therefore there still remains an unsatisfied need for a digital positioning system that interfaces with portable weapon systems for automatically stabilizing and realigning the portable weapons through and after the firing shock.

The present invention addresses the foregoing concerns and presents a new digital positioning system that interfaces with a portable weapon system e.g. a portable mortar for automatically stabilizing and realigning the portable weapon through and after the firing shock.

As a result it is now possible to replace the conventional optical sight unit of the portable mortar with a digital positioning system that is comprised of a digital fire control device and an automatic calibration and pointing device. The automatic calibration and pointing device provides an alternative optical tracking method for storing a reference orientation and for determining the current orientation of the mortar tube. The digital fire control device provides the gunner with operational control via a visual interface. As a result the digital positioning system allows the portable mortar to be realigned to its initial position despite the saturation of the electronic components.

The automatic calibration and pointing device causes the mechanical alignment and orientation mechanism of the portable mortar to automatically and digitally align the mortar tube shortly after firing. The automatic calibration and pointing device incorporates a processor that uses input data from a camera and inertial sensors such as an inertial measurement unit IMU to instruct other components such as a chronometer a gyroscope a magnetometer of the current orientation of the mortar tube as needed to cause the realignment of the mortar tube to the target orientation.

As a result in the event of saturation of the electronic components such as the inertial sensors following the firing shock the portable mortar disregards the input data from these saturated components. Instead the portable mortar relies on input data from the automatic calibration and pointing device.

To this end the camera of the automatic calibration and pointing device stores a reference image associated with initial target orientation and then uses this reference image to determine its current orientation. Based on the mismatch between the target orientation as reflected in the stored reference image and the current orientation the automatic calibration and pointing device realigns the inertial sensors back to the target orientation. Consequently although the inertial sensors may become saturated after firing the automatic calibration and pointing device is capable of continuously tracking the orientation of the mortar tube without losing the stored target pointing and orientation data.

Similar numerals refer to similar elements in the drawings. It should be understood that the sizes of the different components in the figures are not necessarily in exact proportion or to scale and are shown for visual clarity and for the purpose of explanation.

With reference to they illustrate an exemplary weapon system such as a portable mortar for use by a gunner or soldier . While the present invention will be described herein in connection with a weapon system it should be clear that the present invention is equally adaptable to commercial applications to provide a continuous alignment to a target destination on a real time basis despite the saturation of the certain magnetic electrical electromagnetic and inertial sensors. While the saturation has been described herein as resulting from a fire shock it should be clear that the causes of the saturation are not intended to be limited to the fire shock.

The portable mortar generally includes a baseplate that supports a gun tube or mortar tube . A bipod provides additional support and stability to the gun tube . Optionally a conventional optical sight unit is mounted on a support or mount which in turn is affixed to the bipod .

More specifically illustrates the digital pointing device mounted adjacent to the optical sight unit in such a way as to avoid impeding the use of the optical sight unit . The digital pointing device is mounted on the support by means of a mount . illustrates the embodiment that dispenses with the use of the optical sight unit .

An exemplary mount is illustrated in as including a generally cubically shaped hollow receptacle that is open at both ends. The receptacle houses the digital pointing device . A dovetail connector extends from one side of the receptacle in order to secure the receptacle to the bipod support .

A digital fire control device is connected to an automatic calibration and pointing device by means of a cable . Alternatively the connection between the digital fire control device and the automatic calibration and pointing device can be done wirelessly or networked for remote access. The combination of the automatic calibration and pointing device and the digital fire control device is collectively referred to as digital positioning system .

The digital fire control device provides the gunner with control over the operation of the portable mortar . The gunner s instructions are transmitted to the automatic calibration and pointing device by means of the cable . In response to the firing shock the automatic calibration and pointing device calculates the current orientation of the portable mortar independently of the saturated electronic components and causes a mechanical alignment and orientation mechanism to align the mortar tube without resorting to the use of the optical sight unit .

The operation of the digital fire control device will be described in greater detail in connection with . The operation of the automatic calibration and pointing device will be described in connection with . In a preferred embodiment the operation of the automatic calibration and pointing device is described in co pending U.S. patent application titled Automatic Calibration Of Magnetic Sensors Based On Optical Image Tracking Ser. No. 14 274 917 which was filed on May 12 2014 and which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. It therefore suffices to state herein that the digital pointing device outputs pointing and orientation data related to the weapon . Exemplary output data of the digital pointing device include but are not limited to the azimuth elevation and roll of the gun tube .

The automatic calibration and pointing device accepts input instructions from the digital fire control device and outputs pointing and orientation data related to the portable mortar . Exemplary output data of the automatic calibration and pointing device include but are not limited to the azimuth elevation and roll of the mortar tube . The outputs data control the orientation of the mechanical alignment and orientation mechanism .

The mechanical alignment and orientation mechanism can be any known or available mechanism and as a result it will not be described herein in greater detail. For example the mechanical alignment and orientation mechanism shown in is a dovetail mount.

The automatic calibration and pointing device generally comprises inertial and magnetic sensors that include for example an inertial measurement unit IMU . The automatic calibration and pointing device further includes a camera a processor e.g. an image processing unit and a memory wherein the algorithm used by the automatic calibration and pointing device is stored on the memory and processed by the processor. The automatic calibration and pointing device further includes other components including but not limited to a magnetometer a gyroscope and a chronometer that are collectively referenced by the numeral .

By using the camera the automatic calibration and pointing device is capable of optically tracking the orientation of the mortar tube through and after the firing event and of further re aligning the mortar tube as soon as the firing shock has dissipated. The inertial and magnetic sensors track the motion of the mortar tube during and after firing. The camera optically tracks the movement of the mortar tube during the firing event when the inertial and magnetic sensors become saturated and thus unreliable.

The processor uses the input data from the camera to calculate the current orientation of the mortar tube in real time. The magnetometer provides heading alignment to the inertial and magnetic sensors and the camera . More specifically the processor uses input data from the camera and the inertial and magnetic sensors to instruct the other components such as the chronometer the gyroscope and the magnetometer of the current orientation of the mortar tube and if needed to cause the realignment of the mortar tube to the target orientation.

As an example the automatic calibration and pointing device can be mounted onto an 81 mm portable mortar . During the firing event the IMU and other sensors might lose alignment however the camera continues to track the true orientation of the mortar tube . Following the firing event the processor realigns the IMU and the other sensors to the reference orientation provided optically by the camera .

As a result the automatic calibration and pointing device provides an alternative optical tracking method for determining the current orientation of the mortar tube . The digital fire control device provides a visual interface for the gunner. The digital positioning system allows the portable mortar to be realigned to the initial target position despite the saturation of the electronic sensors and the other components . As a result the automatic calibration and pointing device causes the mechanical alignment and orientation mechanism of the portable mortar to automatically and digitally align the mortar tube shortly e.g. within seconds after firing.

In the event of saturation of the electronic components e.g. following the firing shock the processor disregards the input data from these saturated components . Instead the automatic calibration and pointing device relies on input optical data obtained from the camera . To this end the camera stores a reference image associated with initial target orientation and then uses this reference image to determine its current orientation. Based on the mismatch between the target orientation as reflected in the stored reference image and the current orientation the automatic calibration and pointing device realigns the saturated electronic sensors back to the target orientation.

As a result although the magnetic and inertial sensors may become saturated after firing the automatic calibration and pointing device is capable of continuously tracking the true orientation of the mortar tube without losing the stored target pointing and orientation data.

Following the firing event the mechanical alignment and orientation mechanism remains under the control of the digital positioning system . To this end the digital fire control device includes a processor or CPU and associated memory . A firing control algorithm is stored on the memory and processed by the processor as it will be explained later in greater detail in connection with . A screen provides the gunner with a visual interface between the digital tire control device and the automatic calibration and pointing device .

At step the gunner receives the instructions to start the firing mission on the digital fire control device and checks at step whether the current pointing data of the portable mortar correspond to the target data of the mission in question. If the data do not match the gunner uses the digital fire control device to input the target data into the mechanical alignment and orientation mechanism .

In turn the automatic calibration and pointing device causes the mechanical alignment and orientation mechanism to reorient the mortar tube to the target destination. Once this reorientation step is completed the gunner re checks at step whether the current pointing data of the portable mortar correspond to the target data of the mission in question. The correction loop steps is repeated until the pointing data match each other.

Thereupon the portable mortar is layed on target at step and the gunner fires the portable mortar such as by dropping the round in the mortar tube at step .

At step and in response to the firing shock the automatic calibration and pointing device undergoes an optical stabilization routine as it will be described later in connection with to correct for orientation disparity and to realign the inertial and magnetic sensors using the stored optical orientation.

At step the automatic calibration and pointing device transmits a message to the digital fire control device confirming that the alignment data have been stabilized. The gunner then determines whether to loop back to step and await a new mission or to step shown in dotted lines and continue the mission as instructed.

If on the other hand the algorithm determines at step that at least one of the sensors has reported incorrect pointing information or loss of alignment then the algorithm inquires at step whether a firing event was detected. If it has not then the algorithm proceeds to step and corrects for orientation disparity using all the sensor data that are in agreement with the reliable sensors data and loops back to step as described earlier.

If however the algorithm determines at step that a firing event was detected then it proceeds to step and inquires whether the inertial and magnetic sensors became saturated as a result of the firing event. It they have not then the algorithm proceeds to step and loops back to step as described earlier.

If the algorithm determines at step that the inertial and magnetic sensors have become saturated it proceeds to step and relies on the optical orientation data ignoring the data from all the inertial and magnetic sensors.

The algorithm then proceeds to decision step and inquires whether the inertial and magnetic sensors are functioning properly. If they are not then the algorithm loops back to step as described earlier. If however the algorithm determines that the inertial and magnetic sensors are functioning properly then it proceeds to step and realigns the inertial and magnetic sensors using the stored optical orientation data. The algorithm then loops back to step as described earlier.

It is to be understood that the phraseology and terminology used herein with reference to device mechanism system or element orientation such as for example terms like front back up down top bottom forward rearward and the like are only used to simplify the description of the present invention and do not alone indicate or imply that the mechanism or element referred to must have a particular orientation. In addition terms such as first second and third are used herein and in the appended claims for purposes of description and are not intended to indicate or imply relative importance or significance.

It is also to be understood that the invention is not limited in its application to the details of construction and the arrangements of components set forth in the following description or illustrated in the drawings. Other modifications may be made to the present design without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. The present invention is capable of other embodiments and of being practiced or of being carried out in various ways such as for example in military and commercial applications.

