---

title: Crash detection and severity classification system implementing emergency assistance
abstract: A crash detection system is disclosed that utilizes a mobile computing device to detect a vehicular accident via one or more sensors integrated into the mobile computing device. The system monitors the sensor metrics measured by one or more sensors and generates an event sensor profile that may include the plurality of sensor metrics and additional status data, such as an indication of whether the mobile computing device was located within a vehicle when the event occurred. By comparing the plurality of sensor metrics to other crash sensor metrics, a determination may be made whether the event requires emergency assistance, which may be confirmed by determining whether the data included in the event sensor profile meets one or more exception conditions. If the event requires emergency assistance and an exception condition is not met, the mobile computing device may place a call to the appropriate emergency response personnel.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09449495&OS=09449495&RS=09449495
owner: STATE FARM MUTUAL AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE COMPANY
number: 09449495
owner_city: Bloomington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150515
---
The present disclosure relates to methods apparatus systems and non transitory computer readable media for detecting vehicular accidents and more particularly to detecting a vehicular accident and automatically contacting emergency services via a mobile computing device.

In today s automotive industry vehicle crash detection systems may include proprietary systems that utilize a limited set of sensors and or specifically designed crash indicators. Traditional accident detection systems may use these sensors to measure the movement and or direction of the vehicle during an accident whether airbags have been deployed etc.

Vehicle manufacturers may use these accident detection systems to detect whether an accident has occurred and to contact a call center notifying them of the occurrence of the accident. Call center staff may then attempt to contact the driver and check his condition by placing a call to the vehicle and or contact emergency response personnel to do so.

However accident detection systems add to the cost and complexity of the vehicles in which they are implemented. Additionally not all vehicles are equipped with such systems and many drivers are not willing to pay the ongoing costs associated with maintaining such services which are typically subscription based.

Therefore accident detection systems that are not integrated within the vehicle but still detect vehicle accidents and notify emergency services once detected are useful but present several challenges.

Various embodiments are disclosed for detecting and classifying the occurrence of events while a person is inside of a vehicle. By utilizing one or more sensors integrated into one or more mobile computing devices associated with one or more persons riding in the vehicle sensor data measured by the one or more mobile computing devices may indicate a location and or movement of the vehicle. Using the sensor data the one or more mobile computing devices may determine whether the vehicle in which it is located was involved in an accident.

Because some exceptions may exist regarding whether the occurrence of an event qualifies as one that requires emergency assistance additional processing may be utilized to eliminate these exceptions which helps prevent initiating a call for non emergency events. If the event does qualify as an event requiring emergency assistance the mobile computing device may initiate a call to relevant parties to request assistance.

In one embodiment a method is disclosed for 1 monitoring a plurality of sensor metrics associated with an occurrence of an event 2 monitoring status data indicative of whether the mobile computing device is located within a vehicle during the occurrence of the event 3 generating an event sensor profile including the plurality of sensor metrics and the status data 4 determining whether the event requires emergency assistance based upon the event sensor profile and 5 initiating a call from the mobile computing device to an emergency response service when the event requires emergency assistance.

In another embodiment a non transitory tangible computer readable medium is disclosed that stores machine readable instructions in mobile computing device that when executed by a processor causes the processor to 1 monitor a plurality of sensor metrics associated with an occurrence of an event 2 monitor status data indicative of whether the mobile computing device is located within a vehicle during the occurrence of the event 3 generate an event sensor profile including the plurality of sensor metrics and the status data 4 determine whether the event requires emergency assistance based upon the event sensor profile and 5 initiate a call from the mobile computing device to an emergency response service when the event requires emergency assistance.

In yet another embodiment a mobile computing device is disclosed that includes a processor and a communication unit the processor being configured to 1 monitor a plurality of sensor metrics associated with an occurrence of an event 2 monitor status data indicative of whether the mobile computing device is located within a vehicle during the occurrence of the event 3 generate an event sensor profile including the plurality of sensor metrics and the status data 4 determine whether the event requires emergency assistance based upon the event sensor profile and 5 initiate a call from the mobile computing device to an emergency response service when the event requires emergency assistance.

The following text sets forth a detailed description of numerous different embodiments. However it should be understood that the detailed description is to be construed as exemplary only and does not describe every possible embodiment since describing every possible embodiment would be impractical. One of ordinary skill in the art will recognize in light of the teaching and disclosure herein that numerous alternative embodiments could be implemented.

It should be understood that unless a term is expressly defined in this patent application using the sentence As used herein the term is hereby defined to mean . . . or a similar sentence there is no intent to limit the meaning of that term either expressly or by implication beyond its plain or ordinary meaning and such term should not be interpreted to be limited in scope based on any statement made in any section of this patent application.

Although crash detection system is shown in as including one network one mobile computing device one vehicle one CMS one emergency services emergency contacts and one external computing device various embodiments include crash detection system implementing any suitable number of networks mobile computing devices vehicles CMSs emergency services emergency contacts and external computing devices . For example crash detection system may include a plurality of external computing devices and mobile computing devices any suitable number of which being interconnected via network .

In various embodiments one or more mobile computing devices may be permanently or removably installed in vehicle e.g. a car truck etc. . Although illustrates vehicle as an automobile various embodiments include device being permanently or removably installed in any suitable type of vehicle such as an automobile a watercraft an aircraft a motorcycle a bicycle etc.

Mobile computing device may be configured to communicate with one or more of vehicle CMS emergency services emergency contacts and or external computing device via one or more suitable communication protocols which may be the same communication protocols or different communication protocols as one another. For example mobile computing device may communicate with vehicle via a BLUETOOTH communication protocol while communicating with one or more of CMS emergency services emergency contacts and or external computing device via a cellular communication protocol.

Mobile computing device may be configured to execute one or more algorithms programs applications etc. to monitor one or more event sensor metrics to determine whether an event has occurred that requires emergency assistance from emergency services emergency contacts and to communicate with CMS emergency services emergency contacts and or external computing device via network utilizing one or more links . In various embodiments mobile computing device may be implemented as any suitable type of computing device configured to perform these functions such as a smartphone a tablet computer a laptop computer a wearable computing device etc.

In some embodiments mobile computing device may store data used in conjunction with crash detection system locally such as collected event sensor metrics threshold metric values a location of mobile computing device data used in conjunction with exception conditions phone numbers to place initiated calls etc. In other embodiments mobile computing device may store data used in conjunction with crash detection system externally to external computing device via network e.g. using links and . In still other embodiments mobile computing device may store some or all of the data used in conjunction with crash detection system as a combination of locally stored and externally stored data.

In some embodiments mobile computing device may be configured as a standalone system collecting one or more event sensor metrics and determining whether to initiate a call to CMS and or emergency services emergency contacts by processing data locally. In other embodiments mobile computing device may be configured to share and or outsource any suitable portion of processing used in the embodiments as described herein with one or more other computing devices such as external computing device for example. Mobile computing device may utilize a thin client device configuration or any other suitable type of configuration when outsourcing processing.

Mobile computing device may be configured to store the one or more event sensor metrics as an event sensor profile and or to compare the one or more event sensor metrics to one or more crash sensor metric values to determine whether an event qualifies as one potentially requiring emergency services from emergency services emergency contacts .

Additionally or alternatively mobile computing device may be configured to store status data as part of the event sensor profile such as a location of the mobile computing device a time of day an indication of whether mobile computing device is located in vehicle insurance policy information such as a policy holder s name a policy number etc. In this way the event sensor profile may include data to facilitate the identification and association of the event sensor profile with mobile computing device . For example the event sensor profile may be stored in external computing device corresponding to a phone number associated with mobile computing device so that data stored as part of the event sensor profile may be later identified by this phone number.

As further discussed below embodiments include mobile computing device making a determination of whether the event qualifies as one potentially requiring emergency services based upon whether the event sensor metrics exceed one or more corresponding crash sensor metric values as well as the event sensor metrics and or the status data not causing the event to qualify for an exception condition.

If the event qualifies as one potentially requiring emergency services from emergency services emergency contacts and does not meet an exception condition embodiments include mobile computing device initiating a call to a one or more of CMS and or emergency services emergency contacts . In an embodiment once the call is initiated a user may cancel the call from being placed by interacting with mobile computing device within expiration of a time period e.g. 5 seconds .

Network may be configured as any suitable network that facilitates communications between mobile computing device and one or more of CMS emergency services emergency contacts and or external computing device . For example network may include one or more telecommunication networks and may constitute i nodes and or ii links used for data and or communication exchange between various nodes. To provide additional examples network may include a wireless telephony network e.g. GSM CDMA LTE etc. a Wi Fi network e.g. based on 802.11x standards a BLUETOOTH network one or more proprietary networks a secure public internet a mobile based network a virtual private network or some other type of network such as dedicated access lines plain ordinary telephone lines satellite links a public switched telephone network PSTN etc. or any suitable combination thereof.

External computing device may be configured to execute various software applications algorithms and or other suitable programs used to perform one or more functions of crash detection system as described herein. In some embodiments external computing device may collect and store sensor data used in conjunction with crash detection system as previously discussed.

External computing device may be implemented as any suitable type of device to facilitate these functions. For example external computing device may be implemented as a network server a web server a database server one or more databases and or storage devices or any suitable combination thereof. One or more portions of external computing device may be implemented as one or more storage devices that are physically co located with external computing device or may be implemented as a shared database structure e.g. comprising data storage using cloud computing technology .

In some embodiments external computing device may be configured to perform any suitable portion of the processing functions remotely that have been outsourced by mobile computing device . For example mobile computing device may collect data e.g. event sensor metrics location data time of day etc. as described herein but mobile computing device may send the collected data to external computing device for remote processing instead of processing the data locally. In such embodiments external computing device may perform the analysis of the collected data to determine whether an event potentially requires emergency assistance whether the event qualifies for an exception and or may send an indication of this to mobile computing device .

CMS may be configured with any suitable number of computing devices telephones radio communicators etc. to communicate with one or more of mobile computing device external computing device and or emergency services via network utilizing one or more of links and or . In some embodiments a call initiated by mobile device in response to an event that requires emergency assistance may be placed to CMS . Therefore CMS may function as a call center and may include one or more persons who receive calls from mobile computing device and or attempt to communicate with persons in vehicle .

It may be valuable for CMS to determine a location of mobile computing device when receiving the call so first responders may be sent to the appropriate location. In some embodiments when mobile computing device determines that a call is to be placed to CMS mobile computing device may be configured to send any suitable portion of the status data to CMS which may include the location of mobile computing device for example upon occurrence of the event. This status data may be sent to CMS using any suitable technique. For example mobile computing device may send one or more portions of the status data to CMS as a short messaging service SMS message as recorded audio that is initially provided to CMS prior to person being connected etc.

Regardless of whether a call is placed to CMS and or emergency services emergency contacts embodiments include any suitable number and type of status data being sent when the call is placed. The number and type of status data sent may be the same regardless of the entity that is contacted or may vary based upon the entity that is contacted. For example a call to either CMS and or emergency services emergency contacts may result in mobile device sending as part of the status data details associated with the severity of the crash e.g. severity classification details as further discussed below . To provide another example a call to CMS may send as part of the status data details regarding the user s insurance policy such as policy numbers a policy holder name etc. while a call placed to emergency services emergency contacts may not include such information.

In other embodiments when mobile computing device determines that a call is to be placed to CMS CMS may access the event sensor profile associated with the phone number of mobile computing device to access any suitable portion of data stored in the event sensor profile that caused the call to be placed. To provide an illustrative example CMS may identify a number associated with mobile computing device when a call is received from mobile computing device . CMS may then access the event sensor profile generated by mobile computing device that caused the call to be placed from external computing device to view download etc. status data stored as part of the event sensor profile.

In some embodiments when mobile computing device determines that an event has occurred requiring emergency assistance mobile computing device may additionally or alternatively communicate with one or more other computing devices e.g. external computing device to perform one or more insurance related processes. For example mobile computing device may send the user s insurance policy number and or policy holder information to external computing device which in turn may initiate a claims process by communicating with one or more insurer applications e.g. via one or more application programming interface API service calls . These embodiments may be particularly useful when the severity of the detected crash is classified as further discussed below as low and therefore may not require emergency assistance but still may require repairs. In such a case mobile computing device may further communicate with external computing device to enable mobile computing device to generate the appropriate notifications to the user to allow the user to acknowledge the process and to further facilitate the claim being submitted.

Regardless of how CMS determines the location of mobile computing device CMS may forward this information to emergency services emergency contacts so that emergency services may be dispatched. In this way emergency response personnel may be sent to the correct location of vehicle without CMS interacting with potentially injured person.

In various embodiments CMS may communicate with emergency services emergency contacts and mobile computing device via network e.g. via links and concurrently or at different times. For example CMS may communicate with mobile computing device while contacting emergency services emergency contacts as part of a three way conference call. This advantageously provides a person associated with mobile computing device with the added piece of mind of having person on the call while they are trying to contact emergency services emergency contacts .

Emergency services emergency contacts may be configured with any suitable number of computing devices telephones radio communicators etc. to communicate with one or more of mobile computing device external computing device and or CMS via network utilizing one or more of links and or

Emergency services emergency contacts may be associated with any suitable number and type of emergency response personnel such as first responder services firefighters ambulance dispatchers police dispatch etc. Emergency services emergency contacts may additionally or alternatively be associated with one or more emergency contacts e.g. one or more specific friends family members etc. as designated by a user via one or more algorithms programs applications etc. utilized by mobile computing device . Upon receiving a call from mobile computing device either via CMS or directly emergency services emergency contacts may attempt to communicate with one or more persons in vehicle to dispatch appropriate personnel to the determined location of vehicle .

In some embodiments a call initiated by mobile device in response to an event that requires emergency assistance may be first placed to CMS via network utilizing links and who may then relay the location of vehicle and or other details of the event to emergency services emergency contacts .

In other embodiments a call initiated by mobile device in response to an event that requires emergency assistance may be placed directly to emergency services emergency contacts via network utilizing links and . In accordance with such embodiments CMS may not be necessary. When CMS is not utilized emergency services emergency contacts may determine the location of mobile computing device using any suitable techniques upon receiving a call from mobile computing device as previously discussed with reference to CMS .

In an embodiment controller may include a program memory one or more of a microprocessor MP a random access memory RAM and an input output I O interface each of which may be interconnected via an address data bus . In various embodiments program memory may be implemented as a non transitory tangible computer readable media configured to store computer readable instructions that when executed by controller cause controller to perform various acts.

For example as shown in program memory may include an operating system one or more software applications and one or more software routines . To provide another example program memory may include other portions to store data that may be read from and written to by MP such as data storage for example. Although depicts one program memory one MP and one RAM controller may include any suitable number of program memory MP and RAM .

Although depicts I O interface as a single block various embodiments of I O interface may include any suitable number and or types of I O interfaces . In various embodiments controller may implement RAM s and program memories as any suitable type of memory such as non transitory computer readable memories semiconductor memories magnetically readable memories and or optically readable memories for example.

In an embodiment one or more MPs may be configured to execute any of one or more of software applications and or software routines residing in program memory in addition to other software applications.

In an embodiment operating system may be implemented as any suitable operating system platform depending on the particular implementation of mobile computing device . For example operating system may be implemented as one of a plurality of mobile platforms such as the iOS Android Palm webOS Windows Mobile Phone BlackBerry OS or Symbian OS mobile technology platforms developed by Apple Inc. Google Inc. Palm Inc. now Hewlett Packard Company Microsoft Corporation Research in Motion RIM and Nokia respectively.

In an embodiment data storage may store data used in conjunction with one or more functions performed by mobile computing device to facilitate the interaction between mobile computing device and one or more other devices such as between mobile computing device and one or more networks e.g. network external computing devices e.g. external computing devices vehicles e.g. vehicle central monitoring services e.g. CMS emergency services e.g. emergency services emergency contacts etc. In some embodiments controller may be configured to communicate with additional data storage mechanisms that are not shown in for purposes of brevity e.g. one or more hard disk drives optical storage drives solid state storage devices etc. that reside within or are otherwise associated with mobile computing device .

In an embodiment data storage may store data such as application data for the one or more software applications routine data for the one or more software routines event sensor profile data such as measured sensor metrics threshold crash metric values exception sensor metric values location data which may include multiple locations of mobile computing device measured and stored over time geofence data an indication of whether mobile computing device is connected to and or communicating with a vehicle a phone number corresponding to mobile computing device etc.

Display may be implemented as any suitable type of display and may facilitate user interaction with mobile computing device in conjunction with user interface . For example display may be implemented as a capacitive touch screen display a resistive touch screen display etc. In various embodiments display may be configured to work in conjunction with controller and or GPU to display an indication that a call is about to be placed by mobile computing device that one or more applications are running on mobile computing device etc.

Communication unit may be configured to facilitate communications between mobile computing device and one or more other devices as previously discussed above with reference to . In various embodiments communication unit may be configured to support any suitable number and type of communication protocols based upon a particular network and or device in which mobile communication device is communicating.

For example communication unit may support communications in accordance with a communications protocols such as cellular communication protocols e.g. GSM CDMA LTE Wi Fi 802.11 standards WiMAX near field communication NFC standards e.g. ISO IEC 18092 standards provided by the NFC Forum BLUETOOTH communication protocols etc.

Communication unit may be configured to support separate or concurrent communications which may be the same type of communication protocol or different types of communication protocols. For example communication unit may be configured to facilitate communications between mobile computing device and an external computing device e.g. external computing device via cellular communications while facilitating communications between mobile computing device and the vehicle in which it is carried e.g. vehicle .

In an embodiment communication unit may store as part of status data an indication of other devices in which mobile computing device is connected to and or devices in which mobile computing device is communicating. For example if mobile computing device is paired with a vehicle via a BLUETOOTH communication protocol then communication unit may store an indication of this in a suitable portion of data storage and or to another device e.g. an external computing device such as external computing device as shown in . This indication may include data having any suitable format and or information indicating the communication status of mobile computing device such as a log of connection times media access controller MAC addresses of the devices in which mobile computing device is connected a description of the device in which mobile computing device is connected etc.

In this way communication unit may log the connection and or communication status of mobile computing device over a period time and store this information as status data with the event sensor profile corresponding to one or more events. As will be further discussed below this connection and or communication status data may be used to verify whether an event qualifies for an exception condition.

Location acquisition unit may be configured to utilize any suitable communications protocol to facilitate global positioning system functions. For example location acquisition unit may communicate with one or more satellites and or wireless transmitters to determine a location of mobile computing device . GNSS unit may use Assisted Global Positioning System A GPS satellite GPS or any other suitable global positioning protocol e.g. the GLONASS system operated by the Russian government the Galileo system operated by the European Union etc. to determine a geographic location of mobile computing device .

In an embodiment location acquisition unit may periodically store as status data one or more locations of mobile computing device in a suitable portion of data storage and or to another device e.g. an external computing device . In this way location acquisition unit may track the location of mobile computing device over time and store this data as status data with the event sensor profile corresponding to one or more events. As will be further discussed below this location data may be used to verify whether an event qualifies for an exception condition.

Sensor array may be configured to measure any suitable number and or type of sensor metrics. Sensor array may be implemented with any suitable number and type of sensors to perform the functions associated with the embodiments described herein. In an embodiment sensor array may be implemented as one or more sensors positioned to determine the force and or direction associated with movements of mobile computing device . For example sensor array may include one or more accelerometers gyroscopes magnetometers barometers thermometers proximity sensors light sensors Hall Effect sensors etc. In embodiments in which sensor array includes one or more accelerometers sensor array may be configured to measure and or collect accelerometer metric values utilizing an X axis Y axis and Z axis accelerometer. In accordance with such embodiments sensor array may measure sensor metric values as a three dimensional accelerometer vector that represents the movement of mobile computing device in three dimensional space by combining the outputs of the X axis Y axis and Z axis accelerometers using any suitable techniques. User interface may be implemented as any suitable device configured to collect user input such as a soft keyboard that is displayed on the display of mobile computing device a keyboard attached to mobile computing device an external keyboard communicating via a wired or a wireless connection e.g. a BLUETOOTH keyboard an external mouse etc.

In an embodiment one of the one or more software applications may be a crash detection application which may be implemented as a series of machine readable instructions for performing the various tasks associated with executing one or more embodiments described herein. In an embodiment crash detection application may cooperate with one or more other hardware or software portions of mobile computing device to facilitate these functions.

To provide an illustrative example crash detection application may include instructions for performing tasks such as measuring event sensor metrics storing the event sensor metrics measuring and or storing status data generating one or more event sensor profiles from the event sensor metrics and or status data storing one or more event sensor profiles to a suitable portion of data storage and or to another device e.g. an external computing device determining whether an event corresponding to the event sensor profile qualifies as an event potentially requiring emergency assistance determining whether the event corresponding to the event sensor profile qualifies for one or more exception conditions initiating a call upon a determination that an event requires emergency assistance and does not qualify for one or more exception conditions receiving user input facilitating communications between mobile computing device and one or more other devices in conjunction with communication unit etc.

One of the one or more software applications may be a web browser . In some embodiments web browser may be a native we browser application such as Apple s Safari Google Android mobile web browser Microsoft Internet Explorer for Mobile Opera Mobile etc. In other embodiments web browser may be implemented as an embedded web browser.

Regardless of the implementation of web browser various embodiments include web browser being implemented as a series of machine readable instructions for receiving interpreting and displaying web page information from an external computing device e.g. external computing device . This web page information may be utilized in conjunction with crash detection application to perform one or more function of the embodiments as described herein.

In an embodiment one of the one or more software routines may include a crash detection routine . Crash detection routine may include instructions that are executed by controller to facilitate the monitoring measurement collection quantifying and or storage of event sensor metrics measured via sensor array and or status data generated by one or more of location acquisition unit and or communication unit .

In an embodiment crash detection routine may include instructions that are executed by controller to determine a vector describing the motion of mobile computing device for use with crash detection application . In embodiments in which sensor array implements accelerometers in two or more axes crash detection and severity classification routine may also combine the data from the two or more accelerometers to establish a vector describing the motion of mobile computing device through three dimensional space and thus the motion of a respective vehicle.

In an embodiment crash detection routine may include instructions that when executed by controller cause controller to determine whether the occurrence of an event may qualify as one requiring emergency assistance subject to additional conditions as discussed below. In accordance with such an embodiment crash detection routine may include instructions that facilitate controller comparing a set of event sensor metrics to a set of respective crash sensor metrics to determine whether the event sensor metrics exceed the respective crash sensor metrics.

Because events may have varying durations various embodiments include the sensor metrics being sampled in accordance with any suitable sampling rate and a comparison being made between the event sensor metrics and the crash sensor metrics over any suitable time interval. For example the event sensor metrics may be sampled every millisecond every 10 milliseconds etc. Furthermore once the sampled event sensor metrics are quantified and stored the comparison between the stored event sensor metrics and the crash sensor metrics may be made over any number of sampling periods.

In an embodiment an event may be deemed as potentially requiring emergency assistance when the event sensor metrics exceeds respective crash sensor metrics for a duration of time corresponding to the number of sampling periods over which the comparisons are made. In this way transient sensor measurements that may result in event sensor metrics exceeding crash sensor metrics for only a small period of time e.g. 1 millisecond may not result in an event qualifying as one potentially requiring emergency assistance.

The sampling rate magnitude of the crash sensor metrics and or duration of time over which the comparisons are made may be adjusted based upon considerations such as desired accuracy the particular implementation of mobile computing device tradeoffs between sampling rate and power consumption of mobile computing device etc.

To provide an illustrative example execution of crash detection routine may cause controller to store accelerometer data measured by sensor array as event sensor metrics every T milliseconds as part of an event sensor profile. The event sensor metrics may be stored for example as combined vector movement values or as individual axis accelerometer values. During a single sampling period within the event sensor profile therefore event sensor metrics may be measured in the x y and z axes resulting in a combined accelerometer movement through three dimensional space of A1 m s.

Furthermore a crash sensor metric may correspond to X1 m s with lesser values known to be consistent with events that do not correspond to a vehicular accident. A typical crash may be known to result in excessive g forces being exerted on passengers for impulses between approximately t1 to t2 milliseconds. Therefore controller may determine that the event associated with the event sensor profile qualifies as one potentially requiring emergency assistance subject to additional conditions as discussed below if event sensor metrics within the event sensor profile have values of A1 X1 over a duration of time exceeding t1 milliseconds.

To provide another illustrative example a crash sensor metric may correspond to barometric pressure which may be sampled by one or more barometers implemented as part of sensor array for example. Upon deployment of an airbag within a vehicle the pressure within the cabin of the vehicle will increase for a brief period of time. That is when changes in cabin pressure are sampled over time an airbag deployment may result in a characteristic pressure pulse. Therefore controller may determine that the event associated with the event sensor profile qualifies as one potentially requiring emergency assistance subject to additional conditions as discussed below if event sensor metrics within the event sensor profile indicate changes in pressure over time substantially matching a predetermined pressure pulse shape. This determination may be made for example by comparing the sampled barometric pressure points over a time window and determining whether the amplitude time and or shape of the pressure pulse matches a known airbag deployment pressure profile within a certain threshold.

Because an airbag deployment may be extremely brief in nature e.g. on the order of 200 milliseconds or less aspects include sensor array sampling barometric pressure at sufficiently high rates e.g. 10 20 Hz to ensure these changes are captured and stored as part of the event sensor profile.

In an embodiment one of the one or more software routines may include a severity classification routine . Severity classification routine may include instructions that are executed by controller to facilitate classifying an event that qualifies as potentially requiring emergency assistance subject to additional conditions as discussed below.

As previously discussed with regards to crash detection routine controller may determine that an event associated with an event sensor profile qualifies as potentially requiring emergency assistance when one or more event sensor metrics included in the event sensor profile exceeds one or more threshold crash sensor metrics. In an embodiment severity classification routine may further classify the severity of such an event by for example comparing the one or more event sensor metrics to additional classifying threshold sensor metrics.

In some embodiment controller may determine that an event associated with an event sensor profile qualifies as potentially requiring emergency assistance based upon a combination of one or more sensor metrics that constitute an event sensor profile. For example some event sensor metrics may be more reliable indicator that a crash has occurred than others. In such a case controller may examine a plurality of sensor metrics using a multi threshold approach.

To provide an illustrative example an event sensor profile may include pressure sensor metrics and accelerometer sensor metrics. In the case of an airbag deployment when the vehicle windows and sunroof are open the resulting airbag pressure pulse may not be as distinct as the case when the vehicle windows are all closed. As a result even though an airbag deployment may be detected the reduced pulse shape may provide less reliability in determining whether the an airbag has been deployed or some other pressure anomaly had occurred. Therefore embodiments include controller comparing the pressure sensor metrics over a window of time to a plurality of threshold pressure severity thresholds such that increasing threshold values indicate more severe pressure pulses.

If the pressure sensor metrics indicate that a lower severity threshold is surpassed but not a greater one then controller may use a tiered approach to ascertain a better indication of whether the event sensor profile qualifies as potentially requiring emergency assistance. Continuing this example upon a detection of a weak pressure pulse e.g. one exceeding a first lower pressure threshold value but not a second higher pressure threshold value controller may proceed to examine additional sensor metrics e.g. accelerometer metrics that constitute the same event sensor profile to determine whether their values constitute a higher level of crash severity.

If so controller may determine that an airbag has deployed and that the event sensor profile qualifies as potentially requiring emergency assistance. If not then controller may determine that the weak pressure pulse was due to something else and therefore the event sensor profile does not qualify as potentially requiring emergency assistance. In an embodiment severity classification routine may additionally or alternatively classify the severity of such an event by assigning any suitable number of thresholds having any suitable values in such a manner such that sensor metrics may be appropriately weighted based upon their respective reliability in determining whether the event sensor profile qualifies as potentially requiring emergency assistance.

Classifications may be based on any suitable range of threshold values. To provide an illustrative example the base threshold crash sensor metric may be represented by an acceleration metric value of X1 m s while severity classification routine may include additional classifying threshold sensor metrics Y1 m sand Z1 m s. Y1 m smay be selected such that it exceeds X1 m s while Z1 m smay be selected such that it exceeds both X1 m sand Y1 m s. Although two classifying threshold sensor metrics are used in this example embodiments include crash detection routine implementing any suitable number of classifying threshold sensor metrics.

In an embodiment once controller determines that an event may qualify as potentially requiring emergency assistance controller may further execute instructions stored in severity classification routine to classify the severity of the event based upon the number of classifying threshold sensor metrics that are exceeded by the event sensor metrics. Using the example above if A1 m sexceeds both X1 m sand Y1 m s then controller may assign a moderate classification to the event. To continue this example if A1 m sexceeds only X1 m s then controller may assign a light classification to the event. To further continue this example if A1 m sexceeds X1 m s Y1 m s and Z1 m s then controller may assign a severe classification to the event.

In some embodiments although the event may qualify as one potentially requiring emergency assistance mobile computing device may only initiate a call when an event has been classified in excess of a particular threshold classification. These embodiments may be particularly useful when additional customization or control is desired regarding the nature of the event that may result in a call being placed.

In other embodiments the number called may be dependent upon the classification of the event. For example mobile computing device may initiate a call to a CMS for events classified as light and moderate but may initiate a call directly to emergency services e.g. E 911 for events classified as severe. In this way mobile computing device may ensure that emergency assistance is requested in the most efficient way based upon the severity of the crash detected.

In yet additional embodiments classification of the severity of the event may not be utilized. In accordance with such embodiments calls may be initiated from mobile computing device based upon the determination made via execution of crash detection routine and thus severity classification routine may not be needed in accordance with such embodiments.

Mobile computing device may be subjected to one or more events that are unrelated to a vehicle crash but nonetheless still generate one or more event sensor metrics that produce similar sensor metrics as a vehicle crash. Therefore in an embodiment one or more of software routines may include an exception routine . Exception routine may include instructions that are executed by controller to facilitate the verification of whether an event that qualifies as potentially requiring emergency assistance actually results in a call being initiated from mobile computing device .

For example instructions stored in exception routine may facilitate the comparison of one or more event sensor metrics within an event sensor profile to one or more respective exception sensor metrics and or the determination of whether mobile computing device was located in a vehicle when the event occurred. In various embodiments exception routine may include instructions to facilitate any suitable number of these exceptions and or conditions being verified.

In various embodiments any suitable number of exceptions may be modeled using a variety of exception sensor metrics based upon the various desired exceptions that are anticipated. To provide an illustrative example a person may drop mobile computing device while they are inside or outside of a vehicle. In such a case exception sensor metrics may include accelerometer metrics for each of the x y and z axes that indicate acceleration substantially in only the z axis. By comparing the one or more event sensor metrics to the exception sensor metrics in such a manner a determination may be made whether the one or more event sensor metrics match the exception metrics within a threshold tolerance. If so then an event that was determined as potentially requiring emergency assistance may be dismissed as meeting this exception condition.

Furthermore a person may take mobile computing device on amusement park rides thrill rides etc. that may produce similar event sensor metrics as a vehicle crash. Therefore in various embodiments any suitable number of geofences may be used to determine whether the event meets an exception condition i.e. whether mobile computing device is located within one or more geofences associated with locations of amusement parks theme parks etc.

As previously discussed the event qualifying as potentially requiring emergency assistance may include an event sensor profile having status data such as a location of mobile computing device when the event occurred. Therefore using the location of mobile computing device stored as part of the status data controller may compare this location to one or more geofences to determine whether mobile computing device was at a location within the geofences when the event occurred. If so then an event that was determined as potentially requiring emergency assistance may be dismissed as meeting this exception condition.

Still further mobile computing device may be subjected to one or more actions while outside of a vehicle that may produce similar event sensor metrics as a vehicle crash. Therefore in various embodiments an indication of whether mobile computing device was located in a vehicle at the time of the event may be used as another exception condition. In some embodiments this information may also be used as a trigger to launch and or execute crash detection application such that events are monitored once mobile computing device enters a vehicle. In other embodiments this information may be used as an exception condition while mobile computing device otherwise monitors such events.

To provide another illustrative example as previously discussed the event qualifying as potentially requiring emergency assistance may include an event sensor profile having status data that indicates whether mobile computing device is connected and or communicating with a vehicle e.g. via a paired BLUETOOTH connection . In an embodiment instructions stored in exception routine may facilitate the determination of whether mobile computing device was located in a vehicle when the event occurred. If not then an event that was determined as potentially requiring emergency assistance may be dismissed as meeting this exception condition.

To provide another illustrative example as previously discussed the event qualifying as potentially requiring emergency assistance may include an event sensor profile having status data that indicates mobile computing device s tracked location data. In an embodiment instructions stored in exception routine may facilitate the determination of whether mobile computing device was moving in excess of a threshold speed that was maintained for a threshold time period when the event occurred. That is the tracking data may enable controller to determine a velocity of mobile computing device e.g. via timestamps sampling rate etc. and whether mobile computing device has maintained this velocity for a threshold period of time. This threshold velocity may be chosen as a value that would likely ensure that mobile computing device was in a vehicle e.g. 15 mph 25 mph etc. . Likewise the threshold period of time may be chosen to help ensure that transient conditions do not generate false conditions e.g. 20 mph for 5 seconds for 10 seconds etc. . If mobile computing device was determined to not me moving in such a manner when the event occurred then an event that was determined as potentially requiring emergency assistance may be dismissed as meeting this exception condition.

Once an event has been determined as potentially qualifying for emergency assistance and an exception condition is not found crash detection application may cause mobile computing device to initiate a call to the appropriate party. As will be further discussed below with reference to a person may cancel this call within a certain period of time to further control the number of calls placed and to ensure that those placed are necessary. In various embodiments crash detection application may cause mobile computing device to store one or more contact numbers used to place the call upon detection of an event requiring emergency assistance.

In some embodiments this contact may include a default emergency services number e.g. E 911 based upon the user s location and or operative cellular network used to place the call. But in other embodiments these contacts may be customized and or preprogrammed into mobile computing device by a user such as via user interface for example. In accordance with embodiments utilizing one or more customizable contacts a user may specify a list of contacts in lieu of or in addition to those specified for emergency services. For example a user may specify that when an event is detected requiring emergency assistance mobile computing device first contact E 911 services and when this call is terminated to contact a family member friend etc. from contacts stored or otherwise associated with mobile computing device .

To provide another example a user may specify that when an event is detected requiring emergency assistance mobile computing device contact a friend family member etc. as an alternative to contacting emergency services. Further continuing this example a user may specify a customized prioritized list of any suitable number of contacts in this way. Mobile computing device may place a call to a contact associated with the highest priority and if the highest priority contact call is not answered or the call otherwise ends before a threshold time period elapses subsequent attempts may be made according to the priority order that has been specified by the user.

In some embodiments one or more of software applications and or software routines may reside in program memory as default applications that may be bundled together with the OS of mobile computing device . For example web browser may be part of software applications that are included with OS implemented by device .

In other embodiments one or more of software applications and or software routines may be installed on mobile computing device as one or more downloads such as an executable package installation file downloaded from a suitable application store via a connection to the Internet. For example crash detection application crash detection routine severity classification routine and or exception routine may be stored to suitable portions of program memory upon installation of a package file downloaded in such a manner. Examples of package download files may include downloads via the iTunes store the Google Play Store the Windows Phone Store downloading a package installation file from another computing device etc. Once downloaded crash detection application may be installed on device as part of an installation package such that upon installation of crash detection application on mobile computing device crash detection routine severity classification routine and or exception routine may also be installed.

In the present embodiments the screenshot shown in is an example of what may be displayed to a user once a client application e.g. crash detection application is launched or otherwise executed on a mobile computing device in accordance with the various embodiments as describe herein. In the present embodiments screenshot may be displayed using any suitable interface device such as display for example as shown in . As will be appreciated by those of ordinary skill in the relevant art s the example screenshot shown in is for illustrative purposes and the described functions may be implemented using any suitable format and or design without departing from the spirit and scope of the present disclosure.

Portion may include any suitable graphic information label prompt etc. to indicate the client application is currently running. In some embodiments portion may be omitted.

Portion may include any suitable graphic information label prompt etc. to indicate that a crash has been detected and that a call will be placed to the appropriate parties. For example as shown in a message may include relevant text alert sensors indicate that you have been in an accident this application will automatically call emergency services in etc. Although not shown in for purposes of brevity portion may include any suitable effects to enhance emphasize etc. portion or the entire screen e.g. flashing changing colors etc.

As shown in portion may include any suitable graphic information label prompt etc. to display a timer via display . As shown in the display timer may include a numerical indicator to allow the user a period of time in which to respond before the mobile computing device automatically initiates the call.

As shown in portion may include any suitable graphic information label prompt etc. to display a message that provides the user with instructions on how to cancel the call from being placed.

In an embodiment portion may be implemented as an interactive portion of the display such that a user may select portion using an appropriate gesture such as tapping the portion with the user s finger etc. If a user elects to cancel the call he may respond within the time period as indicated in portion prior to expiration of the timer. Upon selecting portion the call may be cancelled. In an embodiment user interface may receive the gesture as an input controller may process the received input in conjunction with exception routine and the call may be canceled.

If the user does not elect to cancel the call then the mobile computing device will initiate the call upon expiration of the timer. Although 5 seconds is shown in for illustrative purposes any suitable time period may be selected to provide a user with a suitable period of time in which to cancel the call e.g. 3 seconds 10 seconds etc. .

Method may start when one or more processors monitors one or more sensor metrics associated with an occurrence of an event block . The one or more sensor metrics may include for example accelerometer data measured in one or more axes. The monitoring may include sampling the one or more sensor metrics at a sampling rate block such that the one or more sensor metrics are measured and or stored over one or more sampling points in accordance with the sampling rate block .

Method may include one or more processors monitoring status data indicative of whether the mobile computing device is located within a vehicle during the occurrence of the event block . The status data may include for example data indicative of whether the mobile computing device in which method is performed e.g. mobile computing device is connected to and or communicating with a vehicle a location of the mobile computing device a plurality of locations of the mobile computing device logged over a period time etc. block .

Method may include one or more processors generating an event sensor profile including the plurality of sensor metrics and the status data block . This may include for example a mobile computing device e.g. mobile computing device storing an event sensor profile including one or more sampled event sensor metrics and or status data in a suitable memory location e.g. data storage external computing device etc. block .

Method may include one or more processors determining whether the one or more sensor metrics exceed respective crash sensor metric values block . This determination may be made for example by comparing any suitable number or type of sampled sensor metrics to one or more crash sensor metric values. For example any suitable number of sampled combined accelerometer motion data or sampled individual accelerometer axis data over any duration may be compared to the crash sensor metric values block .

If the one or more sensor metrics do not exceed the respective crash sensor metric values then the event does not correspond to one requiring emergency assistance block and method reverts to continue monitoring one or more sensor metrics associated with an occurrence of an event block .

However if the one or more sensor metrics do exceed the respective crash sensor metric values then the event potentially corresponds to one requiring emergency assistance block and method continues block .

Method may include one or more processors determining whether the event that was found as potentially requiring emergency assistance block meets one or more exception conditions block . This determination may be made for example by comparing the one or more sensor metrics to one or more exception sensor metrics to determine whether the mobile computing device in which method is performed was dropped or otherwise not involved in a vehicular accident block .

This determination may be made for example utilizing one or more portions of the status data block previously stored block . For example if the status data indicates that the mobile computing device in which method is performed e.g. mobile computing device was not located inside of a vehicle when the event occurred or that the mobile computing device was located in a geofenced area corresponding to an exception condition then the event sensor profile would meet these exception conditions block .

If the event sensor profile indicates that an exception has been met block then the event does not correspond to one requiring emergency assistance and method reverts to continue monitoring one or more sensor metrics associated with an occurrence of an event block .

However if the event sensor profile indicates that an exception has not been met block then the event does correspond to one requiring emergency assistance and method continues block .

Method includes initiating a call from a mobile computing device to the appropriate emergency response personnel block . This could include for example a call being placed to a central monitoring service e.g. CMS and or emergency services e.g. emergency services emergency contacts .

The following additional considerations apply to the foregoing discussion. Throughout this specification plural instances may implement components operations or structures described as a single instance. Although individual operations of one or more methods are illustrated and described as separate operations one or more of the individual operations may be performed concurrently and nothing requires that the operations be performed in the order illustrated. Structures and functionality presented as separate components in example configurations may be implemented as a combined structure or component. Similarly structures and functionality presented as a single component may be implemented as separate components. These and other variations modifications additions and improvements fall within the scope of the subject matter of the present disclosure.

Additionally certain embodiments are described herein as including logic or a number of components or modules. Modules may constitute either software modules e.g. code stored on a machine readable medium or hardware modules. A hardware module is tangible unit capable of performing certain operations and may be configured or arranged in a certain manner. In example embodiments one or more computer systems e.g. a standalone client or server computer system or one or more hardware modules of a computer system e.g. a processor or a group of processors may be configured by software e.g. an application or application portion as a hardware module that operates to perform certain operations as described herein.

In some cases a hardware module may include dedicated circuitry or logic that is permanently configured e.g. as a special purpose processor such as a field programmable gate array FPGA or an application specific integrated circuit ASIC to perform certain operations. A hardware module may also include programmable logic or circuitry e.g. as encompassed within a general purpose processor or other programmable processor that is temporarily configured by software to perform certain operations. It will be appreciated that the decision to implement a hardware module in dedicated and permanently configured circuitry or in temporarily configured circuitry e.g. configured by software may be driven by cost and time considerations.

Accordingly the term hardware should be understood to encompass a tangible entity be that an entity that is physically constructed permanently configured e.g. hardwired or temporarily configured e.g. programmed to operate in a certain manner or to perform certain operations described herein. Considering embodiments in which hardware modules are temporarily configured e.g. programmed each of the hardware modules need not be configured or instantiated at any one instance in time. For example where the hardware modules comprise a general purpose processor configured using software the general purpose processor may be configured as respective different hardware modules at different times. Software may accordingly configure a processor for example to constitute a particular hardware module at one instance of time and to constitute a different hardware module at a different instance of time.

Hardware and software modules can provide information to and receive information from other hardware and or software modules. Accordingly the described hardware modules may be regarded as being communicatively coupled. Where multiple of such hardware or software modules exist contemporaneously communications may be achieved through signal transmission e.g. over appropriate circuits and buses that connect the hardware or software modules. In embodiments in which multiple hardware modules or software are configured or instantiated at different times communications between such hardware or software modules may be achieved for example through the storage and retrieval of information in memory structures to which the multiple hardware or software modules have access. For example one hardware or software module may perform an operation and store the output of that operation in a memory device to which it is communicatively coupled. A further hardware or software module may then at a later time access the memory device to retrieve and process the stored output. Hardware and software modules may also initiate communications with input or output devices and can operate on a resource e.g. a collection of information .

The various operations of example methods described herein may be performed at least partially by one or more processors that are temporarily configured e.g. by software or permanently configured to perform the relevant operations. Whether temporarily or permanently configured such processors may constitute processor implemented modules that operate to perform one or more operations or functions. The modules referred to herein may in some example embodiments comprise processor implemented modules.

Similarly the methods or routines described herein may be at least partially processor implemented. For example at least some of the operations of a method may be performed by one or processors or processor implemented hardware modules. The performance of certain of the operations may be distributed among the one or more processors not only residing within a single machine but deployed across a number of machines. In some example embodiments the processor or processors may be located in a single location e.g. within a home environment an office environment or as a server farm while in other embodiments the processors may be distributed across a number of locations.

The one or more processors may also operate to support performance of the relevant operations in a cloud computing environment or as a SaaS. For example at least some of the operations may be performed by a group of computers as examples of machines including processors these operations being accessible via a network e.g. the Internet and via one or more appropriate interfaces e.g. application program interfaces APIs . 

The performance of certain of the operations may be distributed among the one or more processors not only residing within a single machine but deployed across a number of machines. In some example embodiments the one or more processors or processor implemented modules may be located in a single geographic location e.g. within a home environment an office environment or a server farm . In other example embodiments the one or more processors or processor implemented modules may be distributed across a number of geographic locations.

Some portions of this specification are presented in terms of algorithms or symbolic representations of operations on data stored as bits or binary digital signals within a machine memory e.g. a computer memory . These algorithms or symbolic representations are examples of techniques used by those of ordinary skill in the data processing arts to convey the substance of their work to others skilled in the art. As used herein an algorithm or a routine is a self consistent sequence of operations or similar processing leading to a desired result. In this context algorithms routines and operations involve physical manipulation of physical quantities. Typically but not necessarily such quantities may take the form of electrical magnetic or optical signals capable of being stored accessed transferred combined compared or otherwise manipulated by a machine. It is convenient at times principally for reasons of common usage to refer to such signals using words such as data content bits values elements symbols characters terms numbers numerals or the like. These words however are merely convenient labels and are to be associated with appropriate physical quantities.

Unless specifically stated otherwise discussions herein using words such as processing computing calculating determining presenting displaying or the like may refer to actions or processes of a machine e.g. a computer that manipulates or transforms data represented as physical e.g. electronic magnetic or optical quantities within one or more memories e.g. volatile memory non volatile memory or a combination thereof registers or other machine components that receive store transmit or display information.

As used herein any reference to one embodiment or an embodiment means that a particular element feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment. The appearances of the phrase in one embodiment in various places in the specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment.

Some embodiments may be described using the expression coupled and connected along with their derivatives. For example some embodiments may be described using the term coupled to indicate that two or more elements are in direct physical or electrical contact. The term coupled however may also mean that two or more elements are not in direct contact with each other but yet still co operate or interact with each other. The embodiments are not limited in this context.

As used herein the terms comprises comprising includes including has having or any other variation thereof are intended to cover a non exclusive inclusion. For example a process method article or apparatus that comprises a list of elements is not necessarily limited to only those elements but may include other elements not expressly listed or inherent to such process method article or apparatus. Further unless expressly stated to the contrary or refers to an inclusive or and not to an exclusive or. For example condition A or B is satisfied by any one of the following A is true or present and B is false or not present A is false or not present and B is true or present and both A and B are true or present .

In addition use of the a or an are employed to describe elements and components of the embodiments herein. This is done merely for convenience and to give a general sense of the description. This description should be read to include one or at least one and the singular also includes the plural unless it is obvious that it is meant otherwise.

Upon reading this disclosure those of skill in the art will appreciate still additional alternative structural and functional designs for providing an interface for inspecting indoor and outdoor map data through the disclosed principles herein. Thus while particular embodiments and applications have been illustrated and described it is to be understood that the disclosed embodiments are not limited to the precise construction and components disclosed herein. Various modifications changes and variations which will be apparent to those skilled in the art may be made in the arrangement operation and details of the method and apparatus disclosed herein without departing from the spirit and scope defined in the appended claims.

