---

title: Method and system for determining signal penetration of one or more neighbor base stations
abstract: A method and system for determining signal penetration of one or more neighbor base stations is disclosed. The method comprises: receiving one or more measurement reports from one or more UEs associated with a serving base station, wherein the one or more measurement reports comprise signal strength values of the one or more neighbor base stations; identifying a location of each of the one or more UEs based on the one or more measurement reports; determining a distance between one or more pairs of UEs based on the location of the each UE; defining one or more penetration areas based on the one or more distances between the one or more pairs of UEs; and determining signal penetration in the one or more penetration areas based on the one or more pairs of UEs associated with each of the penetration areas.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09660881&OS=09660881&RS=09660881
owner: Wipro Limited
number: 09660881
owner_city: Bangalore
owner_country: IN
publication_date: 20150623
---
This U.S. patent application claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 to India Application No. 1606 CHE 2015 filed Mar. 28 2015. The aforementioned applications are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

This disclosure relates generally to signal coverage of base stations and more particularly to a method and system for determining signal penetration of one or more neighbor base stations into coverage area of a serving base station.

In a broadband wireless network several base stations may be deployed to provide the desired service coverage to end users using mobile User Equipment UE . The base stations provide the signal coverage or cell coverage over an area based on the transmitting power of the base station. Some limitations which impact the end user service quality may include call continuity and call quality which are impacted by cell coverage and signal level . Hence inadequate cell coverage and improper signal level may impact end user service quality and cost of operations.

To meet the above need base stations may be deployed such that there is some overlapped area so that proper handover takes place in order to maintain call continuity and hence service quality. Typically the overlap zones are designed initially based on standard mechanisms. However actual field of the network actual overlap zones and extent of coverage may be impacted based on factors like landscape obstruction reflections etc. and operating environment noise humidity wind etc. . This may lead to unwanted penetration of signal into neighbouring base station s coverage area and also may lead to above or below threshold overlap coverage among neighbouring base stations.

In one embodiment a method of determining signal penetration of one or more neighbor base stations is disclosed. The method comprises receiving one or more measurement reports from one or more User Equipment UEs associated with a serving base station wherein the one or more measurement reports comprise Reference Signal Received Power RSRP values of the one or more neighbor base stations identifying a location of each of the one or more UEs based on the one or more measurement reports determining a distance between one or more pairs of UEs based on the location of the each UE defining one or more penetration areas based on the one or more distances between the one or more pairs of UEs wherein the one or more penetration areas are associated with the one or more neighbor base stations and determining by the signal penetration computing device signal penetration in the one or more penetration areas based on the one or more pairs of UEs associated with each of the penetration areas.

In another embodiment a signal penetration computing device for determining signal penetration of one or more neighbor base stations is disclosed. The signal penetration computing device comprises a processor and a memory communicatively coupled to the processor wherein the memory stores processor executable instructions which on execution cause the processor to receive one or more measurement reports from one or more User Equipment UEs associated with a serving base station wherein the one or more measurement reports comprise Reference Signal Received Power RSRP values received by UEs of the one or more neighbor base stations identify a location of each of the one or more UEs based on the one or more measurement reports determine a distance between one or more pairs of UEs based on the location of the each UE define one or more penetration areas based on the one or more distances between the one or more pairs of UEs wherein the one or more penetration areas are associated with the one or more neighbor base stations and determine signal penetration in the one or more penetration areas based on the one or more pairs of UEs associated with each of the penetration areas.

It is to be understood that both the foregoing general description and the following detailed description are exemplary and explanatory only and are not restrictive of the invention as claimed.

Exemplary embodiments are described with reference to the accompanying drawings. Wherever convenient the same reference numbers are used throughout the drawings to refer to the same or like parts. While examples and features of disclosed principles are described herein modifications adaptations and other implementations are possible without departing from the spirit and scope of the disclosed embodiments. It is intended that the following detailed description be considered as exemplary only with the true scope and spirit being indicated by the following claims.

An exemplary high level network depicting a broadband wireless network architecture is illustrated in . For purposes of illustration the network corresponds to an LTE network. However the depicted LTE network is merely an exemplary network and thus it will be understood that the teachings of the disclosure contemplate other broadband wireless networks such as WiMax High Speed Packet Access 3GPP s HSPA etc.

In one or more user equipment UE such as UE and UE may communicate wirelessly with a Base Station BS that is an LTE base station. In this case BS acts as the serving BS for both UE and UE . The functionalities of BS may include Radio Resource Management RRM header compression and encryption of user data stream packet scheduling and transmission physical layer processing etc. An example of a UE may be a cell phone PDA tablet computer etc. The BS may communicate with an evolved packet core EPC that may include a Mobility Management Entity MME associated with a serving gateway S GW . The MME and the S GW are represented together in as MME S GW and MME S GW for the sake of simplicity. However it is to be noted that the MME and the S GW in some embodiments may be separate and distinct entities. The MME manages and stores UE context and further generates temporary identities and allocates them to UEs. The SGW routes and forwards user data packets while also acting as the mobility anchor for the user plane during inter BS handovers and as the anchor for mobility between LTE and other 3GPP technologies. Network may further include a Packet Data Network Gateway PDN GW that provides connectivity to UE and UE to external packet data networks by being the point of exit and entry of traffic for UE and UE . A UE may have simultaneous connectivity with more than one PDN GW for accessing multiple PDNs. The PDN GW performs policy enforcement packet filtering for each user charging support lawful Interception etc.

In addition to the serving BS network may further include neighboring BSs such as a BS and a BS . It is to be noted that while only BS and BS are illustrated as neighbors in for sake of simplicity serving BS may have any number of neighbors. The serving BS may maintain a neighbor relation table NRT that provides information corresponding to neighboring BSs. The NRT may be used by serving BS to determine which neighbor to handover a UE to. BS may discover neighbor BS using an Automatic Neighbor Relation ANR function. Here the serving BS may receive measurement reports from all UEs currently served by the BS that is from UE and UE . The measurement reports may include various signal strength measurements between the UE and a number of BSs in the vicinity of the UE. In this case UE may detect a signal from BS and accordingly provide this information to serving BS . The serving BS may check its own NRT to verify if BS has been added as a neighbor. On determining that BS is not on the NRT serving BS may update the NRT to include the discovered neighbor BS .

On receiving the measurement reports from the various UEs a location of each UE may be identified based on the measurement reports at step . The Global Navigation Satellite System GNSS location included in the measurement reports may be used to determine the location of the UEs. In some embodiments the coverage area of the serving BS may be divided into sectors and the location of each UE may be determined within a corresponding sector. The coverage area of the serving BS may be divided into different sectors to account for the signal transmission strength of the serving BS being different in different directions.

Thereafter at step a distance between one or more pairs of UEs may be determined based on the location of the UEs. In other words a distance between a first UE and each of the other UEs from which measurement reports were received is determined. Distances between a particular UE and all other UEs may be determined based on the locations of the UEs. For example if there are four UEs then a distance between the first UE and the second UE distance between the first UE and the third UE and distance between the first UE and the fourth UE may be determined. Similarly a distance between the second UE and the third UE and distance between the second UE and fourth UE may be determined. This may be done until distances between all pairs of UEs are determined. Each such UE may be considered a measurement point.

On determining distances between possible pairs of UEs one or more penetration areas may be defined at step . A penetration area in this context may be formed by three or more measurement points. If the distance between any two measurement points is below a predefined distance threshold distance then those measurement points may be considered as candidates for defining a penetration area. A penetration area may be a triangular or quadrangular shape area defined by three or more measurement points or UEs. The three or more measurement points may be selected to form a penetration area if the distance between each pair of UEs that make up the three or more measurement points is less than the predefined distance threshold. The one or more penetration areas may be associated with the one or more neighboring BSs that is each penetration area may correspond to a signal penetration from a particular neighbor BS. Since each UE receives RSRP values from various neighboring BSs the RSRP values for a particular neighbor as measured by various UEs may be used to define a penetration area for that particular neighboring BS. In case there are no UEs in certain areas of the coverage areas and hence no measurement reports associated with such areas the signal penetration of neighboring BSs may be predicted from the measurement reports of UEs in close proximity to the areas where no UEs are present.

Upon determining the one or more penetration areas associated with the one or more neighboring BSs signal penetration of the one or more neighboring BSs in these penetration areas is determined at step . The signal penetration of the various neighbor BSs may be determined based on the RSRP values of the various neighbor BSs measured by the UEs that form the vertices of the one or more penetration areas. The signal penetration from the neighboring BSs into the coverage area of the serving BS may be determined by using a path loss method for each of the vertices that make up a particular penetration area. In other words the signal penetration of a particular neighboring BS may be determined using path loss method on the RSRP values of the particular neighboring BS measured by the UEs that make up the penetration area for which the signal penetration is to be determined.

In some embodiments once the signal penetration of the neighboring BSs are determined the transmission signal power values of the neighboring BSs may be adjusted in order to minimize the signal penetration into the coverage area of the serving BS at step . The transmission signal value may be corrected based on a comparison between the actual signal penetration determined and the expected signal penetration as given by BS BS BS

Once the transmission signal power of the neighboring BSs have been corrected the signal penetration of the neighboring BSs may be verified by comparing the previously determined signal penetration with a current signal penetration determined after correcting the neighboring BS s transmission power at step . If the deviation is below a predefined error threshold then the signal penetration value may be considered accurate.

A signal penetration computing device for determining signal penetration of one or more neighbor base stations BSs will now be described with reference to . illustrates a block diagram of signal penetration computing device in accordance with some embodiments of the present disclosure. Signal penetration computing device may include a processor and a memory communicatively coupled to processor wherein memory stores processor executable instructions. The instructions on execution may cause processor to receive one or more measurement reports from one or more User Equipment UEs associated with a serving BS. The one or more measurement reports may include among other parameters a signal strength measurement of BSs neighboring the serving base station. In some embodiments the signal strength measurements may correspond to Reference Signal Received Power RSRP values. The UEs measure the RSRP values of neighboring BSs while being served by the serving base station and provide this information to signal penetration computing device . In some embodiments processor may compare the RSRP values of the neighboring BSs as measured by the UEs with a predefined RSRP threshold value. The measurements that exceed the predefined RSRP threshold may be considered for subsequent steps. If a UE measured RSRP value of a particular neighbor BS is below the RSRP threshold then that UE may not be considered for determining signal penetration of that particular neighbor BS. Thus one or more neighbor BSs may be filtered from consideration in case the RSRP values of the one or more neighbor BSs are below a predefined the predefined RSRP threshold.

On receiving the measurement reports from the various UEs processor may identify a location of each UE based on the measurement reports received from the UEs. In some embodiments the coverage area of the serving BS may be divided into sectors and the location of each UE may be determined within a corresponding sector. The coverage area of the serving BS may be divided into different sectors to account for the signal transmission strength of the serving BS being different in different directions.

Processor may then determine a distance between one or more pairs of UEs based on the location of the UEs. In other words a distance between a first UE and each of the other UEs from which measurement reports were received is determined. Distances between a particular UE and all other UEs may be determined based on the locations of the UEs. Determining distances between pairs of UEs is explained in detail in conjunction with . On determining distances between possible pairs of UEs processor may define one or more penetration areas. A penetration area in this context may be formed by three or more measurement points as explained with reference to . If the distance between any two measurement points is below a predefined distance threshold distance then those measurement points may be considered as candidates for defining a penetration area. A penetration area may be a triangular or quadrangular shape area defined by three or more measurement points or UEs. The three or more measurement points may be selected to form a penetration area if the distance between each pair of UEs that make up the three or more measurement points is less than the predefined distance threshold. Defining penetration areas associated with the one or more neighboring BSs is explained in detail in conjunction with . In case there are no UEs in certain areas of the coverage areas and hence no measurement reports associated with such areas the signal penetration of neighboring BSs may be predicted from the measurement reports of UEs in close proximity to the areas where no UEs are present.

Upon determining the one or more penetration areas associated with the one or more neighboring BSs processor may determine signal penetration of the one or more neighboring BSs in these penetration areas. The signal penetration of the various neighbor BSs may be determined based on the RSRP values of the various neighbor BSs measured by the UEs that form the vertices of the one or more penetration areas. The signal penetration from the neighboring BSs into the coverage area of the serving BS may be determined by processor using a path loss method for each of the vertices that make up a particular penetration area. In other words the signal penetration of a particular neighboring BS may be determined using path loss method on the RSRP values of the particular neighboring BS measured by the UEs that make up the penetration area for which the signal penetration is to be determined.

Processor may be disposed in communication with one or more input output I O devices via I O interface . The I O interface may employ communication protocols methods such as without limitation audio analog digital monoaural RCA stereo IEEE 1394 serial bus universal serial bus USB infrared PS 2 BNC coaxial component composite digital visual interface DVI high definition multimedia interface HDMI RF antennas S Video VGA IEEE 802.n b g n x Bluetooth cellular e.g. code division multiple access CDMA high speed packet access HSPA global system for mobile communications GSM long term evolution LTE WiMax or the like etc.

Using the I O interface the computer system may communicate with one or more I O devices. For example the input device may be an antenna keyboard mouse joystick infrared remote control camera card reader fax machine dongle biometric reader microphone touch screen touchpad trackball sensor e.g. accelerometer light sensor GPS gyroscope proximity sensor or the like stylus scanner storage device transceiver video device source visors etc. Output device may be a printer fax machine video display e.g. cathode ray tube CRT liquid crystal display LCD light emitting diode LED plasma or the like audio speaker etc. In some embodiments a transceiver may be disposed in connection with the processor . The transceiver may facilitate various types of wireless transmission or reception. For example the transceiver may include an antenna operatively connected to a transceiver chip e.g. Texas Instruments WiLink WL1283 Broadcom BCM4750IUB8 Infineon Technologies X Gold 618 PMB9800 or the like providing IEEE 802.11a b g n Bluetooth FM global positioning system GPS 2G 3G HSDPA HSUPA communications etc.

In some embodiments the processor may be disposed in communication with a communication network via a network interface . The network interface may communicate with the communication network . The network interface may employ connection protocols including without limitation direct connect Ethernet e.g. twisted pair 10 100 1000 Base T transmission control protocol internet protocol TCP IP token ring IEEE 802.11a b g n x etc. The communication network may include without limitation a direct interconnection local area network LAN wide area network WAN wireless network e.g. using Wireless Application Protocol the Internet etc. Using the network interface and the communication network the computer system may communicate with devices and . These devices may include without limitation personal computer s server s fax machines printers scanners various mobile devices such as cellular telephones smartphones e.g. Apple iPhone Blackberry Android based phones etc. tablet computers eBook readers Amazon Kindle Nook etc. laptop computers notebooks gaming consoles Microsoft Xbox Nintendo DS Sony PlayStation etc. or the like. In some embodiments the computer system may itself embody one or more of these devices.

In some embodiments the processor may be disposed in communication with one or more memory devices e.g. RAM ROM etc. via a storage interface . The storage interface may connect to memory devices including without limitation memory drives removable disc drives etc. employing connection protocols such as serial advanced technology attachment SATA integrated drive electronics IDE IEEE 1394 universal serial bus USB fiber channel small computer systems interface SCSI etc. The memory drives may further include a drum magnetic disc drive magneto optical drive optical drive redundant array of independent discs RAID solid state memory devices solid state drives etc.

The memory devices may store a collection of program or database components including without limitation an operating system user interface application web browser mail server mail client user application data e.g. any data variables or data records discussed in this disclosure etc. The operating system may facilitate resource management and operation of the computer system . Examples of operating systems include without limitation Apple Macintosh OS X Unix Unix like system distributions e.g. Berkeley Software Distribution BSD FreeBSD NetBSD OpenBSD etc. Linux distributions e.g. Red Hat Ubuntu Kubuntu etc. IBM OS 2 Microsoft Windows XP Vista 7 8 etc. Apple iOS Google Android Blackberry OS or the like. User interface may facilitate display execution interaction manipulation or operation of program components through textual or graphical facilities. For example user interfaces may provide computer interaction interface elements on a display system operatively connected to the computer system such as cursors icons check boxes menus scrollers windows widgets etc. Graphical user interfaces GUIs may be employed including without limitation Apple Macintosh operating systems Aqua IBM OS 2 Microsoft Windows e.g. Aero Metro etc. Unix X Windows web interface libraries e.g. ActiveX Java Javascript AJAX HTML Adobe Flash etc. or the like.

In some embodiments the computer system may implement a web browser stored program component. The web browser may be a hypertext viewing application such as Microsoft Internet Explorer Google Chrome Mozilla Firefox Apple Safari etc. Secure web browsing may be provided using HTTPS secure hypertext transport protocol secure sockets layer SSL Transport Layer Security TLS etc. Web browsers may utilize facilities such as AJAX DHTML Adobe Flash JavaScript Java application programming interfaces APIs etc. In some embodiments the computer system may implement a mail server stored program component. The mail server may be an Internet mail server such as Microsoft Exchange or the like. The mail server may utilize facilities such as ASP ActiveX ANSI C C Microsoft .NET CGI scripts Java JavaScript PERL PHP Python WebObjects etc. The mail server may utilize communication protocols such as internet message access protocol IMAP messaging application programming interface MAPI Microsoft Exchange post office protocol POP simple mail transfer protocol SMTP or the like. In some embodiments the computer system may implement a mail client stored program component. The mail client may be a mail viewing application such as Apple Mail Microsoft Entourage Microsoft Outlook Mozilla Thunderbird etc.

In some embodiments computer system may store user application data such as the data variables records etc. as described in this disclosure. Such databases may be implemented as fault tolerant relational scalable secure databases such as Oracle or Sybase. Alternatively such databases may be implemented using standardized data structures such as an array hash linked list struct structured text file e.g. XML table or as object oriented databases e.g. using ObjectStore Poet Zope etc. . Such databases may be consolidated or distributed sometimes among the various computer systems discussed above in this disclosure. It is to be understood that the structure and operation of the any computer or database component may be combined consolidated or distributed in any working combination.

The specification has described a method and system for determining signal penetration of one or more neighbor base stations. The illustrated steps are set out to explain the exemplary embodiments shown and it should be anticipated that ongoing technological development will change the manner in which particular functions are performed. These examples are presented herein for purposes of illustration and not limitation. Further the boundaries of the functional building blocks have been arbitrarily defined herein for the convenience of the description. Alternative boundaries can be defined so long as the specified functions and relationships thereof are appropriately performed. Alternatives including equivalents extensions variations deviations etc. of those described herein will be apparent to persons skilled in the relevant art s based on the teachings contained herein. Such alternatives fall within the scope and spirit of the disclosed embodiments.

Furthermore one or more computer readable storage media may be utilized in implementing embodiments consistent with the present disclosure. A computer readable storage medium refers to any type of physical memory on which information or data readable by a processor may be stored. Thus a computer readable storage medium may store instructions for execution by one or more processors including instructions for causing the processor s to perform steps or stages consistent with the embodiments described herein. The term computer readable medium should be understood to include tangible items and exclude carrier waves and transient signals i.e. be non transitory. Examples include random access memory RAM read only memory ROM volatile memory nonvolatile memory hard drives CD ROMs DVDs flash drives disks and any other known physical storage media.

It is intended that the disclosure and examples be considered as exemplary only with a true scope and spirit of disclosed embodiments being indicated by the following claims.

