---

title: Conformity analysis system for analyzing conformity to restrictions on the use of a wireless communication device
abstract: A wireless communication device displays an icon for an application and stores a data restriction for the application. The wireless communication device receives a user selection of the icon and receives wireless data for the application. The wireless communication device compares an amount of the received wireless data for the application to the data restriction for the application to determine a data conformity level for the application. The wireless communication device translates the data conformity level for the application to a color. The wireless communication device displays the icon for the application surrounded by the color to indicate the data conformity level of the application.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09531887&OS=09531887&RS=09531887
owner: Sprint Communications Company L.P.
number: 09531887
owner_city: Overland Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150731
---
This patent application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 978 689 that was filed on Dec. 27 2010 and is entitled CONFORMITY ANALYSIS SYSTEM FOR ANALYZING CONFORMITY TO RESTRICTIONS ON THE USE OF A WIRELESS COMMUNICATION DEVICE. U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 978 689 is hereby incorporated by reference into this patent application.

The increased popularity and widespread use of mobile applications has created many challenges to the provisioning and delivery of wireless communication services. While mechanisms are in place to control access to the finite resources of most wireless networks the relative unfamiliarity of most users with the impact of applications on network performance and service costs may lead to degraded service levels and unforeseen billing charges.

For example it is common for a user to launch an application on a mobile phone only to have that application run in the background nearly perpetually. The application may not only require network resources to operate such as wireless bandwidth between the mobile phone and a base station but it may also over use resources of the phone itself such as battery life. Multiplied many times over across many phones network performance in a wide area can degrade leading to customer complaints and dissatisfaction.

In the past a wide variety of pricing plans have been used to control access to network resources. But with the wide variety of applications available pre installed on modern phones and available via applications stores online it is difficult for a user to understand the potential impact of any particular application on both the performance of the network and the performance of his own phone. This is made even more difficult by the fact that network conditions vary and thus so will the impact of an application. In addition the performance of the application itself may degrade based on network conditions at any given time.

Regardless of performance issues it is also difficult for a user to understand the cost implications of running an application. For instance in a case where a user subscribes to a pricing plan that discourages data usage during peak periods the user may not be aware of the relative data intensity of a given application relative to any others. This can lead to unexpected charges for exceeding data limits and ultimately to dissatisfied customers.

A wireless communication device displays an icon for an application and stores a data restriction for the application. The wireless communication device receives a user selection of the icon and receives wireless data for the application. The wireless communication device compares an amount of the received wireless data for the application to the data restriction for the application to determine a data conformity level for the application. The wireless communication device translates the data conformity level for the application to a color. The wireless communication device displays the icon for the application surrounded by the color to indicate the data conformity level of the application.

The following description and associated figures teach the best mode of the invention. For the purpose of teaching inventive principles some conventional aspects of the best mode may be simplified or omitted. The following claims specify the scope of the invention. Note that some aspects of the best mode may not fall within the scope of the invention as specified by the claims. Thus those skilled in the art will appreciate variations from the best mode that fall within the scope of the invention. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the features described below can be combined in various ways to form multiple variations of the invention. As a result the invention is not limited to the specific examples described below but only by the claims and their equivalents.

In operation wireless device is capable of running applications . Applications may include email clients text messaging clients web browsers social networking apps or any other type of application capable of running on a wireless device. Some or all of applications may use resources of wireless network to access the communication services provided by wireless network . For example a messaging application uses text messaging resources of wireless network a phone application uses voice call resources of wireless network and a web browser uses data resources of wireless network . As additional wireless devices use the resources of wireless network the network performance of wireless network may degrade which can lead to an unsatisfactory user experience on wireless device .

Furthermore in an effort to control wireless network resource usage a variety of pricing plans may be employed for connecting wireless devices such as wireless device . For example a user of wireless device may have subscribed to a service plan for wireless device that charges more for resources used during peak hours or limits the amount of resources that can be used by wireless device during peak hours. These pricing plan constraints along with the network congestion issues discussed above and other possible constraints on the use of a wireless device may effectively restrict the use of the various resources of wireless network by wireless device .

Traditionally applications do not account for restrictions on the use of wireless network resources by wireless device . Likewise a user may not be aware of the resource usage by a particular application and how that resource usage will be effected by any restrictions on the use of wireless device in regards to the resources of wireless network . Therefore the operation of the applications may violate the restrictions causing an unsatisfactory user experience such as poor performance or cost overages.

The restrictions on the use of wireless device may include restrictions on a service plan cost to a user of wireless network for the use of network resources a cost to the operator of wireless network for the use of network resources a service plan allotment of resources to wireless device an amount of resources currently available on wireless network for use by wireless device or anything else that may restrict the use of wireless network resources by wireless device . For example a service plan subscribed to by a user of wireless device may charge different amounts of money for use of wireless network resources during different times or when wireless device is roaming. In another example the service plan may allow for a limited amount of resources to be used by wireless device and may either cut of the resource usage or charge more to the user if that limited amount of resource usage is exceeded. Similarly a restriction may exist based on the currently available resource capacity of wireless network .

The restrictions may be identified by querying one or more systems on wireless network may be stored locally in a memory of wireless device may be indicated by a user may be ascertained via test actions by wireless device or any other way that a wireless device may obtain restriction information. For example wireless device may query a billing system for service plan cost or resource amount restrictions on wireless device . Likewise wireless device may query a system on wireless network to obtain information about current network resource availability on wireless network . For example wireless network may have a limited amount of bandwidth available for use by wireless device due to high network load. Alternatively wireless device may have service plan information stored locally in a memory and may transfer test messages to test network resource availability.

Additionally wireless device identifies applications of applications available to wireless device that use resources of wireless network step . In other words applications may not all use resources of wireless network when executing. For example most calculator applications do not require network resources in order to function. Thus for the purposes of the operation described in application does not use network resources. Consequently wireless device identifies that applications are applications that use resources of wireless network . Wireless device may identify applications that use resources of wireless network by monitoring resource use of an executing application by receiving resource usage information from each application by recognizing usage information from past executions of an application by querying a remote system for resource usage information or by any other way that a wireless device may determine network usage information.

Wireless device can then determine a measure of conformity by the applications to the restrictions on the use of the wireless communication device step . Therefore since wireless device identified applications as using resources of wireless network wireless device compares the resources required by each of applications to the restrictions on the use of wireless device . The measure of conformity is created based on this comparison. Thus the measure will indicate that an application conforms better to the restrictions if the resource usage of the application is further away from the limits of the restriction.

For example if application requires 100 kbps of bandwidth and a restriction limits wireless device to using 900 kbps of bandwidth then application will have a better conformity measure than application if application requires 800 kbps of bandwidth. Similarly application would be given a poor measure of conformity if application requires more bandwidth than the 900 kbps allowed by the restriction.

In another example if application is a text messaging application and a restriction allows only 500 text messages per month before charging extra to the user then the measure of conformity for application may get worse as application approaches or exceeds the 500 text message limit.

The measure of conformity may be determined based on whether the network resource usage of an individual application by itself conforms to the restrictions on the use of wireless device . The measure of conformity may also be determined in relation to other applications available to wireless device . For example the measure of conformity may be determined in relation to applications that are currently executing on wireless device . Thus while the resource usage of an application by itself may conform to the restrictions if the resource usage of the application is combined with the resource usage of applications already executing on wireless device then wireless device as a whole would not be conforming to the restrictions on wireless device . Likewise a user may select multiple available applications and wireless device determines the measure of conformity for each application based on how well the group of applications would conform to the restrictions on wireless device .

After determining the measure of conformity for the applications wireless device generates an instruction to display to a user an indication of the measure of conformity by the applications to the restrictions on the use of wireless device step . The measure of conformity may be instructed to be displayed in a variety of ways. For example applications may be listed in order of conformity an indicator may be displayed next to the displayed icon of applications the icon for applications may be modified to represent the measure of conformity applications may be sorted into groups based on the measures of conformity or any other way to inform a user of a measure of conformity for an application. In some examples application may also be included as an application with a high measure of conformity since application does not use any network resources.

Advantageously when wireless device displays the measure of conformity to a user the user will be able to make a decision about whether to use the application. For example if the user sees a display indication that a particular app does not conform to the restrictions on wireless device then the user may choose not to use that application. Alternatively in some embodiments the execution of those applications with poor measures of conformity may be prevented by wireless device .

The process set forth above may repeat periodically in order to keep the displayed measures of conformity updated based on current restrictions on the use of wireless device . Alternatively the process may repeat whenever a user wakes wireless device from a stand by mode in order to keep the displayed measures of conformity updated based on current restrictions on the use of wireless device .

In some embodiments wireless device may determine a measure of conformity for each restriction rather than a single overall measure of conformity. Furthermore the instruction to display the measure of conformity may include these restriction specific measures of conformity. Therefore if a user is displayed more specific measures of conformity then the user may be able to make a more informed decision about whether to use a particular application. For example if there is a poor measure of conformity for an application to a restriction based on network data congestion then the user may still decide to use the application despite the risk of poor data performance. Alternatively if there is a poor measure of conformity for an application to a restriction based on high data plan cost for the user then the user may choose to use the application at a different time when the data plan cost for the user is lower. The more specific measures of conformity may be displayed in a sub menu of the overall measure of conformity or may be displayed along with the overall measure of conformity depending on how the measure of conformity is displayed to the user.

Similarly for restrictions that vary based on time such as with a service plan that provides different costs for peak and off peak usage wireless device may determine a measure of conformity for each time period of the restriction. The instruction to display the measure of conformity may also include these time dependent measures. Therefore if a user is displayed the time dependent measures of conformity then the user may be able to make a more informed decision about when to use a particular application.

It should be understood that the process described for could be performed in a system or multiple systems in wireless network . For example a conformity system in wireless network may identify the applications available to wireless device along with any restrictions on the use of wireless device . The conformity system then determines a measure of conformity for the applications that use network resources and transfers a display instruction to wireless device indicating that wireless device should display the measures of conformity.

Wireless device then determines a measure of conformity by applications and to the restrictions on the use of wireless device step . Since applications and are executing on wireless device wireless device determines whether the resources that each of applications and are presently using conforms to the restrictions on wireless device .

If the measure of conformity does not satisfy a criteria wireless device prevents the operation of application and or step . The criteria may be a threshold value for the measure of conformity. If the measure of conformity crosses the threshold then the operation of application and or is prevented. Preventing the operation of application and or may include terminating the execution of application and or or preventing application and or from using the resources of wireless network .

In some embodiments wireless device may display a notification to a user of wireless device that application and or has been prevented from operating. Similarly in some embodiments wireless device may query the user for an indication about whether application and or should be prevented from operating. In those embodiments the user may look at a display of restriction specific measures of conformity in order to make an informed decision about whether the user desires application and or to be prevented from operating.

Referring back to wireless communication device comprises Radio Frequency RF communication circuitry and an antenna. The RF communication circuitry typically includes an amplifier filter modulator and signal processing circuitry. Wireless communication device may also include a user interface memory device software processing circuitry or some other communication components. Wireless communication device may be a telephone computer e book mobile Internet appliance wireless network interface card media player game console or some other wireless communication apparatus including combinations thereof.

Wireless communication network comprises network elements that provide wireless devices with wireless communication access to packet communication services. Wireless network may comprise switches wireless access nodes Internet routers network gateways application servers computer systems communication links or some other type of communication equipment including combinations thereof.

Wireless link uses the air or space as the transport media. Wireless link may use various protocols such as Code Division Multiple Access CDMA Evolution Data Only EVDO Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WIMAX Global System for Mobile Communication GSM Long Term Evolution LTE Wireless Fidelity WIFI High Speed Packet Access HSPA or some other wireless communication format.

Communication links and use metal glass air space or some other material as the transport media. Communication links and could use various communication protocols such as Time Division Multiplex TDM Internet Protocol IP Ethernet communication signaling CDMA EVDO WIMAX GSM LTE WIFI HSPA or some other communication format including combinations thereof. Communication links and could be direct links or may include intermediate networks systems or devices.

Additionally wireless device identifies applications available to wireless device that use resources of wireless network when executing step . The available applications need not be executing on wireless device and include installed applications remote applications such as cloud based applications and applications that can be installed on wireless device such as from an application store. Wireless device further identifies a subset of the available applications consisting of those available applications that are presently executing on wireless device or are otherwise executing as a remote application and are using resources of wireless network step .

Wireless device then determines a measure of conformity for each of the identified applications step . For the subset of available applications that are currently executing on wireless device the actual wireless network resource usage of the application is used to determine whether the application conforms to the restrictions on the use of wireless device . For example if an application is currently executing on wireless device and exchanging data packets with application server over wireless network and Internet then that application is using the data service resources of wireless network . Consequently wireless device compares the actual data usage by the application to any data usage restrictions on wireless device .

For the other available applications wireless device uses a projected wireless network resource usage to determine whether the application will conform to the restrictions on the use of wireless device when executed. The projected usage may be determined from past application resource usage information from the application indicating resource usage statistics or any other way by which wireless device may obtain or derive a projected resource usage.

After determining the measures of conformity for the available applications wireless device generates an instruction to display the measure of conformity for each application to a user step . Additionally wireless device generates an instruction to display a request to terminate any non conforming application that is currently executing on wireless device step .

In response to the instructions display generates a visual that informs the user about the measure of conformity for each application and prompts the user to terminate any non conforming applications step . The visual may take many forms but depict specific examples.

The icons for video application radio application and game application are each surrounded by a red color. Thus the applications have a poor measure of conformity. When executing each of these applications use large amounts of data bandwidth on a wireless network. In this example there is a restriction that limits data bandwidth such as a high cost for bandwidth or high network congestion that is not conformed to by video application radio application and game application .

Similarly the icons for email application and web browser are surrounded by yellow. Thus these applications are merely approaching non conformity with the restrictions on the use of the wireless device. Continuing the data bandwidth restriction example from above email application and web browser do not use as much data bandwidth when executing as those applications surrounded by red.

Likewise the icons for social networking application and calendar application are surrounded by green. In this example the green indicates that the data usage of these two applications conforms well to the data bandwidth restrictions on the use of the wireless device. Additionally while not shown on display calculator application and camera application may also be surrounded by green since the applications do not use network resources.

Based on the three colors surrounding the application icons shown on display a user may make a more informed decision about whether to use a particular application. Consistent with display the user may want to hold off using the applications surrounded by red and think more carefully before using the applications surrounded in yellow.

In response to the user request for the specific measures of conformity display shows that the data plan measure of conformity is red and the network congestion measure of conformity is yellow. This information is shown as a pop up notification on display but may take other forms. The data plan measure of conformity may be red because the data service plan for the user provides that data service is very expensive at the present time. The network congestion measure of conformity is yellow because the wireless network is experiencing a higher level of congestion but not so high as to require a red measure of conformity.

The user can then use this information to make a more informed decision about whether the user would like to execute the application. For example the user may decide that the user is willing to pay the extra data plan cost of using video application at this time and is willing to deal with any possible problems regarding the operation of video application due to the yellow rated network congestion.

If the user selects YES then radio application is terminated so that radio application no longer uses network resources. If the user selects NO then radio application will continue to run despite the restriction violation. If the user selects INFO then the user may be provided with specific measures of conformity for audio application similar to that shown in for video application . The user can then make a more informed decision about whether the user wants radio application to terminate.

In operation restriction module identifies restrictions on the use of a wireless communication device having applications available to the wireless communication device. Application identification module identifies a first application of the applications available to the wireless communication device that uses resources of a wireless communication network. Conformity determination module determines a first measure of conformity by the first application to the restrictions on the use of the wireless communication device. Display instruction module generates an instruction to display to a user an indication of the first measure of conformity by the first application to the restrictions on the use of the wireless communication device.

Wireless communication interface comprises RF communication circuitry and an antenna. The RF communication circuitry typically includes an amplifier filter RF modulator and signal processing circuitry. Wireless communication interface may also include a memory device software processing circuitry or some other communication device. Wireless communication interface may use various protocols such as CDMA EVDO WIMAX GSM LTE WIFI HSPA or some other wireless communication format.

User interface comprises components that interact with a user to receive user inputs and to present media and or information. User interface may include a speaker microphone buttons lights display screen touch screen touch pad scroll wheel communication port or some other user input output apparatus including combinations thereof.

Processing circuitry comprises microprocessor and other circuitry that retrieves and executes operating software from memory device . Memory device comprises a non transitory storage medium such as a disk drive flash drive data storage circuitry or some other memory apparatus. Processing circuitry is typically mounted on a circuit board that may also hold memory device and portions of communication interface and user interface . Operating software comprises computer programs firmware or some other form of machine readable processing instructions. Operating software includes restriction software module application identification software module conformity determination software module and display instruction software module . Operating software may also include an operating system utilities drivers network interfaces applications or some other type of software. When executed by processing circuitry operating software directs processing system to operate wireless communication device as described herein.

In particular restriction module of operating software directs processing system to identify restrictions on the use of wireless communication device having applications available to wireless communication device . Application identification module directs processing system to identify a first application of the applications available to wireless communication device that uses resources of a wireless communication network. Conformity determination module directs processing system to determine a first measure of conformity by the first application to the restrictions on the use of wireless communication device . Display instruction module directs processing system to generate an instruction to display to a user an indication of the first measure of conformity by the first application to the restrictions on the use of wireless communication device .

The above description and associated figures teach the best mode of the invention. The following claims specify the scope of the invention. Note that some aspects of the best mode may not fall within the scope of the invention as specified by the claims. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the features described above can be combined in various ways to form multiple variations of the invention. As a result the invention is not limited to the specific embodiments described above but only by the following claims and their equivalents.

