---

title: Method to treat diabetes utilizing a gastrointestinal microbiome modulating composition
abstract: Compositions and methods for treating diabetes are presented herein. In particular, the present disclosure teaches compositions and methods for treating diabetes utilizing a gastrointestinal microbiome modulating composition.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09040101&OS=09040101&RS=09040101
owner: MicroBiome Therapeutics LLC.
number: 09040101
owner_city: Broomfield
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150108
---
The present Application is a Continuation Application which claims priority to U.S. application Ser. No. 14 238 960 filed on Feb. 14 2014 winch is a U.S. National Stage Application pursuant to 35 U.S.C. 371 of International Application No. PCT US2012 051408 filed on Aug. 17 2012 which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 524 524 filed on Aug. 17 2011 each of which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entireties.

The present invention relates to weigh control and metabolic fitness. More particularly the present invention relates to compositions and methods for increasing desirable microbiota in the human gut and reducing therein undesirable microbiota to achieve a healthy glucose regulation metabolic fitness inclusive intestinal health and a healthy body weight.

During the past 5 years a large international effort called the Human Microbiome Project HMP by the National Institutes of Health and known more broadly as the International Human Microbiome Consortium IHMC is aimed at characterizing the microbes living in and on our bodies see http hmpdace.org data browser.php . In the large intestine an estimated 100 trillion microorganisms reside that appear to play essential roles in metabolizing food drugs and dietary supplements that are not absorbed by the upper gastrointestinal GI tract. In addition some of those microorganisms manufacture essential nutrients and vitamins necessary to sustain health. Such microbial interactions in the intestinal environment exert critical roles in signaling metabolic behavior and immune regulatory systems of the human host.

The first GI microbiomes to be partially characterized are those obtained in the feces of obese and lean individuals 1 2 . Microbiota of the Firmicutes phylum are in abundance in the feces of obese individuals when compared to that of lean volunteers. Microbiota of the other major division Bacteroidetes are more abundant than those of Firmicutes division in lean individuals. Thus during metabolic diseases such as obesity and diabetes an imbalance between these 2 dominant groups of bacteria reflecting a wealth of Firmuetes species to Bacteroidetes species B F ratio is one characteristic of individuals with an unhealthy body mass. These findings are confirmed in obese and lean mice 3 . Further sterile mice can be inoculated with microbiomes obtained from human feces of either obese or lean individuals. When fed a standard mouse chow they either become obese or remain lean depending on the source of their GI microbiota transplant 4 . Mice transplanted with human GI microbiota will become obese when fed a chow rich in simple sugars and fat after several week. The B F ratio of those mice increased when the diet is switched to one low in both fat and sugar but rich in plain polysaccharides 5 6 .

Microbiota belonging to the Bacteriodetes phylum are specialists at transporting and metabolizing carbohydrates 7 . They appear to forage on any available carbohydrate in their environment. Most sugars and starches however are metabolized by the host and are absorbed by the upper GI. Indigestible by the host carbohydrates do make it to the lower GI where they are consumed by members of the Bacteriodetes. The end products of this process are small chain fatty acids SCFAs that have health benefits for the host. Many of these indigestible carbohydrates are plant polysaccharides or more commonly called fiber or resistant starch and are classified as prebiotics 8 . Microbiomes characterized in the feces of children maintained on a high fiber diet have a greater B F ratio than those analyzed from feces of children consuming a typical European diet 9 .

US20050239706 Modulation of fiaf and the gastrointestinal microbiota as a means to control energy storage in a subject

US20090143414 Novel Composition to Improve Gut Health and Animal Performance and Methods of Making the Same

US20100048595 USE OF ARCHAEA TO MODULATE THE NUTRIENT HARVESTING FUNCTIONS OF THE GASTROINTESTINAL MICROBIOTA

US20100172874 GUT MICROBIOME AS A BIOMARKER AND THERAPEUTIC TARGET FOR TREATING OBESITY OR AN OBESITY RELATED DISORDER

US20110034407 USE OF SPHINGOMYELIN AND NON DIGESTIBLE CARBOHYDRATES FOR IMPROVING INTESTINAL MICROBIOTA

US20050239706 MODULATION OF FIAF AND THE GASTROINTESTINAL MICROBIOTA AS A MEANS TO CONTROL ENERGY STORAGE IN A SUBJECT

US20110280840 COMPOSITIONS AND METHODS FOR TREATING OBESITY AND RELATED DISORDERS BY CHARACTERIZING AND RESTORING MAMMALIAN BACTERIAL MICROBIOTA

US20120058094 COMPOSITIONS AND METHODS FOR TREATING OBESITY AND RELATED DISORDERS BY CHARACTERIZING AND RESTORING MAMMALIAN BACTERIAL MICROBIOTA

WO 2012 024638A2 COMPOSITIONS AND METHODS FOR TREATING OBESITY AND RELATED DISORDERS BY CHARACTERIZING AND RESTORING MAMMALIAN BACTERIAL MICROBIOTA

WO 2011 103123A2 REDUCING SHORT CHAIN FATTY ACIDS AND ENERGY UPTAKE IN OBESE HUMANS BY MANAGING THEIR INTESTINAL MICROBIAL COMMUNITIES

WO 2011 022660A1 METHODS OF DIAGNOSING AND TREATING MICROBIOME ASSOCIATED DISEASE USING INTERACTION NETWORK PARAMETERS

WO 2008 076696A2 THE GUT MICROBIOME AS A BIOMARKER AND THERAPEUTIC TARGET FOR TREATING OBESITY OR AN OBESITY RELATED DISORDER

WO 2008 076006A3 THE GUT MICROBIOME AS A BIOMARKER AND THERAPEUTIC TARGET FOR TREATING OBESITY OR AN OBESITY RELATED DISORDER

EP2102350A2 THE GUT MICROBIOME AS A BIOMARKER AND THERAPEUTIC TARGET FOR TREATING OBESITY OR AN OBESITY RELATED DISORDER

Also incorporated herein by reference are the following references which are referenced above and below 

The present invention includes a composition and use of a formulation to increase the ratio of gastrointestinal microbiota in phylum Bacteroidetes to microbiota of Firmicutes phylum.

One aspect of the present invention is to include an indigestible carbohydrate such as inulin oligofructoses fructo oligosaccharides lactulose galcto oligosaccharides xylo oligosaccharides resistant starches in the formula. In addition to offering food for species of Bacteriodetes and selecting for their growth production of short chain fatty acids SCFAs in the colon will suppress pathogenic bacteria and viruses from invading and colonizing the GI tract partially inhibit hepatic cholesterol biosynthesis serve as nutrients for colonocytes reduce colon pH increase mineral absorption and serve as ligands to stimulate release of peptide YY PYY and glucagon like peptide 1 GLP 1 into the blood. PYY and GLP 1 are hormones produced and released from the colon into the blood. PYY signals satiety. GLP 1 stimulates the glucose sensing ability of the insulin secreting cell prevents that cell from apoptosis stimulates proliferation of those pancreatic beta cells and inhibits gastric emptying. GLP 1 also stimulates satiety but this may be due to its important role in decreasing gastric emptying.

Ghrelin is a hormone secreted by the stomach that stimulates appetite. Ghrelin is unique because it must be acylated with a medium chain fatty acid MCFA on the 3rd residue to bind and trigger its receptor GHS R1a 10 . Ghrelin comprised with octanoic C 8 or decanoic C 10 MCFAs are the most common forms of active ghrelin 10 . There are also circulating carboxylesterases that cleave the acyl bond linking the fatty acid to the ghrelin backbone and render ghrelin inactive 11 with respect to appetite and nutrient consumption but may be beneficial for the treatment of T2DM 12 . The acylating enzyme in the stomach cell that synthesizes ghrelin was identified about 3 years ago 13 14 and is now a drug target for several groups. The enzyme termed GOAT ghrelin O acyltransferase has a high affinity for MCFAs but can acetylate ghrelin with fatty acids of different lengths. Not only does GOAT prefer MCFAs but ghrelin that is acylated with a MCFA is much more potent than ghrelin forced to be synthesized with either a small or long chain fatty acid 15 . Interestingly levels of circulating medium chain fatty acids at any time point are relatively low when compared to long chain fatty acids. This is primarily a result of diet. Modern diets and most foods are rich in long chain fatty acids. MCFAs are abundant in coconut oil and human breast milk. Short chain fatty acids SCFAs are also rarely in the food chain they can be found in small quantities in butter and coconut. However they are produced in large quantities by the microflora in the colon as a byproduct of polysaccharide consumption by the microbiota of the Bacteriodetes division. Recent evidence indicates that GOAT can use a SCFA to acylate ghrelin rendering the hormone inactive at its receptor 16 .

Thus another novel aspect of the present invention is a formula designed to significantly enhance production or SCFAs by microbiota to serve as substrates for GOAT render an inactive ghrelin and consequently decrease appetite.

While aspects of the present invention are aimed at increasing the population of colonic microbiota that garners carbohydrates there is the possibility of those microorganisms redirecting their carbohydrate harvesting activities from dietary to host polysaccharides according to nutrient availability 7 . The colon mucus layer is comprises of mucins which are glycoproteins that have O linked oligosaccharides or O glycans which account for up to 80 of the mass of mucin 17 . This mucus layer covers the gastrointestinal epithelium where it provides a protective layer from the rich intestinal microbiome as well as any pathogens. Such engogenous source of glycans in the microbiome habitat could offer alternative nutrients. However when dietary glycans are present it appears that harvesting energy from the diet is preferred 7 .

Recently evidence that bile salts are bacteriostatic to cecal microbiota was presented 24 . Moreover the data indicate that microbiota of the Bacteroidetes phylum are most sensitive to bile salts. Secretion of bile salts into the intestinal tract is stimulated by fat ingestion. Thus ingestion of fat containing food increases bile secretion which in turn decreases the numbers of Bacteriodetes microbiota. Viscous beta glucan encapsulates or sequesters bile acids 25 and thus has the ability to preserve members of the Bacteroidetes even when fat is ingested.

Thus an important aspect of the present invention includes dietary glycans. Most are indigestible carbohydrates. Since glycans are also in abundance in yeast walls one source of dietary glycans is from yeast. Other sources include dietary beta glucan. Beta glucan is a natural polysaccharide that can be isolated from oat barley and wheat most commonly but also from baker s yeast certain fungi mushrooms and bacteria. Addition of beta glucan is an important component of the present invention to maintain the mucosa protective barrier as well as to offer nutrients to microbiota that prefer to forage on carbohydrates and would increase the B F ratio.

Another means to alter an imbalance between microbiota belonging to Bacteroidetes and Firmicutes phyla is to suppress the growth of members of one division. Such bacteriostatic or bactericidal actions for members of Firmicutes division are reported for a number of phenolic compounds that are present in large quantities in berries and other fruits 18 . Anthocyanins are the predominating group of phenolic compounds present in berries and are especially abundant 18 . A large proportion of dietary polyphenolics remain unabsorbed in the gut lumen where they become concentrated in the ileum and colon. Up to 85 of blueberry anthocyanins enter the colon 19 and appear to exert more growth suppressing effects on members of the Firmicutes division than the Bacteroidetes division 20 21 . Although blueberry powder blueberry pomace or blueberry extract containing such polyphenolics is preferred the present invention preferably includes any fruit or berry ingredient preparation containing similar phenolics such as those listed in Reference 18. The three preferred classes of ingredients fermentable polysaccharides beta glucans and berry extracts can be prepared in any type of edible product such as powder to mix in liquid a bar smoothie yogurt shake etc. The blend may also be prepared in a capsule or compressed into a tablet. Preferably the formulation is to be ingested twice per day in between the first and second meals as well as between the second and third meals.

It is preferred that each dose of the formulation contain at least about 4 g of indigestible polysaccharide at least about 2 g beta glucan and at least about 4 g of berry powder extract the equivalent of 2 cups 16 ounces or 0.47 liters whole blueberries containing about 800 mg of total phenolics. 100 mg of anthocyanins and 6900 moles TE antioxidant activity . It is preferred that the dose be administered twice per day within 1 hour prior to meal 1 or within 1 hour prior to meal 2 as well as within 1 hour prior to meal 3. These are our best estimates but the formulation may change.

Ranges of ingredients preferably include about 2 120 mg kg of body weight of indigestible polysaccharide about 2 80 mg kg of body weight of beta glucan and about 2 120 mg kg of body weight of blueberry powdered extract or any fruit or berry ingredient preparation containing similar phenolics such as those listed in Reference 18. Ranges of these ingredients more preferably include about 10 80 mg kg of body weight of indigestible polysaccharide about 5 50 mg kg of body weight of beta glucan and about 10 80 mg kg of body weight of blueberry powder or any fruit or berry ingredient preparation containing similar phenolics such as those listed in Reference 18. Ranges of these ingredients most preferably include about 20 60 mg kg of body weight of indigestible polysaccharide that is a fermentable fiber or resistant starch about 10 30 mg kg of body weight of beta glucan and about 20 60 320 mg kg of body weight of blueberry powdered extract or any fruit or berry ingredient preparation containing similar phenolics such as those listed in Reference 18. One of these ingredients in a formulation is preferable to none any two are preferable to only one and most preferably all three are present in a formulation of the present invention that contains less than 70 usable Calories Cal or keal 293 Kilojoules . The calorie or joule content of the formulation can be calculated from derived constants determined for macronutrients in the formula. However the majority of ingredients in the formula is not digested and absorbed and thus is not assimilated or utilized for energy in the human body. A usable calorie or joule is only the calorie or joule that is assimilated or utilized for energy in the human body.

A preferred indigestible carbohydrate is inulin and can be found naturally in banana asparagus garlic onions and wheat flour at low levels. To consume a sufficient quantity to achieve levels in the most preferred dose is possible but that would contribute significant usable calories or joules to the daily caloric intake of individuals who already have an unhealthy weight see Table below because the foods also contains usable calories or joules. Inulin content of raw Jerusalem artichoke chicory root and agave is high. Ingestion of a purified preparation of inulin contributes significantly less usable calories or joules to daily caloric intake than does ingestion of a vegetable containing inulin see Table 1 . To obtain the desired dose of inulin by eating the more common vegetable would contribute about 40 times the calories or joules that purified inulin contributes.

Beta glucan can be found naturally in oats barley mushrooms and Baker s yeast. To consume a sufficient quantity of these foods to achieve levels in the most preferred dose is possible but that would contribute significant useable calories or joules to the daily caloric intake of individuals who already have an unhealthy weight see Table 2 because the foods also contains usable calories or joules.

Polyphenolics can be divided into major groups of anthocyanidins and flavonoids. They are found naturally in blueberry cranberry raspberry and strawberry. These berries contain different levels of anthocyanidins and flavonoids according to Reference 22 and the abbreviated table below. Blueberries contain the broadest spectrum of polyphenolic compounds. Further ingestion of the equivalent of 2 cups 16 ounces or 0.47 liters of fresh blueberries provides sufficient bioactive compounds to improve insulin sensitivity in insulin resistant patients as demonstrated in Reference 23.

To consume a sufficient quantity 2 cups 16 ounces or 0.47 liters to achieve levels in the most preferred dose of blueberry is possible but that would contribute significant useable calories or joules to the daily caloric intake of individuals who already have an unhealthy weight see Table 5 because the food also contains usable calories or joules especially sugar. Pomace is the solid remains of blueberry after pressing for juice and thus removes sugar and water when manufacturing berry juice. Pomace contains indigestible carbohydrate that accounts for 85 of calories or joules. Pomace can be extracted with solvents such as alcohol or water to remove other useable calories. Blueberry extracts of pomace contain less than 10 useable Calories 42 Kilojoules .

In some cases dosing may be once a day to initiate treatment and to acclimate the GI microbiome for up to 1 week and then switched to twice daily dosing. In other cases twice daily administration of half the optimal dose is desired such as in children or the elderly. In some cases optimal twice daily dosing may be changed to a daily dosing regimen to maintain the changes stimulated by twice daily dosing. In other cases the twice daily dosing may be switched to twice daily dosing of half the most preferred dose such as in children or adults who cannot tolerate preferred dosing.

The present invention can be used in combination with drugs. For example broad spectrum antibiotics prescribed for systemic infections are not completely absorbed by the upper GI system and make it to the microbiota environment. This will temporarily alter the GI microbiome and it may be desirable to ingest the formulation of the present invention during antibiotic therapy in preparation for a course of antibiotics or following such intervention. Specific antibiotics may target Gram positive or Gram negative bacteria. Treatment with a Gram positive antibiotic before during or following ingestion of the above combination of prebiotics of the present invention could improve the desired outcome. Because the formulation of the present invention is expected to increase GLP 1 levels it may be desirable to combine that intervention with a DPP IV dipeptidy peptidase type IV inhibitor such as Vildagliptin Sitagliptin or others in this class. This will greatly prolong the half life of GLP 1 released from the colon and the combination would be preferred over the DPP IV inhibitor alone or an injection of a GLP 1 peptide agonist such as Byetta. The present invention can also be combined with other diabetes interventions such as biguanides. An example includes metformin Glucophage Glucophage XR Riomet Fortamet and Glumetza . In fact combined use of the present invention with metformin may not only improve blood glucose regulation but will counter the diarrhea side effect often associated with metformin see Example 5 . This is a potentially important clinical observation. Metformin is recommended as the initial drug of choice for the treatment of type 2 diabetes 26 . Metformin has been reported to cause a 20 incidence of diarrhea in diabetic patients taking the drug compared to only 6 of diabetic patients not taking metformin 27 . In fact diarrhea with metformin is a sufficient problem that some diabetic patients cannot tolerate the drug. Since metformin has a good safety record causes an approximate 2 3 kg weight loss and is a low cost generic medication increasing the tolerance to metformin while increasing its efficacy using a safe food supplement could have beneficial public health consequences. The present invention may also be combined with alpha glucosidase inhibitors such as Precose acarbose and Glyset miglitol that are effective in controlling blood glucose but are poorly tolerated because of associated diarrhea. In addition some drugs such as atypical antipsychotics and insulin cause weight gain in some patients. The present invention could be combined with such drugs to combat the weight gain without intervening with antipsychotic efficacy.

The present invention can be used to treat other diseases and syndromes. Irritable bowel syndrome IBS is a disorder characterized by abdominal pain or discomfort and altered bowel habit chronic or recurrent diarrhea constipation or both either mixed or in alternation . IBS with constipation is sometimes referred to as IBS C or constipation predominant IBS. IBS with diarrhea is sometimes referred to as IBS D. The key symptom of IBS is abdominal pain or discomfort anywhere in the abdomen. It may change over time. The impact of IBS can range from mild inconvenience to severe debilitation. Persons with moderate to severe IBS must struggle with symptoms that often impair their physical emotional economic educational and social well being. The exact cause of IBS is not known. Treatments are available for IBS to help manage symptoms but none appear to address the etiology. Fecal microbiota of patients suffering with IBS have a 2 fold decrease in the ratio of the Bacteroidetes to Firmicutes when compared with healthy individuals 28 . Thus the present invention that stimulates an increase in the ratio of members of the Bacteroidetes phylum to the Firmicutes phylum should be an efficacious and safe therapeutic to treat IBS.

The present invention can be used in preparation for fecal transplant or fecal bacteriotherapy and its follow up. Fecal microbiota transplantation is the process of transplantation of fecal microbiota from a healthy individual into a recipient as a treatment for diseases such as infection by 29 or more recently type 2 diabetes 30 . Guidelines for both the donor and the recipient are being prepared and will likely indicate strategies for both the donor and the recipient. The use of the present invention in preparation of both subjects for the procedure and continued use by the recipient after transplantation will increase the probability of a successful outcome. The present invention can also be used in preparation for fecal banking. Such practice will permit a subject to prepare a specific fecal sample for banking until needed. This may occur in preparation of prolonged antibiotic surgery cancer chemotherapy and an unforeseen chronic illness.

The present invention can be used to treat ocular diseases. Recently it was demonstrated that the microbiota of a conventional raised laboratory mouse adversely alters the ocular lens 31 . The present invention is designed to cause a shift in the GI microbiome. Thus the invention will be useful in prevention of cataracts. Another eye syndrome is commonly called dry eye syndrome DES . Traditionally DES has been thought of as a deficiency of tears at the ocular surface. In recent years however investigators have shown that DES is much more complex than previously thought and that tear film dysfunction syndrome might more accurately describe the condition. Tear film dysfunction can be broken down into two basic etiologic classifications insufficient tear production or increased evaporation of tears from the eye surface 32 . The tear film is made up of lipid aqueous and mucin components. Individuals with dry eye syndrome can be deficient in any of these components and all appear to be related in part to healthy GI function. Thus the present invention will be useful in treating DES.

FORMULA A is made of 4.7 g dried blueberry pomace extract powder from Milne Fruit Products Prosser Wash. product no. FG20155 9.22 g OatWell 22 beta glucan from CreaNutrition Sweden 4.4 g agave inulin Inufib from The Iidea Company Tlaquepaque Jal. Mexico with inactive ingredients preferably added for flavor mouth feel texture and mixing including 8.5 g erythritol 0.5 g soy protein 0.4 g xanthan gum 0.38 g citric acid 0.14 g stevia and 0.4 g natural flavor that are not believed to affect the efficacy of Formula A. FORMULA A is to be added to a liquid such as 180 ml of water milk juice etc. mixed and consumed as a suspension. The dried blueberry pomace extract powder used in connection with the present invention is preferably blueberry extract powder product no. FG20155 available from Milne Fruit Products of Prosser Wash.

Formula A is used in the examples below. One dose of FORMULA A provides 120 of the recommended daily dietary allowance RDA of antioxidant activity for children and adults as well as 30 dietary fiber for men and 50 dietary fiber for women 60 dietary fiber for children aged 1 3 45 dietary fiber for children aged 4 8 36 dietary fiber for boys of ages 9 13 and 45 of dietary fiber for girls of ages 9 13.

Preferably a dose of Formula A is taken at least once per day more preferably at least twice per day and even more preferably at least 3 times per day. Each dose of FORMULA A is analyzed to contain active and inactive ingredients described in the table 8 

This study is expected to demonstrate that overweight subjects with impaired fasting blood glucose on an ad libitum diet who take FORMULA A either within 1 hour prior to meal 1 or within 1 hour prior to meal 2 as well as within 1 hour prior to meal 3 for 4 weeks 

In this study subjects consume either 180 ml of FORMULA A formula or a placebo containing the same total dietary fiber level as FORMULA A but as inactive cellulose orally within 1 hour prior to consumption of either meal 1 or meal 2 and within 1 hour prior to consumption of meal 3 each day. Placebo formula contains cellulose with food coloring and flavor to match the total dietary fiber content 8.75 g of FORMULA A. Placebo is prepared by Merlin Development a the same time they prepare FORMULA A

Subjects report weekly for measurements and assessment of any side effects. They are asked to collect a stool sample before initiating either FORMULA A or placebo intervention as well as at the end of the 4 week treatment period. They are also asked to record any side effects and their frequency checklist assessment . They are asked to record appetite how hungry are you and satiety how full are you during the standardized meal at the 3week of intervention. They are provided with the proper paper work to record these.

1 Healthy men and women between the ages of 18 and 70 with a BMI between 25 and 35 are eligible. 2 Fasting blood glucose between 100 and 125 mg dl. 3 Stable weight over 2 months

Different tests are performed at the screening of potential participants at the beginning of the study and at the end of the 4 week treatment period.

Subjects are screened to exclude hypothyroidism pregnancy and heart disease. The following tests can suffice for this T4 thyroxin T3 triiodotyronine TSH thyroid stimulating hormone urine pregnancy test blood pressure ECG electrocardiogram .

Subjects selected for participation are allowed an ad libitum diet and are given an evaluation sheet to assess their appetite and satiety before and after a meal. Foods excluded include alcohol. Low calorie or joule liquids are stressed in place of high calorie or joule liquids such as fruit juices milk sweet tea tea with sugar regular soft drinks coffee with sugar etc. The subjects are randomly assigned to either FORMULA A or placebo treatments. Both the experimenter and the subjects are blinded to who receive FORMULA A or the placebo. The subjects are encouraged to consume either treatment within 1 hour prior to either breakfast or lurch and within 1 hour prior to dinner.

Subject are given a 4 weeks supply of either FORMULA A or placebo at the onset and are instructed to consume the entire 180 ml volume within 1 hour prior to either meals 1 or 2 as well as another 180 ml volume containing either FORMULA A or placebo within 1 hour prior to meal 3. Ad libitum diets are followed for 4 weeks but the volunteers are instructed to consume either FORMULA A or placebo as their only between meal snack.

If subjects took FORMULA A for periods longer than 4 weeks particularly for at least 8 weeks the subjects would experience significant weight loss that was primarily fat loss.

This study is expected to demonstrate that overweight subjects with impaired fasting blood glucose on an ad libitum diet who take FORMULA A but not those assigned to consume a placebo within 2 hours prior to consuming either meal 1 or meal 2 as well as within 2 hours prior to consuming meal 3 as a snack replacement for 4 weeks 

In this study subjects are randomly selected to consume 180 ml of either FORMULA A formula or placebo formula orally within 2 hours prior to ingestion of either meals 1 or 2 as well as within 2 hours prior to consumption of meal 3 each day. The subjects and experimenters are blinded to the treatment assignments. Placebo formula contains cellulose with food coloring and flavor to match the total dietary fiber content 8.75 g of FORMULA A. Placebo is prepared by Merlin Development at the same time they prepare FORMULA A. Both formulations are coded by Merlin Development and the code is maintained with them as well as is held in confidence by a pharmacist at the study clinic until all data are collected at the end of study.

Subjects report weekly for measurements and assessment of any side effects. They are asked to collect a stool sample before initialing FORMULA A or Placebo intervention as well as at the end of the 4 week treatment period. They are also asked to record any side effects and their frequency checklist assessment . They are asked to record appetite how hungry are you and satiety how full are you during the OGTT at both the onset and at the end of the trial as well as during a 3standardized meal. They are provided with the proper paper work to record these.

A total of 30 subjects is selected. Fifteen subjects are randomly assigned to consume FORMULA A and the remaining 15 subjects are assigned to the FORMULA A group. The demographics of each group are carefully matched.

1 Healthy men and women between the ages of 18 and 70 with a BMI between 25 and 35 are eligible. 2 Fasting blood glucose between 100 and 125 mg dl. 3 Stable weight over 2 months

Different tests are performed at the screening of potential participants at the beginning of the study and at the end of the 4 week treatment period.

Subjects are screened to exclude hypothyroidism pregnancy and heart disease. The following tests can suffice for this T4 thyroxin T3 triiodotyronine TSH thyroid stimulating hormone urine pregnancy test blood pressure ECG electrocardiogram .

Subjects selected for participation are allowed an ad libitum diet and are given an evaluation sheet to assess their appetite and satiety before and after a meal. Foods excluded include alcohol. Low calorie or joule liquids are stressed in place of high calorie or joule liquids such as fruit juices milk sweet tea tea with sugar regular soft drinks coffee with sugar etc. The subjects are encouraged to consume either FORMULA A or Placebo as their only between meal snack.

Subjects are given a 4 weeks supply of ether FORMULA A or Placebo at the onset and are instructed to consume the entire 180 ml volume containing either formula within 2 hours prior to either meals 1 or 2 as well as another 180 ml volume containing either formula within 2 hours prior to meal 3. Ad libitum diets are followed for 4 weeks but the volunteers are instructed to consume either FORMULA A or Placebo as their only between meal snack.

If subjects took FORMULA A as a snack replacement for periods longer than 4 weeks particularly for at least 8 weeks the subjects would experience significant weight loss that was primarily fat loss.

This study is expected to demonstrate that Type 2 diabetic T2D subjects with insulin resistance on an ad libitum diet who take a DPP 4 inhibitor and FORMULA A within 1 hour prior to either meal 1 or meal 2 as well as within 1 hour prior to meal 3 for 4 weeks 

In this study T2D patients are randomly assigned to either consume 180 ml of FORMULA A or a placebo formula containing cellulose orally within 1 hour prior to either meals 1 or 2 as well as within 1 hour prior to meal 3 each day. Patients and experimenters are blinded to this assignment. All patients are also instructed to take sitagliptin Januvia at the recommended dose of 100 mg once per day in the morning prior to meal 1 as a treatment to manage their diabetes.

Subjects report weekly for measurements and assessment of any side effects. They are asked to collect a stool sample before the initiation of the trial as well as at the end of the 4 week treatment period. They are also asked to record any side effects and their frequency checklist assessment . They are asked to record appetite how hungry are you and satiety how full are you during the OGTT at both the onset and at the end of the trial as well as before and during a standardized meal at the 3week of treatments. They are provided with the proper paper work to record these.

A total of 24 subjects is selected. 12 will be randomly assigned to receive Januvia placebo a cellulose solution that contains the same total dietary fiber content as FORMULA A and mimics FORMULA A in color and taste or Januvia FORMULA A.

1 T2D men and women between the ages of 18 and 70 with a BMI between 25 and 35 are eligible. 2 Fasting blood glucose between greater than 125 mg dl. 3 Stable weight over 2 months

Different tests are performed at the screening of potential participants at the beginning of the study and at the end of the 4 week treatment period.

Subjects are screened to exclude hypothyroidism pregnancy and heart disease. The following tests can suffice for this T4 T3 TSH urine pregnancy test blood pressure ECG. Fasting blood glucose fasting insulin and HgbA1 levels are also measured as an assessment of their diabetic state.

Patients selected for participation are allowed an ad libitum diet and are given an evaluation sheet to assess their appetite and satiety. Foods excluded include alcohol. Low calorie or joule liquids are stressed in place of high calorie or joule liquids such as fruit juices milk sweet tea tea with sugar regular soft drinks coffee with sugar etc. All 24 patients are also instructed to take sitagliptin Januvia at the recommended dose of 100 mg once per day in the morning with or without food as a treatment to manage their diabetes. 12 patients are randomly selected to also consume FORMULA A before 2 of 3 daily meals and the remaining 12 patients are instructed to consume a placebo before 2 of 3 daily meals. Patients and investigators are blinded to whether the snack replacement is placebo or FORMULA A.

Subjects are given a 4 weeks supply of sitagliptin and either FORMULA A or placebo at the onset and are instructed to consume the entire 180 ml volume of either snack replacement within 1 hour prior to either meals 1 or 2 as well as another 180 ml volume of snack replacement within 1 hour prior to meal 3. All subjects are required to take 1 tablet of sitagliptin daily 100 mg in the morning with or without food. Ad libitum diets are followed for 4 weeks.

If subjects took FORMULA A with other DPP IV inhibitors or other formulations of Januvia the subjects are expected to also have significantly improved glucose regulation.

This study is expected to demonstrate that overweight children with prediabetes or at high risk of developing T2D type 2 diabetes on an ad libitum diet who take FORMULA B identical active ingredients to FORMULA A but formulated in a child friendly delivery system such as ice cream jelled animals cookies etc. within 1 hour prior to either meal 1 or meal 2 as well as within 1 hour prior to meal 3 for 4 weeks 

In this study children consume 6 jelled animals of FORMULA B formula each jelled animal contains about 20 g of FORMULA B within 1 hour prior to either meals 1 or 2 as well as within 1 hour prior to meal 3 each day.

Subjects report weekly for measurements and assessment of any side effects. They are asked to collect s stool sample before initiating FORMULA B intervention as well as at the end of the 4 week treatment period. They are also asked to report side effects to their parents who record them and their frequency checklist assessment . The parents are instructed to ask and to record appetite how hungry are you and satiety how full are you before during and after a standardized 3meal at the beginning of study and at the end. The investigators score the same assessment during the OGTT at both the onset and at the end of the trial as well as at home. The parents are provided with the proper paper work to record these.

1 Healthy prepubertal boys and girls between the ages of 7 and 12 with a BMI between 25 and 30 are eligible. 2 Fasting blood glucose between 100 and 125 mg dl.

Different tests are performed at the screening of potential participants at the beginning of the study and at the end of the 4 week treatment period.

Children are screened to exclude hypothyroidism and puberty. The following tests can suffice for this T4 T3 TSH a physical exam and in questionable cases based on the physical exam or peripubertal presentations a gonadotropin releasing hormone challenge test.

Children selected for participation are allowed an ad libitum diet and their parents are given an evaluation sheet to assess their appetite and satiety. Low calorie or joule liquids are stressed in place of high calorie or joule liquids such as fruit juices milk regular soft drinks coffee with sugar etc. The children are encouraged to consume FORMULA B as their only between meal snack. Other snacks such as candy ice cream milk shakes cookies potato chips etc. are discouraged.

Children are given a 4 weeks supply of FORMULA B at the onset and are instructed to consume the entire 6 jelled animals containing FORMULA B within 1 hour prior to either meal 1 or 2 as well as another 6 jelled animals containing FORMULA B within 1 hour prior to meal 3. Ad libitum diets are followed for 4 weeks but the children are instructed to consume FORMULA B as their only between meal snack.

If children took FORMULA A for periods longer than 4 weeks as a snack replacement particularly for at least 8 weeks the children would experience significant weight loss that was primarily fat loss.

JH was a 30 year old Caucasian male who gained 10 kg over the course of 8 months and developed lower back pain. He presented to his primary physician with that complaint.

The patient was taking omeprazole 20 mg d lisinopril 40 mg d metoprolol 100 mg d and hydrochlorothiazide 25 mg d at the time of his presentation had no allergies and had undergone no surgeries. He denied past hospitalizations trauma with residua or blood transfusions. He had never smoked drank 3 4 alcoholic drinks per week on average and had no history of intravenous drug use. He was a full time law student and had no exposures to occupational toxins. During the 6 months prior to his presentation he had been sexually active with one woman. The patient s mother and father were living and well. He had one sister who was living and well and he had no children. There was no family history of diabetes. He had no complaint other than lower back pain. On physical examination he was 104 kg with a height of 165 cm and a body mass index BMI of 38.3 kg m. His blood pressure was 116 70 with a pulse rate of 80 min and he was afebrile. Urinalysis demonstrated presence of glucose that was followed up by a non fasting capillary blood glucose of 450 mg dl glucose and a hemoglobin A1c of 8.8 and a microalbumin creatine ratio of 147. His physician made the diagnosis of type 2 diabetes mellitus based on his age lack of acidosis and a fasting blood sugar of 375 mg dL. He was started on metformin 500 mg twice a day and was instructed to measure his fasting blood sugar on a daily basis. Over the course of 7 days he was instructed to increase metformin to 1000 mg twice a day. Over the course of the next 9 days he developed persistent watery stools and his fasting blood sugar decreased to about 325 mg dL. He knew from his contact with NuMe Health LLC that the company was developing and testing a dietary supplement with a goal of increase insulin sensitivity through a salutary effect on the stool microbiome. On the 9th day of his treatment with 1000 mg metformin dose he added FORMULA A taken twice a day within an hour before breakfast or lunch and within an hour before dinner. Within two days of starting FORMULA A his fasting glucose dropped from 325 mg dL to 175 mg dL and after 5 weeks of taking the FORMULA A along with the metformin his fasting blood glucose was 100 mg dL .

Dividing the first 60 days of diabetes treatment into 10 day periods his blood sugar and its variance standard deviation decreased from 344 44.1 mg dL in the first 10 days to 182.2 14.7 in the second 10 days 144.3 9.6 during the third 10 days 114.5 11.8 during the fourth 10 days 123.0 9.6 during the fifth 10 days and 121.0 11.8 during the sixth 10 days .

During this period his weight decreased by 5.5 kg and his watery stools reverted to soft regular formed bowel movements. After an additional month he ran out of his FORMULA A for 2 days. During that period his blood sugar increased from 100 mg dL to 131 mg dL and his diarrhea returned. After resuming FORMULA A his blood sugar returned to 113 mg dL and his stools return to being formed and soft. His diabetic control and stools have remained under control on the combination of metformin and FORMULA A at the time of this writing and he has lost about 5.5 kg body weight. His hemoglobin A1c decreased to 6.3 and a microalbumin creatine ratio was 16.

This case report is encouraging. Not only did FORMULA A appear to have a positive effect on fasting blood sugar but the watery stools induced by treatment with metformin were normalized. This is a potentially important clinical observation. Metformin has been recommended as the initial drug of choice for the treatment of type 2 diabetes 26 . Metformin has been reported to cause a 20 incidence of diarrhea in diabetic patients taking the drug compared to only 6 of diabetic patients not taking metformin 27 . In fact diarrhea with metformin is a sufficient problem that some diabetic patients cannot tolerate the drug. Since metformin has a good safety record causes an approximate 2 3 kg weight loss and is a low cost generic medication increasing the tolerance to metformin while increasing its efficacy using a safe food supplement could have beneficial public health consequences.

Acarbose is another drug used to treat diabetes that is associated with the side effect of a watery stool because of its mechanisms of action. If FORMULA A is used in conjunction with acarbose to treat type 2 diabetes both better control of blood glucose and solid stool formation are expected.

This randomized placebo controlled clinical trial is expected to demonstrate the efficacy and tolerability of FORMULA A in diarrhea predominant humans with IBS. Subjects assigned to consume FORMULA A but not a placebo within 1 hour prior to consuming either meal 1 or meal 2 as well as within 1 hour prior to consuming meal 3 for 4 weeks 

In this study subjects are randomly selected to consume 180 ml of either FORMULA A formula or placebo formula orally within 1 hour prior to ingestion of either meals 1 or 2 as well as within 1 hour prior to consumption of meal 3 each day. The subjects and experimenters are blinded to the treatment assignments. Placebo formula contains cellulose with food coloring and flavor to match the total dietary fiber content 8.72 g of FORMULA A. Placebo is prepared by Merlin Development at the same time they prepare FORMULA A. Both formulations are coded by Merlin Development and the code is maintained with them as well as is held in confidence by a pharmacist at the study clinic until all data are collected at the end of study.

Subjects report weekly for measurements and assessment of any side effects. They are asked to collect a stool sample before initiating FORMULA A or Placebo intervention as well as at the end of the 4 week treatment period. During the screening treatment and follow up periods daily and weekly symptom data are collected using an interactive telephone based system.

Pain and bowel function data are collected during the screening phase to ensure that patients had a suitable symptom level at study entry. Severity of pain and discomfort was assessed daily on a 5 point scale 0 none 1 mild 2 moderate 3 intense and 4 severe . Stool consistency data are monitored daily and scored as follows 1 very hard 2 hard 3 formed 4 loose and 5 watery. Absence of stool was assigned a value of 0. Patients also record their IBS symptoms urgency 0 feel no need to evacuate 100 feel severe need to evacuate stool frequency of stools per day bloating 0 no sensation of extended abdomen 1 mild 2 moderate 3 severe and sense of incomplete evacuation 0 sensation of complete evacuation 1 incomplete 2 constipated daily during the treatment and follow up phases.

Patients with IBS and a diarrhea predominant bowel pattern aged 18 years or older are enrolled in this study if their symptoms fulfilled the Rome I criteria for IBS for at least 6 months. Patients undergo a 2 week screening evaluation to confirm sufficient level of pain and stool consistency before randomization. Since no objective criteria exist for subgrouping of IBS patients physicians are asked to assess patients according to predominant pattern of bowel function based on the patient s disease history. Physicians are provided with a guideline based on the percentage of time the patient had experienced diarrhea. If diarrhea is present for 75 of the time then the patient is classified as being diarrhea predominant.

Patients are excluded if they are pregnant breastfeeding or not using approved methods of contraception if of child bearing potential if an unstable medical or other gastrointestinal condition exists if there is a major psychiatric disorder or substance abuse within the previous 2 years if an investigational drug was used within 30 days of the screening phase or if a prohibited concurrent medication likely to interfere with gastrointestinal tract function or analgesia was used within 7 days before entering the screening phase.

Pain and bowel function data are collected during the screening phase to ensure that patients has a suitable symptom level at study entry as described above.

Evaluations are performed at the screening of potential participants at the beginning of the study daily and at the end of the 4 week treatment period.

Subjects selected for participation are allowed an ad libitum diet. Foods excluded include alcohol. The subjects are encouraged to consume either FORMULA A or Placebo within 1 hour prior to 2 meals each day with ingestion of the test agent being mandatory prior to the 3meal.

Subjects are given a 4 week supply of ether FORMULA A or Placebo at the onset and are instructed to consume the entire 180 ml volume containing either formula within 1 hour prior to either meals 1 and 2 as well as another 180 ml volume containing either formula within 1 hour prior to meal 3.

Subjects report weekly for measurements and assessment of IBS symptoms. During the screening and treatment periods daily symptom data are collected using an interactive telephone based system.

Utilization of FORMULA A to treat idiopathic diarrhea such as a parasitic infection a viral infection and a symptomatic response to a food is expected to also improve the severity of pain and discomfort increase stool consistency decrease the urgency to evacuate decrease stool frequency and decrease the sensation of bloating.

A 55 year old woman with chronic diarrhea that was associated with infection initially presents to her primary care physician diarrhea of 8 months duration that originally started shortly following treatment with cephalosporin and quinolone antibiotics for back surgery and a pulmonary infection. During these eight months she is repeatedly treated with metronidazole and vancomycin and required several hospitalizations for intravenous hydration. The patient complains of loose small bowel movements every 15 minutes accompanied by great urgency and rectal tenesmus. She wears diapers at all times and loses 10 of her body weight. Flexible sigmoidoscopy demonstrates classic pseudomembranous colitis. Stool samples are positive for toxins A and B and stool culture confirms heavy growth of this bacterium. The patient is again treated with vancomycin but fails to respond. She is subsequently prescribed nitazoxanide 2 acetyloxy N 5 nitro 2 thiazolyl benzamide 500 mg orally twice daily. Ten day after discontinuation of Nitazoxanide the patient has recurrence of her original diarrheal symptoms. Endoscopic analysis indicates return of pseudomembranous colitis and stool studies are again positive for . Despite two more cycles of Nitazoxanide including one lasting a full month and continuous administration of Florastor a probiotic containing the induced colitis reoccurrs.

Since conventional treatment fails to resolve the fecal bacteriotherapy is offered to break the cycle of recurrences and achieve a potential cure. Informed consent is obtained from both the patient and the donor following discussion with each of the potential risks benefits and alternative options. The patient is maintained on Nitazoxanide until the day before the procedure. The patient s husband of 44 years donor is prescribed FORMULA A 3 times a day for 2 weeks. Fecal donor material is taken from him who has no risk factors for blood borne communicable diseases has no recent exposure to antibiotics has no gastrointestinal symptoms of any kind and tests negative for common stool pathogens and . Bacteriotherapy is delivered into the patient s right colon by way of a colonoscopy. The patient is expected to have her first solid bowel movement on the second day following treatment. It is expected that her abdominal pain gradually subsides and at one month following bacteriotherapy and it is expected that her stool samples will be negative for . The patient is expected to commence FORMULA A twice a day. At six months follow up the patient is expected to report once daily formed stools.

All measurements disclosed herein are at standard temperature and pressure at sea level on Earth unless indicated otherwise. All materials used or intended to be used in a human being are biocompatible unless indicated otherwise.

The foregoing embodiments are presented by way of example only the scope of the present invention is to be limited only by the following claims.

