---

title: Condensation polymers for antimicrobial applications
abstract: A number of cationic antimicrobial polymers have been synthesized by a condensation polymerization in bulk. The initial polymer formed has backbone tertiary nitrogens, which are subsequently quaternized using a suitable quaternizing agent (e.g., alkyl halide). The cationic polymers include polyamides, polycarbonates, polypolyureas and polyguanidiniums having a cationic repeat unit comprising the quaternary ammonium nitrogen as a backbone nitrogen. The cationic polymers can be active against Gram-negative, Gram-positive microbes, and/or fungi.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09580554&OS=09580554&RS=09580554
owner: Agency For Science, Technology And Research
number: 09580554
owner_city: Singapore
owner_country: SG
publication_date: 20150506
---
This invention was made under a joint research agreement between International Business Machines Corporation and the Agency For Science Technology and Research.

The present invention relates to condensation polymers for antimicrobial applications and more specifically to cationic forms of polycondensation polymers for topical antibacterial use.

Antimicrobial agents are commonly used in personal care products to inhibit microbial growth and infections therefrom and product decomposition. Most antimicrobial agents used in these products are small molecules including anilides e.g. triclocarban bis phenols e.g. triclosan biguanides e.g. chlorhexidine and quaternary ammonium compounds e.g. cetylpyridium chloride and cetrimide . Among them triclosan is one of the most extensively used compounds. Triclosan is present in more than 50 of consumer products including soap deodorant toothpaste mouth wash cosmetics e.g. Garden Botanika Powder Foundation Mavala Lip Base Jason Natural Cosmetics and Movate Skin Litening Cream HQ cleaning supplies kitchen utensils children s toys bedding socks shoes and trash bags. It is effective against Gram positive bacteria while it has little activity against Gram negative bacteria and molds. At high concentrations it is biocidal with multiple cytoplasmic and membrane targets. However at low concentrations it is bacteriostatic by inhibiting fatty acid synthesis. On the other hand triclosan has cumulative and persistent effects on the skin. It was found in human breast milk and urine samples. At minimal concentrations of triclosan 

Many strains of bacteria spores e.g. species Gram positive bacteria e.g. mycobacteria and Gram negative bacteria e.g. have intrinsic resistance to the antimicrobial agents listed above. Moreover these antimicrobial agents are not effective against biofilms. For example and biofilms were found in disinfectant chlorhexidine solution biofilm in iodophor antiseptics and on the interior surface of polyvinyl chloride pipes used in the production of providone iodine antiseptics. Overuse of these antimicrobial agents has led to drug resistance in microbes. Major concerns include cross resistance and co resistance with clinically used antimicrobial agents which may present a potential public health risk.

Most small molecule antimicrobial agents do not physically damage the cell wall but rather penetrate the cell wall and act on specific intracellular targets. Consequently bacterial morphology is preserved allowing bacteria to easily develop resistance. Antimicrobial peptides AMPs have been explored as an alternative. AMPs e.g. magainins alamethicin protegrins and defensins do not have a specific target in microbes. They interact with microbial membranes based on electrostatic interaction inducing damage to the microbial membranes by forming pores in the membranes. The physical nature of this action prevents microbes from developing resistance to AMPs. Although efforts have been made to design synthetic peptides with various structures over the last two decades high manufacturing cost has limited their application in personal care products.

A number of cationic polymers that mimic the facially amphiphilic structure and antimicrobial functionalities of peptides have been proposed that can be more easily prepared at low cost and on large scale compared to peptides. For example antimicrobial polynorbornene and polyacrylate derivatives and pyridinium copolymers were synthesized either from amphiphilic monomers homopolymers or from cationic hydrophilic monomer and hydrophobic comonomer random copolymers . However most antimicrobial polymers reported in the literature are non biodegradable and or require several steps of synthesis. With the high volume of poorly degradable single use consumer products already destined for landfills the problem would be exacerbated by the addition of non biodegradable antimicrobial materials that destroy bacteria and fungi responsible for slow landfill degradation.

A number of biodegradable cationic polycarbonates having high potency towards pathogenic microbes and low toxicity. These cationic polycarbonates degrade in aqueous solution especially in an alkaline environment which is often found in consumer care products. On the other hand the synthesis of polycarbonates requires several steps like monomer synthesis ring opening polymerization and post quaternization which can translate into high consumer prices.

Currently biodegradable safe and cost effective antimicrobial agents are needed for use in personal care products that can kill multidrug resistant bacteria and fungi remove biofilms and prevent drug resistance.

W is a single bond or a divalent linking group having a structure C O L wherein L is divalent radical comprising 1 20 carbons and L is linked to carbon 1 

Q is a divalent radical comprising a positive charged nitrogen which is covalently bonded to 4 carbons and

adjacent repeat units of the cationic polymer are covalently linked in a head to tail arrangement wherein nitrogen labeled 2 is designated a tail and W is designated a head.

Also disclosed is a method of killing a microbe comprising contacting the microbe with an above described cationic polymer.

Also disclosed is an antimicrobial composition comprising an above described cationic polymer and at least one other chemical component.

The above described and other features and advantages of the present invention will be appreciated and understood by those skilled in the art from the following detailed description drawings and appended claims.

The disclosed cationic polymers are biodegradable materials comprising cationic repeat units having at least one quaternary nitrogen in the polyamine backbone. For this reason the cationic polymers are also referred to herein as polyamines . The quaternary nitrogen is a positive charged nitrogen covalently bonded only to carbons 3 or 4 carbons and is ionically associated with a negative charged counterion X. Preferably X is a free ion which is not directly or indirectly covalently linked to the polyamine backbone. The polyamines comprise cationic repeat units having a backbone portion that preferably comprise amide carbamate and or urea functional groups. The polyamines are water soluble and can be highly active against Gram positive microbes e.g. Gram negative microbes e.g. and fungi e.g. . The polyamines can be biocompatible biodegradable non hemolytic and non cytotoxic at concentrations above the minimum inhibitory concentration MIC and are therefore attractive for a wide range of consumer products such as for example cosmetics skin lotions and antibiotic drugs. The polyamines are capable of forming ionic complexes with anionic materials making them potentially useful as carriers for gene and or drug delivery applications.

The term biodegradable is defined by the American Society for Testing and Materials as degradation caused by biological activity especially by enzymatic action leading to a significant change in the chemical structure of the material. For purposes herein a material is biodegradable if it undergoes 60 biodegradation within 180 days in accordance with ASTM D6400. Herein a material is enzymatically biodegradable if the material can be degraded e.g. depolymerized by a reaction catalyzed by an enzyme.

A biocompatible material is defined herein as a material capable of performing with an appropriate host response in a specific application.

The polyamines are preferably linear homopolymers or linear random copolymers. Herein a linear polymer has one polymer branch and the branch has two peripheral ends i.e. two dangling ends as in a segment of a rope .

W is a single bond or a divalent linking group having a structure C O L wherein L is divalent radical comprising 1 20 carbons and L is linked to carbon 1 

Q is a divalent radical comprising a positive charged nitrogen which is covalently bonded to 4 carbons.

Starred bonds i.e. bond with an asterisk represent attachment points for a covalent bond not methyl groups. An atomic center or group having a starred bond i.e. shown linked to an asterisk means the atomic center or group is covalently bonded to another portion of the chemical structure.

The repeat units of the polyamines are linked in a head to tail arrangement. The nitrogen end is the tail e.g. nitrogen labeled 2 of formula 1 is designated the tail and the opposing end the head. The head of a given repeat unit can be linked to the tail of a different repeat unit or to a polymer chain end group. Likewise the tail of a given repeat unit can be linked to head of a different repeat unit or to a polymer chain end group.

When present L can have any suitable structure. For example L can be a divalent hydrocarbon group. Exemplary non limiting divalent hydrocarbon groups include methylene 1 1 ethylene 1 2 ethylene 1 1 propylene 1 2 propylene 1 3 propylene 1 1 butylene 1 2 butylene 1 3 butylene 1 4 butylene 1 1 pentylene 1 2 pentylene 1 3 pentylene 1 4 pentylene 1 5 pentylene 1 2 cyclohexylene 1 3 cyclohexylene 1 4 cyclohexylene 1 2 phenylene 1 3 phenylene and 1 4 phenylene. Accordingly W can have a structure that includes those of Scheme 1 wherein carbon 1 is linked to carbonyl carbon 1 of formula 1 .

Land Lcan be the same or different hydrocarbon groups. Exemplary non limiting Land Lgroups include 1 1 ethylene 1 2 ethylene 1 1 propylene 1 3 propylene 1 1 butylene 1 4 butylene and 1 1 pentylene 1 5 pentylene 1 2 cyclohexylene 1 3 cyclohexylene 1 4 cyclohexylene 1 2 phenylene 1 3 phenylene and 1 4 phenylene.

Exemplary R R R R Rmonovalent hydrocarbon groups include methyl ethyl n propyl isopropyl n butyl sec butyl tert butyl n pentyl iso pentyl neo pentyl cyclopentyl n hexyl cyclohexyl and benzyl.

Exemplary negative charged X counterions include halides e.g. fluoride chloride bromide iodide hydroxide alkoxides aryloxides alkyl and aryl carboxylates e.g. acetate benzoate hydrogen carbonate alkyl and aryl sulfonates e.g. methanesulfonate p toluenesulfonate methyl sulfate hydrogen sulfate nitrate dihydrogen phosphate dialkyl and diaryl phosphates and alkyl and aryl phosphonates.

W is a single bond or a divalent linking group having a structure C O L wherein L is divalent radical comprising 1 20 carbons and L is linked to carbonyl carbon 1 

Land Lare independent divalent linking groups selected from the group consisting of a single bond and hydrocarbon groups comprising 1 6 carbons and

L can be any of the above described groups for L and W can be any of the above described groups for W where it should be understood that the atomic centers linked to carbonyl carbon 1 of formula 1 for W are linked to carbonyl carbon 1 of formula 8 for W . In an embodiment L is the same as L and W is the same as W .

Land Lcan be the same or different hydrocarbon groups. Exemplary non limiting Land Lgroups include 1 1 ethylene 1 2 ethylene 1 1 propylene 1 2 propylene 1 3 propylene 1 1 butylene 1 2 butylene 1 3 butylene 1 4 butylene 1 1 pentylene 1 2 pentylene 1 3 pentylene 1 4 pentylene 1 5 pentylene 1 2 cyclohexylene 1 3 cyclohexylene 1 4 cyclohexylene 1 2 phenylene 1 3 phenylene and 1 4 phenylene. In an embodiment Lis 1 2 propylene wherein P is linked to the 1 position of 1 2 propeylene and Lis a single bond. In another embodiment Lis 1 2 ethylene and Lis a single bond.

P is a hydrophilic poly alkylene oxide chain comprising ethylene oxide and or propylene oxide repeat units. P can be a homopolymer of ethylene oxide referred to as a PEG chain or of propylene oxide units referred to as a PPO chain . P can be a random copolymer comprising ethylene oxide and propylene oxide repeat units. P can be a block copolymer comprising 2 or more blocks comprising ethylene oxide and propylene oxide repeat units. For example P can be a diblock copolymer chain comprising a PEG block and a PPO block denoted as PEG b PPO wherein each block has an average degree of polymerization DP greater than 1. Alternatively P can be a triblock copolymer chain e.g. PPO b PEG b PPO or PEG b PPO b PEG . One or more of the blocks of the block copolymer can be a random copolymer chain comprising ethylene oxide and propylene oxide repeat units e.g. PPO b PPO r PEO b PEO where the center block is a random copolymer chain .

r s and t represent degrees of polymerization of respective blocks of alkylene oxide repeat units enclosed in the brackets 

P can have a number average molecular weight of about 500 to about 5000. More specifically P can have a number average molecular weight of about 1500 to about 2500.

W is a single bond or a divalent linking group having a structure C O L wherein L is divalent radical comprising 1 20 carbons and L is linked to carbon 1 

When present the polymeric repeat unit is present in an amount of more than 0 mol to about 10 mol based on total moles of repeat units of the polyamine wherein molecular weight of P is based on number average molecular weight Mn .

The cationic polyamides are preferably prepared by a step growth polymerization performed in bulk using a base organocatalyst e.g. 1 8 diazabicycloundec 7 ene DBU 1 5 diazabicyclo 4.3.0 non 5 ene DBN 1 5 7 triazabicyclo 4.4.0 dec 5 ene TBD .

The reaction mixture contains a carbonyl monomer . The carbonyl monomer can comprise a carbonate compound capable of reacting with two primary amine groups to form a urea. Exemplary non limiting carbonyl monomers of this type include diethyl carbonate diphenyl carbonate and bis pentafluorophenyl carbonate.

Other carbonyl monomers comprise two carbonyl groups in the form of carboxylic ester groups carbonate groups carbamate groups or a combination thereof. In this instance each of the two carbonyl groups of the carbonyl monomer is capable of reacting with a primary amine to form an amide carbamate or a urea group.

The reaction mixture also contains an amine monomer comprising two primary amine groups and a tertiary amine group. The tertiary amine group is capable of forming positive charged quaternary ammonium group in a reaction with an alkylating agent quaternizing agent .

In a preferred embodiment the reaction mixture also comprises a second reactive diamine comprising a poly alkylene oxide chain terminated at each end by a primary amine group. This reactant is referred to herein as the polyether diamine .

The carbonyl monomer the amine monomer organocatalyst and optionally the polyether diamine can be heated together without solvent at a temperature of about 100 C. to 200 C. in one or more heating stages to effect polymerization. The reaction time can vary from about 1 hour to about 24 hours. Optionally vacuum can be applied to remove alcohol byproduct and assist in driving the reaction to completion. The bulk polymerization generates an initial polymer that can precipitate during the reaction.

No restriction is placed on carbonyl monomers comprising two carbonyl groups with the proviso that the desirable properties of the cationic polyamine are not adversely affected biodegradability antimicrobial activity hemolysis and cytotoxicity by the structure of the carbonyl monomer. The carbonyl monomers can be used singularly or in combination.

Carbonyl monomers comprising two carbonyl groups include diester monomers such as for example dimethyl malonate diethyl malonate diethyl 2 methylmalonate diethyl 2 propylmalonate diethyl 2 iso propylmalonate diethyl 2 n butylmalonate dimethyl isobutylmalonate 2 tert butylmalonate diethyl 2 pentylmalonate diethyl 2 heptylmalonate diethyl 2 hexylmalonate dimethyl succinate diethyl succinate dimethyl glutarate diethyl glutarate dimethyl adipate diethyl adipate dimethyl pimelate diethyl pimelate diethyl 1 1 cyclohexanedicarboxylate diethyl 1 4 cyclohexanedicarboxylate dimethyl terephalate dimethyl isophthalate. The diester monomer can comprise alkyl esters aryl esters and combinations thereof.

Exemplary non limiting carbonyl monomers comprising two carbamate groups include compounds of formula 13 

Each hydrogen of the methylene groups enclosed in parentheses of formula 13 can optionally be substituted with an alkyl or aryl substituent e.g. methyl ethyl or phenyl .

Other non limiting carbonyl monomers comprising two carbamate groups include compounds of formula 14 

Exemplary non limiting carbonyl monomers comprising two carbonate groups include ethylene glycol bis 2 chloro 4 nitrophenyl carbonate propylene glycol bis 2 chloro 4 nitrophenyl carbonate butylene glycol bis 2 chloro 4 nitrophenyl carbonate and 1 4 butylene glycol bis 2 chloro 4 nitrophenyl carbonate diethylene glycol bis 2 chloro 4 nitrophenyl carbonate dipropylene glycol bis 2 chloro 4 nitrophenyl carbonate dibutylene glycol bis 2 chloro 4 nitnophenyl carbonate triethylene glycol bis 2 chloro 4 nitrophenyl carbonate tripropylene glycol bis 2 chloro 4 nitrophenyl carbonate tributylene glycol bis 2 chloro 4 nitrophenyl carbonate tetraethylene glycol bis 2 chloro 4 nitrophenyl carbonate tetrabutylene glycol bis 2 chloro 4 nitrophenyl carbonate pentapropylene glycol bis 2 chloro 4 nitrophenyl carbonate and octaethylene glycol bis 2 chloro 4 nitrophenyl carbonate . The 2 chloro 4 nitrophenyl groups of each of the foregoing compounds can be replaced with any suitable activating group such as for example p nitrophenyl pentachlorophenyl pentafluorophenyl and the like.

Land Lare independent divalent linking groups selected from the group consisting of a single bond and hydrocarbon groups comprising 1 6 carbons and

P can be a homopolymer random copolymer or block copolymer comprising alkylene oxide repeat units. Especially preferred alkylene oxides units are ethylene oxide and propylene oxide.

Exemplary non limiting polyether diamines include diamine terminated triblock copolymers polypropylene oxide block poly ethylene oxide block polypropylene oxide 

In the above notation the stacking of repeat units within the square brackets represents a random distribution of the repeat units in the polymer chain. The starred bonds of each repeat unit overlapping the left bracket can be bonded to a different repeat unit at an attachment point indicated by the starred bonds of the repeat units overlapping the right square bracket or to the end group represented by the structure HN C R CH . Likewise the starred bonds of the repeat units overlapping the right bracket can be bonded to a different repeat unit at an attachment point indicated by the starred bonds of the repeat units overlapping the right square bracket or to an end group represented by NH. Subscripts n and m represent independent average numbers of respective repeat units enclosed in the parentheses. The polyether diamines can be used singularly or in combination.

A polyether diamine can have a number average molecular weight Mn of about 500 to about 5000. A polyether diamine can have a weight average molecular weight Mw of about 1000 to about 25000.

The initial polymer formed is treated with a suitable nitrogen quaternizing agent to convert the tertiary amine groups of the initial polymer to positive charged quaternary ammonium groups. The quaternizing agent can be any suitable material. such as for example an alkyl halide alkyl sulfonate and or benzyl halide. The quaternizing agents can be used singularly or in combination. In an embodiment the quaternizing agent is methyl iodide and or benzyl bromide.

The polyamines can have a number average molecular weight Mn of about 700 to about 25000. The polyamines can have a weight average molecular weight Mw of about 1000 to about 50000.

HC50 is defined as the concentration in mg L of cationic polyamine that causes 50 of mammalian red blood cells to undergo hemolysis. HC50 values of 1000 mg L or higher are desirable.

HC20 is defined as the concentration in mg L of cationic polyamine that causes 20 of mammalian red blood cells to undergo hemolysis. HC20 values of 500 mg L or higher are desirable.

Minimum inhibitory concentration MIC is defined as the minimum concentration in mg L of cationic polyamine required to inhibit growth of a given microbe for an 18 hour period bacteria or 42 hour period fungi . A MIC less than 500 mg L is desirable. Even more desirable is a MIC of 150 mg L or less. A lower MIC indicates higher antimicrobial activity.

Minimum bactericidal concentration MBC is defined as the minimum concentration in mg L of cationic polyamine required to kill a given microbe. A lower MBC indicates higher antimicrobial activity.

HC50 selectivity is defined as the ratio of HC50 MIC. An HC50 selectivity of 3 or more is desirable. Higher HC50 selectivity values indicate more activity against bacterial cells and less toxicity to mammalian cells. Likewise HC20 selectivity is defined as the ratio of HC20 MIC. An HC20 selectivity of 3 or more is desirable.

Non limiting exemplary bacteria include Gram positive Gram negative fungus Gram negative and yeasts. Other microbes include Gram positive Gram positive Methicillin resistant MRSA Gram positive Vancomycin resistant VRE Gram negative and Gram negative and .

The polyamines can have a minimum inhibitory concentration MIC of about 8 mg L to about 500 mg L and more preferably about 8 mg L to about 250 mg L and most preferably 8 mg L to about 125 mg L against a bacterium. In an embodiment the cationic polyamines can have a MIC of about 8 mg L to about 63 mg L against

The cationic polyamines can exhibit less than about 50 hemolysis at 1000 mg L i.e. can have an HC50 value greater than 1000 mg L .

The repeat unit comprising the poly alkaline oxide chain when present can substantially improve skin cell viability at concentrations higher than MIC without adversely affecting microbial toxicity.

The cationic polyamines have utility as antimicrobial components of consumer products that are used in contact with skin such as for example cosmetics e.g. skin lotions skin creams topically applied powders mascara eye liners lip glosses soaps shampoos and deodorants. The cationic polyamines also have utility as antimicrobial components of laundry detergents.

The cationic polyamines also have utility for human and or non human therapeutic medical treatments. The polyamines can be used in the form of a stand alone antibiotic drug and or as a complex comprising the polyamine and an anionic form of biologically active material e.g. genes drugs bound by non covalent interactions. A medical composition comprising the polyamine and or a biologically active material selected from the group consisting of genes drugs and combinations thereof can be administered topically intravenously orally by way of other body cavities and or by inhalant. The medical composition can have the form of a powder a pill a liquid a paste or a gel. The medical compositions are particularly attractive for use in injectable systems for delivery of rigid hydrophobic biologically active materials that have low water solubility such as the drugs paclitaxel and doxorubicin.

Another method comprises contacting a tumor cell with a complex comprising a disclosed polyamine and a tumor treating drug thereby killing the tumor cell.

An antimicrobial composition comprises a disclosed polyamine and at least one other component e.g. water drug gene . The antimicrobial composition can be applied to a human and or non human animal tissue including mammalian and or non mammalian animal tissue. The general term animal tissue includes wound tissue burn tissue skin internal organ tissue blood bones cartilage teeth hair eyes nasal surfaces oral surfaces other body cavity surfaces and any cell membrane surfaces. In an embodiment a method comprises contacting an animal tissue with the antimicrobial composition thereby inhibiting preventing and or eradicating a microbial infection of the tissue.

Other uses of the polyamines include disinfectant washes for hands skin hair bone ear eye nose throat internal tissue wounds and teeth e.g. as a mouthwash .

Still other uses of the polyamines include disinfectants for articles such as medical devices. Medical devices include swabs catheters sutures stents bedpans gloves facial masks absorbent pads absorbent garments internal absorbent devices and insertable mechanical devices. In an embodiment a method comprises contacting a medical device with an antimicrobial composition comprising a disclosed polyamine thereby disinfecting the medical device. In an embodiment the medical device is a catheter.

The antimicrobial compositions are also attractive as disinfecting agents for surfaces of articles i.e. non living articles such as for example building surfaces in homes businesses and particularly hospitals. Exemplary home and commercial building surfaces include floors door surfaces bed surfaces air conditioning surfaces bathroom surfaces railing surfaces kitchen surfaces and wall surfaces. Other articles include medical devices cloths garments and non medical equipment. Surfaces of articles can comprise materials such as wood paper metal cloth plastic rubber glass paint leather or combinations thereof. In an embodiment a method comprises contacting a surface of an article with an antimicrobial composition comprising a disclosed polyamine thereby disinfecting the surface. In another embodiment the antimicrobial composition has the form of a solution.

In an embodiment the antimicrobial composition is selected from the group consisting of soaps shampoos skin lotions skin creams cosmetics mouthwashes wound care agents deodorants surface cleaning agents and laundry detergents.

In water optionally containing organic solvent the polyamines can form a nanoparticulate complex with an anionic biologically active cargo material bound by non covalent interactions. These loaded complexes can have the form of a micelle that comprises a plurality of self assembled macromolecules of the polyamine and one or more molecules of the cargo material encapsulated therein.

A method of forming a nanoparticulate polyamine complex comprises i forming a first solution comprising a polyamine i.e. carrier and water ii forming a second solution comprising a biologically active material i.e. cargo in water and or a water miscible organic solvent iii combining the first and seconds solutions and iv removing any organic solvent e.g. by dialysis thereby forming an aqueous mixture comprising the complex. The complex can comprise the polyamine in an amount of 85.0 wt. to 99.9 wt. and the biologically active material in an amount of about 15.0 wt. to 0.1 wt. each based on total dry solids weight of the complex.

The term loading efficiency refers to the percentage of the initial weight of the biologically active material that is incorporated into the polyamine complex. The loading efficiency of the biologically active material in the polyamine complex is preferably at least 10 . Generally the loading efficiency of the biologically active material is in a range of 10 to 50 and even more specifically in a range of 30 to 50 .

Nanoparticles of the polyamine complex can have an average particle size circular cross sectional diameter of 10 nm to 500 nm 10 nm to 250 nm and preferably 25 nm to 200 nm as measured by dynamic light scattering. For the foregoing particle sizes the aqueous solution can have a pH of 4.5 to 8.0 5.0 to 7.0 or 6.0 to 7.0.

The organic solvent if any used to prepare the polyamine complex is preferably miscible with water at concentrations of at least 1 microliter or more of organic solvent per 100 microliters of water. Exemplary organic solvents include methanol ethanol propanol 2 propanol 1 butanol 2 butanol t butyl alcohol acetone 2 butanone dimethoxyethane diglyme diethyl ether methyl t butyl ether methylene chloride ethyl acetate ethylene glycol glycerin dimethylsulfoxide dimethylformamide acetic acid tetrahydrofuran THF and dioxane.

As stated above the biologically active cargo material can be a drug. Exemplary commercially available drugs include the following where the generic drug is enclosed in parentheses 13 cis Retinoic Acid 2 CdA Cladribine 2 Chlorodeoxyadenosine Cladribine 5 Azacitidine 5 Fluorouracil Fluorouracil 5 FU Fluorouracil 6 Mercaptopurine 6 MP 6 Mercaptopurine 6 TG Thioguanine 6 Thioguanine Thioguanine ABRAXANE Paclitaxel protein bound ACCUTANE Isotretinoin Actinomycin D Dactinomycin ADRIAMYCIN Doxorubicin ADRUCIL Fluorouracil AFINITOR Everolimus AGRYLIN Anagrelide ALA CORT Hydrocortisone Aldesleukin Alemtuzumab ALIMTA Pemetrexed Alitretinoin 9 cis retinoic acid Alkaban AQ Vinblastine ALKERAN Melphalan All transretinoic Acid Tretinoin Alpha Interferon Interferon Alfa Altretamine Amethopterin Methotrexate Amifostine Aminoglutethimide Anagrelide ANANDRON Nilutamide Anastrozole Arabinosylcytosine Cytarabine Ara C Cytarabine ARANESP Darbepoetin Alfa AREDIA Pamidronate ARIMIDEX Anastrozole AROMASIN Exemestane ARRANON Nelarabine Arsenic Trioxide Asparaginase ATRA All transretinoic Acid AVASTIN Bevacizumab Azacitidine BCG BCNU Carmustine Bendamustine Bendamustine Hydrochloride Bevacizumab Bexarotene BEXXAR Tositumomab Bicalutamide BICNU Carmustine BLENOXANE Bleomycin Bleomycin Bortezomib Busulfan BUSULFEX Busulfan C225 Cetuximab Calcium Leucovorin Leucovorin CAMPATH Alemtuzumab CAMPTOSAR Irinotecan Camptothecin 11 Irinotecan Capecitabine CARAC Fluorouracil Carboplatin Carmustine Carmustine Wafer CASODEX Bicalutamide CC 5013 Lenalidomide CCI 779 Temsirolimus CCNU Lomustine CDDP Cisplatin CEENU Lomustine CERUBIDINE Daunomycin Cetuximab Chlorambucil Cisplatin Citrovorum Factor Leucovorin Cladribine Cortisone Hydrocortisone COSMOGEN Dactinomycin CPT 11 Irinotecan Cyclophosphamide CYTADREN Aminoglutethimide Cytarabine Cytarabine Liposomal CYTOSAR U Cytarabine CYTOXAN Cyclophosphamide Dacarbazine DACOGEN Decitabine Dactinomycin Darbepoetin Alfa Dasatinib Daunomycin Daunorubicin Daunorubicin Hydrochloride Daunorubicin Liposomal DAUNOXOME Daunorubicin Liposomal DECADRON Dexamethasone Decitabine DELTA CORTEF Prednisolone DELTASONE Prednisone Denileukin Diftitox DEPOCYT Cytarabine Liposomal Dexamethasone Dexamethasone Acetate Dexamethasone Sodium Phosphate DEXASONE Dexamethasone Dexrazoxane DHAD Mitoxantrone DIC Dacarbazine DIODEX Dexamethasone Docetaxel DOXIL Doxorubicin Liposomal Doxorubicin Doxorubicin Liposomal DROXIA Hydroxyurea DTIC Dacarbazine DTIC DOME Decarbazine Duralone Methylprednisolone EFUDEX Fluorouracil ELIGARD Leuprolide ELLENCE Epirubicin ELOXATIN Oxaliplatin ELSPAR Asparaginase EMCYT Estramustine Epirubicin Epoetin Alfa ERBITUX Cetuximab Erlotinib L asparaginase Asparaginase Estramustine ETHYOL Amifostine ETOPOPHOS Etoposide Etoposide Etoposide Phosphate EULEXIN Flutamide Everolimus EVISTA Raloxifene Exemestane FARESTON Toremifene FASLODEX Fulvestrant FEMARA Letrozole Filgrastim Floxuridine FLUDARA Fludarabine Fludarabine FLUOROPLE Fluorouracil Fluorouracil Fluorouracil cream Fluoxymesterone Flutamide Folinic Acid Leucovorin FUDR Floxuridine Fulvestrant G CSF Pegfilgrastim Gefitinib Gemcitabine Gemtuzumab ozogamicin GEMZAR Gemcitabine GLEEVEC Imatinib mesylate GLIADEL Wafer Carmustine Wafer GM CSF Sargramostim Goserelin Granulocyte Colony Stimulating Factor Pegfilgrastim Granulocyte Macrophage Colony Stimulating Factor Sargramostim HALOTESTIN Fluoxymesterone HERCEPTIN Trastuzumab HEXADROL Dexamethasone HEXALEN Altretamine Hexamethylmelamine Altretamine HMM Altretamine HYCAMTIN Topotecan HYDREA Hydroxyurea Hydrocort Acetate Hydrocortisone Hydrocortisone Hydrocortisone Sodium Phosphate Hydrocortisone Sodium Succinate HYDROCORTONE Phosphate Hydrocortisone Hydroxyurea Ibritumomab Ibritumomab Tiuxetan Ibritumomab IDAMYCIN Idarubicin Idarubicin IFEX Ifosfamide IFN alpha Interferon alfa Ifosfamide IL 11 Oprelvekin IL 2 Aldesleukin Imatinib mesylate Imidazole Carboxamide Decarbazine Interferon alfa Interferon Alfa 2b PEG Conjugate Interleukin 2 Aldesleukin Interleukin 11 Oprelvekin INTRON A interferon alfa 2b IRESSA Gefitinib Irinotecan Isotretinoin Ixabepilone IXEMPRA Ixabepilone Kidrolase Asparaginase LANACORT Hydrocortisone Lapatinib L asparaginase LCR Vincristine Lenalidomide Letrozole Leucovorin LEUKERAN Chlorambucil LEUKINE Sargramostim Leuprolide Leurocristine Vincristine LEUSTATIN Cladribine Liposomal Ara C LIQUID PRED Prednisone Lomustine L PAM Melphalen L Sarcolysin Melphalen LUPRON Leuprolide LUPRON DEPOT Leuprolide MATULANE Procarbazine MAXIDEX Dexamethasone Mechlorethamine Mechlorethamine Hydrochloride Medralone Methylprednisolone MEDROL Methylprednisolone MEGACE Megestrol Megestrol Megestrol Acetate Megastrol Melphalan Mercaptopurine 6 Mercaptopurine Mesna MESNEX Mesna Methotrexate Methotrexate Sodium Methotrexate Methylprednisolone METICORTEN Prednisone Mitomycin Mitomycin C Mitomycin C Mitoxantrone M Prednisol Methylprednisolone MTC Mitomycin C MTX Methotrexate MUSTARGEN Mechlorethamine Mustine Mechlorethamine MUTAMYCIN Mitomycin C MYLERAN Busulfan MYLOCEL Hydroxyurea MYLOTARG Gemtuzumab ozogamicin NAVELBINE Vinorelbine Nelarabine NEOSAR Cyclophosphamide NEULASTA Pegfilgrastim NEUMEGA Oprelvekin NEUPOGEN Filgrastim NEXAVAR Sorafenib NILANDRON Nilutamide Nilutamide NIPENT Pentostatin Nitrogen Mustard Mechlorethamine NOLVADEX Tamoxifen NOVANTRONE Mitoxantrone Octreotide Octreotide acetate Octreotide ONCASPAR Pegaspargase ONCOVIN Vincristine ONTAK Denileukin Diftitox ONXOL Paclitaxel Oprelvekin Interleukin 11 ORAPRED Prednisolone ORASONE Prednisone Oxaliplatin Paclitaxel Paclitaxel Protein bound Pamidronate Panitumumab PANRETIN Alitretinoin PARAPLATIN Carboplatin PEDIAPRED Prednisolone PEG Interferon Pegaspargase Pegfilgrastim PEG INTRON Interferon Alfa 2b PEG L asparaginase Pemetrexed Pentostatin Phenylalanine Mustard Melphalen PLATINOL Cisplatin Platinol AQ Cisplatin Prednisolone Prednisone PRELONE Prednisolone Procarbazine PROCRIT Epoetin Alfa PROLEUKIN Aldesleukin Prolifeprospan 20 with Carmustine Implant Carmustine Wafer PURINETHOL 6 Mercaptopurine Raloxifene REVLIMID Lenalidomide RHEUMATREX Methotrexate RITUXAN Rituximab Rituximab Roferon A Interferon Alfa 2a RUBEX Doxorubicin Rubidomycin hydrochloride Daunomycin SANDOSTATIN Octreotide SANDOSTATIN LAR Octreotide Sargramostim SOLU CORTEF Hydrocortisone SOLU MEDROL Methylprednisolone Sorafenib SPRYCEL Dasatinib STI 571 Imatinib Mesylate Streptozocin SU11248 Sunitinib Sunitinib SUTENT Sunitinib Tamoxifen TARCEVA Erlotinib TARGRETIN Bexarotene TAXOL Paclitaxel TAXOTERE Docetaxel TEMODAR Temozolomide Temozolomide Temsirolimus Teniposide TESPA Thiotepa Thalidomide THALOMID Thalidomide THERACYS BCG Thioguanine Thioguanine Tabloid Thioguanine Thiophosphoamide Thiotepa THIOPLEX Thiotepa Thiotepa TICE BCG TOPOSAR Etoposide Topotecan Toremifene TORISEL Temsirolimus Tositumomab Trastuzumab TREANDA Bendamustine Hydrochloride Tretinoin TREXALL Methotrexate TRISENOX Arsenic Trioxide TSPA Thiotepa TYKERB Lapatinib VCR Vincristine VECTIBIX Panitumumab VELBAN Vinblastine VELCADE Bortezomib VEPESID Etoposide VESANOID Tretinoin VIADUR Leuprolide VIDAZA Azacitidine Vinblastine Vinblastine Sulfate VINCASAR PFS Vincristine Vincristine Vinorelbine Vinorelbine tartrate Vinorelbine VLB Vinblastine VM 26 Teniposide Vorinostat VP 16 Etoposide VUMON Teniposide XELODA Capecitabine ZANOSAR Streptozocin ZEVALIN Ibritumomab ZINECARD Dexrazoxane ZOLADEX Goserelin Zoledronic acid ZOLINZA Vorinostat and ZOMETA Zoledronic acid .

The following examples demonstrate the preparation antimicrobial properties hemolytic properties and cytotoxicity of the polyamines.

Herein Mn is the number average molecular weight Mw is the weight average molecular weight and MW is the molecular weight of one molecule.

All chemical reagents were purchased from Sigma Aldrich U.S.A. and used as received unless otherwise specified. Tryptic Soy Broth TSB Yeast Mold Broth YMB and Muller Hinton Broth MHB powder were purchased from BD Diagnostics Singapore and used to prepare the microbial broths according to the manufacturer s instruction. Cell lines of human dermal fibroblasts HDF ATCC No. 6538 ATCC No. 25922 ATCC No. 9027 and ATCC No 10231 were obtained from ATCC U.S.A. and reconstituted according to the suggested protocols. Fetal bovine serum FBS was purchased from Invitrogen Corporation. 3 4 5 Dimenthylthiazol 2 yl 2 5 diphenyl tetrazolium bromide MTT was dissolved in phosphate buffered saline PBS pH 7.4 with a concentration of 5 mg mL and the solution was filtered with a 0.22 micron filter to remove blue formazan crystals prior to usage. Rat red blood cells RBCs were obtained from the Animal Handling Unit of Biomedical Research Centers Singapore .

The P31 series of polymers P31a d was prepared according to the following reaction diagram where n represents the average number of repeat units enclosed in the parentheses.

Preparation of polymer P31a. N methyldiethanolamine MDEA 0.68 g 0.0057 mol dimethyl 2 methylmalonate DMM 0.99 g 0.0057 mol and TBD 0.05 g 0.00035 mol were charged in a Schlenk tube. The reactants were mixed by simple vortex until miscible 1 2 minutes . The Schlenk tube was placed in a heated sand bath at 80 C. After about 4 hours vacuum was applied to pull off the bi product and shift the equilibrium towards product. The reaction was allowed to continue for another 20 hours. The intermediate polymer I1 crystallized limiting the molecular weight. Mn GPC DMF 14000 g mol PDI 1.23 n 69 based on Mn . In the above structure of I1 E and E are end groups.

Intermediate polymer I1 was dissolved in DMF up to 100 C. and once dissolved was separated into 4 vials 0.5 g in DMF 8 10 ml . One of samples was quaternized 50 C. 24 hours with methyl iodide 0.5 g 1.5 eq. equivalents . The polymer P31a was isolated by precipitation in diethyl ether. The polymer P31a was rinsed 3 times with diethyl ether and further purified via dialysis.

P31b was prepared by charging one of the sample vials containing polymer I1 with dimethyl sulfate DMS 0.5 g 1.5 eq. following the general procedure above for P31a.

P31c was prepared by prepared by charging one of the sample vials containing polymer I1 with benzyl bromide BnBr 0.6 g 1.5 eq. following the general procedure above for P31a.

P31d was prepared by prepared by charging one of the sample vials containing polymer I1 with hexyl bromide HexBr 0.6 g 1.5 eq. following the general procedure above for P31a.

In the above structures of P31a d Z and Z are end groups. Potential Z groups of the P31a d polymers include MeO and

Polymers P32a d were prepared according to the following reaction diagram where n and represents the average number of repeat units enclosed in the parentheses and n 95.

Preparation of P32a. 3 3 Diamino N methyldipropylamine DAMDPA 0.98 g 0.0066 mol DMM 1.14 g 0.0066 mol and TBD 0.05 g 0.00035 mol were charged in a Schlenk tube. The reactants were mixed by simple vortex until miscible 1 2 min . The Schlenk tube was placed in a heated sand bath at 80 C. After about 4 hours vacuum was applied to remove the methanol byproduct and shift the equilibrium towards product. The reaction was allowed to continue for another 20 hours. The intermediate polymer I5 crystallized thereby limiting the molecular weight. Mn GPC DMF 21600 g mol PDI 1.43 n 95 based on Mn .

Intermediate polymer I5 was dissolved in DMF up to 100 C. and once dissolved was separated into vials 0.5 g in DMF 8 10 ml . One of the samples was quaternized 90 C. 24 hours with methyl iodide 0.5 g 1.5 eq. forming P32a. The polymer P32a was isolated by precipitation in diethyl ether. The polymer P32a n 95 was rinsed 3 times with diethyl ether and further purified via dialysis.

P32b n 95 was prepared by charging one of the sample vials containing polymer I5 with dimethyl sulfate DMS 0.5 g 1.5 eq. following the general procedure above for P32a.

P32c n 95 was prepared by prepared by charging one of the sample vials containing polymer I5 with benzyl bromide BnBr 0.6 g 1.5 eq. following the general procedure above for P32a.

P32d n 95 was prepared by prepared by charging one of the sample vials containing polymer I5 with hexyl bromide HexBr 0.6 g 1.5 eq. following the general procedure above for P32a.

Polymers P34a c were prepared according to the following reaction diagram where n represents the average number of repeat units enclosed in the parentheses and n 74.

Preparation of P34a. 1 4 Bis 3 aminopropyl piperazine BAPPIP 1.57 g 0.0078 mol DMM 1.36 g 0.0078 mol and TBD 0.05 g 0.00035 mol were charged in a Schlenk tube. The reactants were mixed by simple vortex until miscible 1 2 minutes . The reaction was allowed to react at room temperature for 4 hours and then the Schlenk tube was placed in a heated sand bath 80 C. 10 hours . Vacuum was applied to drive off the bi product and shift the equilibrium towards product. The intermediate polymer I9 crystallized limiting the molecular weight. Mn GPC DMF 20900 g mol PDI 1.55 n 74 based on Mn .

Intermediate polymer I9 was dissolved in DMF up to 100 C. and once dissolved was separated into vials 0.5 g in DMF 8 10 ml . One of the samples was quaternized 80 C. 24 hours with methyl iodide 0.5 g 1.5 eq. forming P34a. The polymer P34a was isolated by precipitation in diethyl ether. The polymer P34a n 74 was rinsed 3 times with diethyl ether and further purified via dialysis.

P34b n 74 was prepared by charging one of the sample vials containing polymer I9 with dimethyl sulfate 0.5 g 1.5 eq. following the general procedure above for P34a.

P34c n 74 was prepared by prepared by charging one of the sample vials containing polymer I9 with benzyl bromide 0.6 g 1.5 eq. following the general procedure above for P34a.

Diphenylcarbonate DPC 1.89 g 0.0088 mol N methyldiethanolamine MDEA 1.05 g 0.0088 mol and TBD 0.05 g 0.00035 mol were charged in a Schlenk tube. The reactants were mixed by simple vortex until miscible 1 2 minutes . The Schlenk tube was placed in a heated sand bath 90 C. and vacuum was applied to pull off the bi product and shift the equilibrium towards product. The reaction was allowed to continue for 20 hours. The polymerization evolved phenol that eventually sublimed and clogged the valve to the vacuum. The intermediate polymer I12 was dissolved and isolated by filtration to remove the phenol bi product. Mn GPC DMF 3000 g mol PDI 1.50 n 20 based on Mn .

Intermediate polymer I12 was dissolved in DMF and was quaternized 50 C. 24 hours with methyl iodide. The polymer P38 was rinsed 3 times with diethyl ether and further purified via dialysis.

Polymers P48a b and polymers P49a b were prepared according to the following reaction diagram where subscripts u and v represent mol of the repeating unit enclosed in parentheses and subscripts r s and t represent average number of repeating units in the brackets. The vertical stacking of the repeat units within the square brackets indicates a random distribution of the repeat units.

Preparation of P48a u 100 mole v 0 mole no ED 2003 . Diethyl succinate DESucc 1.15 g 0.0063 mol 3 3 diamino N methyldipropylamine DAMDPA 0.92 g 0.0063 mol and TBD 0.05 g 0.00035 mol were charged in a Schlenk tube. The reactants were mixed by simple vortex until miscible 1 2 minutes . The reaction was allowed to react at room temperature for 4 hours and then the Schlenk tube was placed in a heated sand bath 80 C. 10 hours . Vacuum was applied to drive off the bi product and shift the equilibrium towards product. The polymer I13 crystallized limiting the molecular weight.

Intermediate polymer I13 was marginally soluble in DMF after heating to 120 C. Once dissolved and homogenous polymer I13 was quaternized 85 C. 24 hours with benzyl bromide 2 g 1.5 eq. . The polymer P48a u 100 mole v 0 mole was isolated by precipitation in THF. The polymer was rinsed 3 times with diethyl ether and further purified via dialysis. Mn aqueous GPC 4 510 g mol PDI 2.19. is a H NMR spectrum of P48a.

Preparation of P48b u 95 mole v 5 mole using 5 mol ED 2003. Diethyl succinate DESucc 1.02 g 0.0058 mol 3 3 diamino N methyldipropylamine DAMDPA 0.83 g 0.0055 mol ED 2003 0.58 g 0.00029 mol s 39 r t 6 and TBD 0.05 g 0.00035 mol were charged in a Schlenk tube. The reactants were mixed by simple vortex until miscible 1 2 minutes . The reaction was allowed to react at room temperature for 4 hours and then the Schlenk tube was placed in a heated sand bath 80 C. 10 hours . Vacuum was applied to drive off the bi product and shift the equilibrium towards product. The polymer I14 crystallized limiting the molecular weight.

Intermediate polymer I14 was marginally soluble in DMF after heating to 120 C. for 2 3 hours. Once dissolved and homogenous the polymer was quaternized 85 C. 24 hours with benzyl bromide 2.8 g 1.5 eq. . The polymer P48b was isolated by precipitation in THF. The polymer P48b u 95 mole v 5 mole was rinsed 3 times with diethyl ether and further purified via dialysis. Mn Aqueous GPC 1 960 g mol PDI 1.66. is a H NMR spectrum of P48b.

Preparation of P49a u 97.5 mole v 2.5 mole using 2.5 mol ED 2003. Diethyl succinate DESucc 1.14 g 0.0066 mol 3 3 diamino N methyldipropylamine DAMDPA 0.93 g 0.0064 mol ED 2003 0.26 g 0.00013 mol and TBD 0.05 g 0.00035 mol were charged in a Schlenk tube. The reactants were mixed by simple vortex until miscible 1 2 minutes . The reaction was allowed to react at room temperature for 4 hours and then the Schlenk tube was placed in a heated sand bath 80 C. 10 hours . Vacuum was applied to drive off the bi product and shift the equilibrium towards product. The polymer I15 crystallized limiting the molecular weight.

Intermediate polymer I15 was marginally soluble in DMF after heating to 120 C. for 2 3 hours. Once dissolved and homogenous the polymer was quaternized 85 C. 24 hours with benzyl bromide 2.5 g 1.5 eq. . The polymer P49a was isolated by precipitation in THF. The polymer P49a u 97.5 mole v 2.5 mole was rinsed 3 times with diethyl ether and further purified via dialysis. Mn Aqueous GPC 2 100 g mol PDI 1.75. is a H NMR spectrum of P49a.

Preparation of P49b u 97.5 mole v 2.5 mole using 10.0 mol ED 2003. Diethyl succinate 1.25 g 0.0072 mol 3 3 diamino N methyldipropylamine 0.94 g 0.0064 mol ED 2003 1.44 g 0.00072 mol and TBD 0.05 g 0.00035 mol were charged in a Schlenk tube. The reactants were mixed by simple vortex until miscible 1 2 minutes . The reaction was allowed to react at room temperature for 4 hours and then the Schlenk tube was placed in a heated sand bath 80 C. 10 hours . Vacuum was applied to drive off the bi product and shift the equilibrium towards product. The polymer I16 crystallized limiting the molecular weight.

Intermediate polymer I16 was marginally soluble in DMF after heating to 120 C. for 2 3 hours. Once dissolved and homogenous the polymer I16 was quaternized 85 C. 24 hours with benzyl bromide 2.2 g 1.5 eq. . The polymer P49b was isolated by precipitation in THF. The polymer P49b u 97.5 mole v 2.5 mole was rinsed 3 times with diethyl ether and further purified via dialysis. Mn Aqueous GPC 2 800 g mol PDI 1.69. is a H NMR spectrum of P49b.

Polymers P59a f were prepared according to the following reaction diagram where subscripts u and v represent mole percentages. Subscripts r s and t represent average degree of polymerization.

Preparation of P59a u 100 mole v 0 mole r 0 t 0 r t 6 s 39 DP 19 RX benzyl bromide using 0 mol ED 2003. Diethyl succinate DESucc 1.40 g 0.0080 mol 3 3 bis 3 aminopropyl piperazine BAPPIP 1.61 g 0.0080 mol and TBD 0.05 g 0.00035 mol were charged in a Schlenk tube. The reactants were mixed by simple vortex until miscible 1 2 minutes . The reaction was allowed to react at room temperature for 4 hours and then the Schlenk tube was placed in a heated sand bath 100 C. 1.5 hours followed by heating at 150 C. 24 hours. Vacuum was applied to remove the alcohol byproduct and shift the equilibrium towards product. The polymer I17 crystallized limiting the molecular weight. Mn GPC DMF 5500 g mol PDI 1.20 u 100 mol v 0 mol degree of polymerization DP 19 .

Intermediate polymer I18 was marginally soluble in DMF after heating to 120 C. Once dissolved and homogenous the polymer I17 was quaternized 85 C. 24 hours with benzyl bromide 5 g 3 eq. Polymer P59a u 100 mole v 0 mole r 0 t 0 r t 6 s 39 RX benzyl bromide was isolated by precipitation in THF. The polymer P59a was rinsed 3 times with diethyl ether and further purified via dialysis.

Preparation of P59b u 100 mole v 0 mole r 0 t 0 r t 6 s 39 DP 19 RX methyl iodide with 0 mol ED 2003. Intermediate polymer I17 was quaternized with MeI 4 g 3 eq. using the general procedure described above for P59a.

Preparation of P59c u 97.5 mole v 2.5 mole r 0 t 0 r t 6 s 39 RX benzyl bromide with 2.5 mol ED 2003. Diethyl succinate DESucc 1.29 g 0.0074 mol ED 2003 0.37 g 0.00018 mol and TBD 0.05 g 0.00035 mol were charged in a Schlenk tube. The reactants were mixed by simple vortex until miscible 1 2 minutes . The reaction was allowed to react under nitrogen for 1 hour 100 C. . 3 3 Bis 3 aminopropyl piperazine 1.45 g 0.0082 mol was charged in the Schlenk tube was placed in a heated sand bath 150 C. 20 hours . Vacuum was applied to drive off the bi product and shift the equilibrium towards product. The intermediate polymer I19 crystallized limiting the molecular weight. Mn GPC DMF 7500 g mol PDI 1.20 u 97.5 mol v 2.5 mol based on feed .

Intermediate polymer I19 was marginally soluble in DMF after heating to 120 C. 2 3 hours . Once dissolved and homogenous 119 was quaternized 85 C. 24 hours with benzyl bromide 6 g 3 eq. The product polymer P59c u 97.5 mole v 2.5 mole r 0 t 0 r t 6 s 39 RX benzyl bromide was isolated by precipitation in THF. The polymer P59c was rinsed 3 times with diethyl ether and further purified via dialysis.

Preparation of P59d u 97.5 mole v 2.5 mole r 0 t 0 r t 6 s 39 RX methyl iodide with 2.5 mol ED 2003. Intermediate polymer I19 was quaternized with MeI 5.6 g 3 eq. using the general procedure described above to yield P59d.

Preparation of P59e u 95.0 mole v 5.0 mole r 0 t 0 r t 6 s 39 RX benzyl bromide with 5 mol ED 2003. Diethyl succinate DESucc 1.05 g 0.0058 mol ED 2003 0.58 g 0.00029 mol and TBD 0.05 g 0.00035 mol were charged in a Schlenk tube. The reactants were mixed by simple vortex until miscible 1 2 minutes . The reaction was allowed to react under nitrogen for 1 hour 100 C. . 3 3 Bis 3 aminopropyl piperazine 1.10 g 0.0055 mol was added to the Schlenk tube and the Schlenk tube was placed in a heated sand bath 150 C. 20 hours . Vacuum was applied to drive off the bi product and shift the equilibrium towards product. The polymer I21 crystallized limiting the molecular weight.

Intermediate polymer I21 was marginally soluble in DMF after heating to 120 C. 2 3 hours . Once dissolved and homogenous I21 was quaternized 85 C. 24 hours with benzyl bromide 2.6 g 3 eq. . The polymer P59e u 95.0 mole v 5.0 mole r 0 t 0 r t 6 s 39 RX benzyl bromide was isolated by precipitation in THF. The polymer P59e was rinsed 3 times with diethyl ether and further purified via dialysis.

Preparation of P59f u 95.0 mole v 5.0 mole r 0 t 0 r t 6 s 39 RX methyl iodide with 5 mol ED 2003. Intermediate polymer I21 was quaternized with MeI 2.3 g 3 eq. using the general procedure described above to form P59f.

The P60 series of polymers was made according to the following reaction diagram where subscripts u and v represent mole percentages and subscripts r s and t represent average degree of polymerization.

Preparation of P60a u 97.5 mole v 2.5 mole r 0 t 0 r t 6 s 39 RX methyl iodide with 2.5 mol ED 2003. Diethyl carbonate DEC 1.09 g 0.0089 mol ED 2003 0.46 g 0.00023 mol and TBD 0.05 g 0.00035 mol were combined in a Schlenk tube. The reactants were mixed by simple vortex until miscible 1 2 minutes . The reaction was allowed to react under nitrogen for 1 hour 100 C. . 3 3 Bis 3 aminopropyl piperazine 1.45 g 0.0082 mol was added to the Schlenk tube and the Schlenk tube was placed in a heated sand bath 150 C. 20 hours . Vacuum was applied to drive off the bi product and shift the equilibrium towards product. The intermediate polymer I24 crystallized limiting the molecular weight. Mn GPC DMF 8500 g mol PDI broad and multimodal u 97.5 mol v 2.5 mol based on feed .

Intermediate polymer I23 was marginally soluble in DMF after heating to 120 C. 2 3 hours . Once dissolved and homogenous the polymer I24 was quaternized 85 C. 24 hours with methyl iodide 3 g 2.5 3 eq. . The product polymer P60a was isolated by precipitation in THF. The polymer P60a u 97.5 mole v 2.5 mole r 0 t 0 r t 6 s 39 RX methyl iodide was rinsed 3 times with diethyl ether and further purified via dialysis.

Preparation of P60b with 2.5 mol ED 2003. Intermediate polymer I23 was quaternized with benzyl bromide using the general procedure described above for P60a u 97.5 mole v 2.5 mole r 0 t 0 r t 6 s 39 RX benzyl bromide .

Polymers P73a d were made according to the following reaction diagram where subscripts u and v represent mole percentages and subscripts r s and t represent average degree of polymerization.

Preparation of P73a u 100 mole v 0 mole r 0 t 0 r t 6 s 39 RX benzyl bromide with 0 mol ED 2003. Di boc guanidine DBocG 1.00 g 0.0038 mol 3 3 diamino N methyldipropylamine DAMDPA 0.92 g 0.0038 mol and TBD 0.05 g 0.00035 mol were combined in a Schlenk tube. The reactants were mixed by simple vortex until miscible 1 2 minutes . The reaction was allowed to react at room temperature for 4 hours and then the Schlenk tube was placed in a heated sand bath 150 C. 10 hours . Vacuum was pulled to drive off the bi product and shift the equilibrium towards product. The intermediate polymer I25 solidified as a rigid solvent swollen gel limiting the molecular weight.

Intermediate polymer I25 was soluble in DMF at room temperature. Once dissolved and homogenous I26 was quaternized 25 C. 24 hours with benzyl bromide 0.7 g 1.0 eq. . The polymer P73a u 100 mole v 0 mole r 0 t 0 r t 6 s 39 RX benzyl bromide was isolated by precipitation in diethyl ether. The polymer P73a was rinsed 3 times with diethyl ether and further purified via dialysis.

Preparation of P73b u 97.5 mole v 2.5 mole r 0 t 0 r t 6 s 39 RX benzyl bromide with 2.5 mol ED 2003. Di boc guanidine DBocG 1.00 g 0.0038 mol 3 3 diamino N methyldipropylamine DAMDPA 0.547 g 0.00376 mol ED 2003 0.193 g 0.000096 mol and TBD 0.05 g 0.00035 mol were charged in a Schlenk tube. The reactants were mixed by simple vortex until miscible 1 2 minutes . The reaction was allowed to react at room temperature for 4 hours and then the Schlenk tube was placed in a heated sand bath 150 C. 20 hours . Vacuum was applied to drive off the bi product and shift the equilibrium towards product. The polymer I26 solidified as a rigid solvent swollen gel. The polymerization becomes diffusion controlled limiting the molecular weight.

Intermediate polymer I26 was marginally soluble in DMF after heating to 100 C. 30 minutes . Once dissolved and homogenous 126 was quaternized 25 C. 24 hours with benzyl bromide 0.6 g 1.0 eq. . As the reaction proceeded it progressively became more homogeneous until solvated. The polymer P73b u 97.5 mole v 2.5 mole r 0 t 0 r t 6 s 39 RX benzyl bromide was isolated by precipitation in THF. The polymer P73b was rinsed 3 times with diethyl ether and further purified via dialysis.

Preparation of P73c u 95.0 mole v 5.0 mole r 0 t 0 r t 6 s 39 RX benzyl bromide with 5.0 mol ED 2003. Di boc guanidine 1.00 g 0.0038 mol 3 3 diamino N methyldipropylamine DAMDPA 0.53 g 0.00366 mol ED 2003 0.386 g 0.000192 mol and TBD 0.05 g 0.00035 mol were charged in a Schlenk tube. The reactants were mixed by simple vortex until miscible 1 2 minutes . The reaction was allowed to react at room temperature for 4 hours and then the Schlenk tube was placed in a heated sand bath 150 C. 20 hours . Vacuum was applied to drive off the bi product and shift the equilibrium towards product. The polymer I27 solidified as a rigid solvent swollen gel. The polymerization becomes diffusion controlled limiting the molecular weight.

Intermediate polymer I27 was marginally soluble in DMF after heating to 100 C. 30 minutes . Once dissolved and homogenous 127 was quaternized 25 C. 24 hours with benzyl bromide 0.6 g 1 eq. . As the reaction proceeded it progressively became more homogeneous until solvated. The polymer P73c u 95.0 mole v 5.0 mole r 0 t 0 r t 6 s 39 RX benzyl bromide was isolated by precipitation in THF. The polymer P73c was rinsed 3 times with diethyl ether and further purified via dialysis.

Preparation of P73d u 90.0 mole v 10.0 mole r 0 t 0 r t 6 s 39 RX benzyl bromide with 10.0 mol ED 2003. Di boc guanidine DBocG 1.00 g 0.0038 mol 3 3 diamino N methyldipropylamine DAMDPA 0.50 g 0.0034 mol ED 2003 0.772 g 0.00038 mol and TBD 0.05 g 0.00035 mol were charged in a Schlenk tube. The reactants were mixed by simple vortex until miscible 1 2 minutes . The reaction was allowed to react at room temperature for 4 hours and then the Schlenk tube was placed in a heated sand bath 150 C. 20 hours . Vacuum was applied to drive off the bi product and shift the equilibrium towards product. The polymer I28 solidified as a rigid solvent swollen gel. The polymerization becomes diffusion controlled limiting the molecular weight.

Intermediate polymer I28 was marginally soluble in DMF after heating to 100 C. 30 minutes . Once dissolved and homogenous the polymer I28 was quaternized 25 C. 24 hours with benzyl bromide. As the reaction proceeded it progressively became more homogeneous until solvated 0.6 g 1 eq. . The polymer P73d u 95.0 mole v 5.0 mole r 0 t 0 r t 6 s 39 RX benzyl bromide was isolated by precipitation in THF. The polymer P73d was rinsed 3 times with diethyl ether and further purified via dialysis.

Bacterial samples were inoculated in TSB or MHB at 37 C. whereas fungi samples were inoculated in YMB or MHB at room temperature both under constant shaking of 100 rpm revolutions per minute . The samples were grown overnight to enter the log growth phase. A broth microdilution method was used to determine the respective MIC of each polymer where 100 microliters of broth containing a polymer with a constant de ionized DI water content of 20 v v at various concentrations was placed in each well of a 96 well culture plate. Prior to the addition of an equal volume of microbial solution into each well the concentration of the microbial solution was first adjusted to obtain an optical density O.D. reading of approximately 0.07 at 600 nm using a microplate reader TECAN Switzerland which corresponds to the concentration of McFarland 1 solution of 3 10colony forming units CFU mL and followed by a 1000 time dilution to achieve an initial loading of 3 10CFU mL. The 96 well plate was then incubated at 37 C. for bacterial samples and room temperature for fungi samples under constant shaking of 100 rpm for 18 hours and 42 hours respectively. MIC was regarded to be the least concentration where no observable microbial growth was detected by the microplate reader after the incubation duration. Broth containing only microbes was used as the negative control. Six replicates were tested for each concentration of polymer and the control.

The same procedure as described for MIC measurement was used to determine the concentration of polymer that kills the microbes and the microbial samples were inoculated and prepared accordingly. After incubating for 18 hours for bacterial samples and 42 hours for fungi samples wells containing polymers at various concentrations of 0.0 MIC 0.0 times MIC 0.5 MIC 0.5 MIC 1.0 MIC 1.0 MIC and 2.0 MIC 2.0 MIC were collected individually and diluted through a series of tenfold. The diluted microbial solution 20 microliters was streaked onto an agar plate LB Agar from 1st Base . The plates were then incubated for 18 hours at 37 C. for bacterial samples and 42 hours at room temperature for fungi samples. The colony forming units on each plate were counted.

The same procedure as described for the killing efficiency test was used to assess the duration time required for polymers to achieve 99.9 killing efficiency of microbes. Eight duration times of 0 0.25 0.5 1 2 4 8 and 18 hours were selected and the microbes were treated at 1.0 MIC and 2.0 MIC concentration of polymers.

For polymers P31a P31c P31a P32a P32b P32d P34a P34b P48a P48b P49a and P49b TSB was used for all bacterial samples and YMB for fungi samples when assessing antimicrobial activities.

Fresh rat red blood cells RBCs suspension was diluted 25 times with PBS to achieve 4 v v blood content. Polymers were dissolved in PBS at various concentrations with a constant DI water concentration of 20 v v. Diluted blood suspension was treated with an equal volume of polymer solution and incubated at 37 C. for 1 hour. After centrifugation of the mixtures at 1000 g force for 5 minutes at 4 C. 100 microliters of supernatant was transferred into a 96 well culture plate with 4 replicates for each polymer concentration. The hemoglobin released was then measured using a microplate reader TECAN Switzerland at 576 nm. Untreated RBCs suspension was used as the negative control while RBCs suspension treated with 0.1 Triton X was the positive control. Percentage of hemolysis was calculated as follows Hemolysis O.D.of the treated sample O.D.of negative control O.D.of positive control O.D.of negative control 100 In Vitro Cytotoxicity

Cytotoxicity of polymers was investigated by MTT assay where HDF cells were seeded on 96 well plates at a density of 10cells per well and cultured in 100 microliters of DMEM supplemented with 10 FBS 5 penicillin streptomycin 2 mM L glutamine 4.5 g L D glucose and 110 mg L sodium pyruvate and incubated at 37 C. 5 COfor 24 hours. Polymers were dissolved in the cell culture medium at various concentrations. The prepared solution 100 microliters was then used to substitute the medium in each well. Each condition was tested in six replicates. The plates were then incubated at 37 C. 5 COfor 6 hours. After 6 hours of treatment with the polymer 100 microliters of fresh culture medium and 20 microliters of MTT solution 5 mg mL were added to replace the solution in each well. The plates were then maintained at 37 C. 5 COfor 4 hours. Dimethyl sulfoxide 150 microliters was added to each well to dissolve the internalized purple formazan crystals after removing the medium. The absorbance readings of formazan crystals were taken to be the absorbance at 550 nm subtracted by the absorbance at 690 nm TECAN Switzerland . Cell viability was expressed as a percentage of absorbance of the control cells without any treatment.

Antimicrobial activity of the polymers was assessed against four different microbes of clinical relevance and . The minimum inhibitory concentrations MICs of all polymers were determined using the broth microdilution method and were taken to be the lowest concentration where no observable microbial growth was detected by the microplate reader after the incubation duration with an initial microbial loading of 3 10CFU mL. Toxicity of polymers was evaluated via the hemolysis assay with fresh rat red blood cells. Both MIC and 50 hemolysis HC50 values of the respective polymers are listed in Table 3. Lower MIC and higher HC50 values are desirable.

Among the polymers of the 31 32 34 and 38 series the MIC values for P32c and P32d were the lowest of all microbes tested without inducing significant hemolytic effect or toxicity towards the red blood cells. The respective killing efficiency of both polymers on Gram positive Gram negative and fungi was then further evaluated. Using polymers P32c and P32d each at a concentration of MIC or 2.0 MIC 2 MIC at least 99.9 of bacteria were eradicated after 18 hours of incubation and at least 99.9 of fungi were eradicated after 42 hours as illustrated in the bar graphs of and . This result was also obtained in the case of multidrug resistant indicating the effectiveness of the polymers. The duration needed for the polymers to achieve 99.9 killing efficiency was also assessed using as the model microbes. As shown in overlapping pair of graphs more than 50 of the bacteria were killed after 30 minutes exposure to 2.0 MIC concentration of polymers P32c and P32d. A killing efficiency of 99.9 was achieved within 4 hours and 2 hours of treatment at MIC concentration and 2.0 MIC respectively. Based on this trend the duration is expected to further decrease at increased concentration of each polymer.

The respective MIC values of polymers P48a P48b P49a and P49b against S. and P. were similar to those of P32c and P32d. The presence of JEFFAMINE even at 10 mol did not appear to reduce the antibacterial activity of polymers. P48a without JEFFAMINE and P49b with 10 mol JEFFAMINE were selected to test for killing efficiency against P. and . The results are shown in series of bar graphs . The polyether chain of JEFFAMINE did not weaken the effectiveness of polymer against bacteria fungi. At least 99.9 of bacteria and fungi were eliminated after 18 hours incubation at MIC and 2.0 MIC concentrations.

Through MTT assay cytotoxicity of polymers P32c P32d P48a P48b P49a and P49b was evaluated using the HDF cell line. The resulting cell viability is depicted in bar graph . Whereas P32c and P32d were effective against the microbes they have shown to be toxic to the cells. Less than 80 cells remained viable after 6 hours of treatment with P32c at 31 mg L and with P32d at 16 mg L. On the contrary cell viability was clearly higher at these concentrations when the HDF cells were treated with the P48 and P49 polymers prepared with JEFFAMINE. In particular even at 1000 mg L more than 60 cells survived after treatment with P48b and P49b indicating that the presence of JEFFAMINE significantly reduced the cytotoxicity of polymers even at the high concentrations. This result demonstrates that the biodegradable polyamides are promising antimicrobial agents for use in consumer care products.

The polyamides of the 59 polymer series were similarly effective against the bacteria tested as compared to the polyamides of 48 and 49 series P48a versus P59a P49a versus P59c P48b versus P59e . Polyamide P59d and polyurea P60a had low MIC values against indicating that the urea groups in the backbone of the polymer might not adversely affect antimicrobial activity.

Antimicrobial polymers that were synthesized by condensation polymerization and quaternized show excellent water solubility and potent antimicrobial activity against a panel of clinically relevant microbes including multi drug resistant . The polymers contain amide bonds that remain intact in aqueous solution including weakly alkaline environments making them attractive for personal care products due to their longer shelf life. On the other hand the amide bond is enzymatically degradable which avoids eco toxicity. The use of succinate monomer improved cell viability at comparable antimicrobial potency relative to the 2 methylmalonate monomer compare P48a with P32c in at 250 mg L concentration . Further improvement in cell viability at comparable antimicrobial potency was obtained by the introduction of JEFFAMINE in an amount up to 10 mol compare P48a with P48b in at 1000 mg L concentration .

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting of the invention. As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms comprises and or comprising when used in this specification specify the presence of stated features integers steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps operations elements components and or groups thereof. When a range is used to express a possible value using two numerical limits X and Y e.g. a concentration of X ppm to Y ppm unless otherwise stated the value can be X Y or any number between X and Y.

The description of the present invention has been presented for purposes of illustration and description but is not intended to be exhaustive or limited to the invention in the form disclosed. Many modifications and variations will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention. The embodiments were chosen and described in order to best explain the principles of the invention and their practical application and to enable others of ordinary skill in the art to understand the invention.

