---

title: Semiconductor integrated circuit device and system with memory cell array
abstract: A semiconductor integrated circuit which can respond to changes of the amount of retained data at the time of standby is provided. The semiconductor integrated circuit comprises a logic circuit (logic) and plural SRAM modules. The plural SRAM modules perform power control independently of the logic circuit, and an independent power control is performed among the plural SRAM modules. Specifically, one terminal and the other terminal of a potential control circuit of each SRAM module are coupled to a cell array and a local power line, respectively. The local power line of one SRAM module and the local power line of the other SRAM module share a shared local power line. A power switch of one SRAM module and a power switch of the other SRAM module are coupled in common to the shared local power line.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09368194&OS=09368194&RS=09368194
owner: Renesas Electronics Corporation
number: 09368194
owner_city: Tokyo
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20150421
---
The present application claims priority from Japanese patent application JP 2009 211335 filed on Sep. 14 2009 and the content of which is hereby incorporated by reference into this application.

The present invention relates to a semiconductor integrated circuit and an operation method for the same especially to technology which is effective in responding to changes of the amount of retained data in a standby state.

According to miniaturization in a semiconductor manufacturing process the number of MOSFETs which are integrated in a single LSI LSI Large Scale Integrated circuits has increased with an accompanied increase of leakage current. Especially in the mobile use under the limited battery capacity a system on a chip SoC of this family needs to satisfy a demand for a strict leakage current. According to Non patent Document 1 cited below the effective method in such a situation is cutting off a power supply to a standby IP while maintaining a power supply to a necessary IP. Therefore the fine grained power gating system which employs many power domains is needed in order to realize a low power consumption LSI for a mobile SoC.

Patent Document 1 cited below describes an information processing device in which in order to manage to balance a low standby current by power gating and a high speed return from a standby mode by interruption a first area comprises a central processing unit and a peripheral circuit module and a second area comprises an internal memory and a backup register and current supply is controlled by a first power switch in the first area and current supply is controlled by a second power switch in the second area. When shifting to a standby mode internal information is evacuated to the internal memory or the backup register then the first power switch is set to an off state to stop current supply to the first area and the second power switch is set to an off state to maintain the internal information evacuated to the second area.

Patent Document 2 cited below describes that in order to reduce the leakage current of an SRAM circuit a switch a diode coupling MOS transistor and a resistor are coupled in parallel between a source line to which a source electrode of a drive MOS transistor is coupled and the ground potential line. At the time of standby the switch coupled between the source line and the ground potential line is controlled into an off state and the potential of the source line is set to a level higher than the ground potential by the relation of the leakage current of the memory cell the diode coupling MOS transistor and the resistor accordingly the leakage current is reduced. A switch MOS transistor is coupled between the ground potential and the ground potential side power source line of the peripheral circuit of SRAM except a word driver. The switch MOS transistor is controlled into an off state by a control signal at the time of standby. Therefore the potential of the ground potential side power source line of the peripheral circuit of SRAM rises and the leakage current of the peripheral circuit at the time of standby is reduced.

Patent Document 3 cited below describes that a leakage current reduction circuit is coupled between a low potential terminal of a latch circuit or an SRAM cell comprising a CMOS and a ground potential. The leakage current reduction circuit comprises an NMOS switching transistor a control PMOS transistor and a control NMOS transistor. A drain to source path of the NMOS switching transistor is coupled between the low potential terminal and the ground potential. A source a gate and a drain of the control PMOS transistor are coupled to a power supply voltage a standby signal terminal and a gate of the NMOS switching transistor respectively. A drain a gate and a source of the control NMOS transistor are coupled to the low potential terminal a gate of the NMOS switching transistor and the standby signal terminal respectively. At the time of operation of the circuit in response to a low level signal of the standby signal terminal the control PMOS transistor the control NMOS transistor and the NMOS switching transistor are set to an on state an off state and an on state respectively and the low potential terminal is coupled to the ground potential through a low impedance. Therefore the latch circuit or SRAM cell comprising a CMOS performs a normal operation. At the time of standby in response to a high level signal of the standby signal terminal the control PMOS transistor and the control NMOS transistor are set to an off state and an on state respectively. The NMOS switching transistor operates like an MOS diode with the leakage current of the latch circuit or the SRAM cell comprising a CMOS as a bias current thereby keeping the potential of the low potential terminal to a constant potential higher than the ground potential. Accordingly the leakage current at the time of standby is reduced.

Patent Document 4 cited below describes that in order to manage to balance a static noise margin and a write in margin even at a low power source voltage in a static type RAM a voltage supplying circuit is coupled between a power supply voltage line and a memory cell power source line. At the time of writing a high level control signal is supplied to a gate of a P channel MOSFET of the voltage supplying circuit and the P channel MOSFET is set to an off state accordingly a voltage of the memory cell power source line is reduced. Therefore the static noise margin is reduced and the write in margin is improved.

The present inventors were engaged in research and development of a semiconductor integrated circuit with low power consumption in advance of the present invention.

A semiconductor integrated circuit illustrated in comprises a logic circuit logic static type RAMs SRAM SRAM SRAM and power switches PWSW and PWSW. Each of the static type RAMs SRAM SRAM SRAM comprises a cell array cell array a peripheral circuit peripheral a source line potential control circuit arvss control and peripheral circuit power switches PESW PESW and PESW.

Since a control signal cnt falls at the time of power gating a power switch PWSW coupled to the logic circuit logic and the static type RAM SRAM is set to an off state. Therefore potential of a local power source vssl inside a power source domain rises to a power supply potential Vdd and the logic circuit logic and the static type RAM SRAM which are coupled to the local power source vssl are brought to a cut off state. Therefore all stored data of the static type RAM SRAM coupled to the local power source vssl are destroyed. Therefore data which needs to be saved is stored in other static type RAMs SRAM SRAM coupled to another local power source vssm and another power switch PWSW is maintained in an on state also at the time of power gating. As a result the another local power source vssm is maintained at a ground potential Vss.

On the other hand at the time of power gating by a control circuit RSCNT of the peripheral circuit peripheral of the other static type RAMs SRAM SRAM coupled to the other local power source vssm the peripheral circuit power switches PESW and PESW are controlled into an off state and the source line potential control circuit arvss control sets potential of the cell array source lines arvss arvss of the cell arrays cell array of the other static type RAMs SRAM SRAM to a little higher level than the ground potential Vss. Therefore due to the off state of the peripheral circuit power switches PESW PESW it is possible to cut off a leakage current of the peripheral circuits peripheral other than a control circuit RSCNT and a part of circuits such as a word driver. Furthermore due to the potential of a little higher level than the ground potential Vss of the cell array source lines arvss and arvss it is possible to reduce current of the cell array cell array of the other static type RAMs SRAM SRAM to such an extent that retained data of the cell array cell array are not destroyed.

In the cell array cell array and the source line potential control circuit arvss control are illustrated and the peripheral circuit peripheral and the peripheral circuit power switch PESW are also illustrated. As illustrated in the source line potential control circuit arvss control comprises a power switch SW a resistor RN and a diode coupling MOS transistor MN which are coupled in parallel between a cell array source line arvss and the ground potential Vss. In response to falling of a control signal rs the peripheral circuit power switch PESW is set to an off state and a leakage current of the peripheral circuit peripheral other than the control circuit RSCNT and a word driver is cut off and the power switch SW of the source line potential control circuit arvss control is also set to an off state. As a result due to a current path through the resistor RN and the diode coupling MOS transistor MN of the source line potential control circuit arvss control the potential of the cell array source line arvss is set to a potential of a little higher level than the ground potential Vss and current of the cell array cell array of the other static type RAM SRAM is reduced to such an extent that retained data of the cell array cell array are not destroyed.

Since control signals rsb rsb and rsb tall when control signals rs rs and rs rise the peripheral circuit power switches PESW PESW and PESW are set to an off state. In this way by setting the peripheral circuit power switches PESW PESW and PESW to an off state a current path from the peripheral circuit peripheral of each of the SRAM modules SRAM SRAM SRAM to the ground potential Vss is cut off and the potential of the local power lines vssp vssp and vssp of the peripheral circuit peripheral of the SRAM modules SRAM SRAM SRAM rises to the power supply voltage Vdd or its neighborhood. However control circuits rscnt RSCNT which generate control signals rsb rsb rsb for controlling the peripheral circuit power switches PESW PESW and PESW are coupled not to the local power lines vssp vssp and vssp but to the other local power sources vssl vssm directly because it is necessary to output a low level signal. In addition a circuit which needs to output a low level signal like a word driver is coupled to the other local power sources vssl and vssm directly in a similar way. In response to falling of the control signals rsb rsb and rsb the source line potential control circuit arvss control rises voltage of cell array source lines arvss arvss and arvss. However the voltage is risen to such a level that the retained data of the cell array cell array of SRAM SRAM and SRAM are not destroyed for example hundreds of mV . Accordingly it become possible to reduce a leakage current of SRAM SRAM and SRAM while keeping the retained data of SRAM SRAM and SRAM.

Furthermore when the logic circuit logic of a logic circuit part does not need to operate a power supply to the logic circuit logic is cut off by setting the control signal cnt to a low level to bring the power switch PWSW to an off state. As a result the local power line vssl of the logic circuit logic goes up to the power supply voltage Vdd or its neighborhood. Since the cell array source line arvss of the cell array cell array of the static type RAM SRAM coupled to the local power line vssl goes up to the power supply voltage Vdd or its neighborhood at this time the static type RAM SRAM cannot hold the retained data any more.

Furthermore when a control signal cnt is set at a low level in order to reduce power consumption a deep standby state is realized. The power switch PWSW coupled to the other static type RAMs SRAM SRAM is set to an off state and the other local power source vssm also goes up to the power supply voltage Vdd or its neighborhood. As a result it becomes possible to reduce a leakage current of the other static type RAMs SRAM SRAM .

As explained above it is possible to reduce the consumption current of a semiconductor integrated circuit which comprises built in plural SRAM modules like a system on a chip SoC with the control system illustrated in through . However according to the control system illustrated in the plural SRAM modules are brought to a deep standby state collectively. According to the examination performed by the present inventors it has been clarified that in a semiconductor integrated circuit like a system on a chip SoC the amount of retained data of plural SRAM modules in a deep standby state changes greatly depending on an operating state or an operation program. It is also clarified by the examination by the present inventors that it is difficult for the control system illustrated in to respond to changes in the amount of retained data in a deep standby state.

The present invention has been made as a result of the examination described above by the present inventors in advance of the present invention.

Therefore the present invention intends to provide a semiconductor integrated circuit which can respond to changes in the amount of retained data in a standby state.

The above and other purposes and new features will become clear from description of the specification and the accompanying drawings of the present invention.

That is a typical embodiment of the present invention is a semiconductor integrated circuit comprising a logic circuit logic and plural SRAM modules SRAM SRAM which can store data related to the logic circuit.

The plural SRAM modules SRAM SRAM can perform power control independently of the logic circuit logic .

Specifically one terminal arvss and another terminal vssm of a potential control circuit arvss control of each SRAM module of the plural SRAM modules SRAM SRAM are coupled to the cell array cell array and a local power line vssm respectively.

A local power line vssm of one SRAM module of the plural SRAM modules SRAM SRAM and a local power line vssm of another SRAM module of the plural SRAM modules SRAM SRAM share a shared local power line vssm .

A power switch PWSW of the one SRAM module of the plural SRAM modules SRAM SRAM and a power switch PWSW of the another SRAM module of the plural SRAM modules SRAM SRAM are coupled in common to the shared local power line vssm refer to .

The following explains briefly an effect obtained by the typical inventions disclosed in the present application.

That is according to the present invention it is possible to provide a semiconductor integrated circuit which can respond to changes in the amount of retained data in a standby state.

First a summary is explained about typical embodiments of the invention disclosed in the present application. A reference symbol in parentheses referring to a component of the drawing in the summary explanation about the typical embodiments only illustrates what is included in the concept of the component to which the reference symbol is attached.

 1 A typical embodiment of the present invention is a semiconductor integrated circuit comprising a logic circuit logic and plural SRAM modules SRAM SRAM which can store data related to the logic circuit.

The plural SRAM modules SRAM SRAM can perform power control independently of the logic circuit logic .

According to the embodiment it is possible to respond to changes in the amount of retained data in a standby state.

A semiconductor integrated circuit according to a preferred embodiment further comprises another SRAM modules SRAM which can perform power control in common with the logic circuit logic .

Before the logic circuit logic and the another SRAM module SRAM are controlled in common to the power gating state data of the another SRAM module SRAM can be evacuated to at least one SRAM module of the plural SRAM modules SRAM SRAM refer to and .

A semiconductor integrated circuit according to another preferred embodiment comprises plural power switches PWSW PWSW PWSW .

Each SRAM module of the another SRAM module SRAM and the plural SRAM modules SRAM SRANM is coupled with each power switch of the plural power switches PWSW PWSW PWSW in series.

The each SRAM module can be controlled to the power gating state by controlling the each power switch of the plural power switches PWSW PWSW PWSW to an off state.

The each SRAM module is controlled to an active state and a standby state by controlling the each power switch of the plural power switches PWSW PWSW PWSW to an on state refer to and .

According to a more preferred embodiment the each SRAM module comprises a peripheral circuit peripheral a cell array cell array and a potential control circuit arvss control .

In the each SRAM module the cell array cell array and the potential control circuit arvss control are coupled in series and the series coupling of the cell array cell array and the potential control circuit arvss control is coupled with the peripheral circuit peripheral in parallel.

According to another more preferred embodiment in the each SRAM module controlled to the active state an inter terminal voltage arvss vssm between one terminal arvss and another terminal vssm of the potential control circuit arvss control is controlled to a state of a low voltage a power supply voltage Vdd Vss is supplied to the peripheral circuit peripheral and the power supply voltage Vdd Vss is supplied to the cell array cell array by the potential control circuit arvss control .

In the each SRAM module controlled to the standby state the inter terminal voltage arvss vssm of the potential control circuit arvss control is controlled to a state of voltage higher than the low voltage the power supply voltage Vdd Vss to the peripheral circuit peripheral is cut off and an operating voltage lower than the power supply voltage Vdd Vss is supplied to the cell array cell array by the potential control circuit arvss control .

In a specific embodiment one terminal arvss and another terminal vssm of the potential control circuit arvss control of each of the SRAM modules are coupled to the cell array cell array and a local power line vssm respectively.

A local power line vssm of one SRAM module of the plural SRAM modules SRAM SRAM and a local power line vssm of another SRAM module of the plural SRAM modules SRAM SRAM share a shared local power line vssm .

A power switch PWSW of the one SRAM module of the plural SRAM modules SRAM SRAM and a power switch PWSW of the another SRAM module of the plural SRAM modules SRAM SRAM are coupled in common to the shared local power line vssm refer to .

In a more specific embodiment a P well which is used for formation of plural N channel MOS transistors of the cell array cell array of the one SRAM module of the plural SRAM modules SRAM SRAM and a P well which is used for formation of plural N channel MOS transistors of the cell array cell array of the another SRAM module of the plural SRAM modules SRAM SRAM are formed by a common P well refer to .

In another more specific embodiment between the one terminal arvss and the another terminal vssm of the potential control circuit arvss control of the each SRAM module a voltage drop element RN MN which changes the inter terminal voltage arvss vssm to the high voltage state and a control switch SW which changes the inter terminal voltage arvss vssm to the low voltage state are coupled refer to .

In a different more specific embodiment the cell array cell array of the each SRAM module comprises plural SRAM memory cells MC comprising one pair of drive N channel MOS transistors MNDL MNDR and one pair of load P channel MOS transistors MPUL MPUR and one pair of transfer N channel MOS transistors MNSL MNSR refer to .

A semiconductor integrated circuit according to the most specific embodiment comprises plural data processing units CPU CPU Video Audio .

Each data processing unit of the plural data processing units comprises the logic circuit logic and the plural SRAM modules SRAM SRAM refer to .

 2 A typical embodiment of another viewpoint of the present invention is an operation method of a semiconductor integrated circuit comprising a logic circuit logic and plural SRAM modules SRAM SRAM which can store data related to the logic circuit. The operation method concerned comprises the following steps refer to and .

That is a step of performing a power control for the logic circuit logic independently of the plural SRAM modules SRAM SRAM .

According to the embodiment it is possible to respond to changes in the amount of retained data in a standby state.

Next embodiments are explained further in full detail. In the entire drawings for explaining the preferred embodiments of the present invention the same symbol is attached to a component which has the same function and the repeated explanation thereof is omitted.

A semiconductor integrated circuit according to Embodiment 1 of the present invention illustrated in is different from the semiconductor integrated circuit illustrated in examined by the present inventors in advance of the present invention in the following points.

That is in the semiconductor integrated circuit according to Embodiment 1 of the present invention illustrated in a power switch PWSW is coupled between a local power source vssm of an SRAM module SRAM and a ground potential Vss a control signal cnt is supplied to a control gate of the power switch PWSW a power switch PWSW is coupled between a local power source vssm of an SRAM module SRAM and the ground potential Vss and a control signal cnt is supplied to a control gate of the power switch PWSW.

Inside the SRAM module SRAM of the semiconductor integrated circuit according to Embodiment 1 of the present invention illustrated in a peripheral circuit power switch PEWS is coupled between a peripheral circuit peripheral and the local power source vssm and a source line potential control circuit arvss control is coupled between a cell array cell array and the local power source vssm. A control signal rsb of a control circuit RSCNT of the peripheral circuit peripheral is supplied to a control gate of the peripheral circuit power switch PEWS and to a control input terminal of the source line potential control circuit arvss control .

Inside the SRAM module SRAM of the semiconductor integrated circuit according to Embodiment 1 of the present invention illustrated in a peripheral circuit power switch PEWS is coupled between a peripheral circuit peripheral and the local power source vssm and a source line potential control circuit arvss control is coupled between a cell array cell array and the local power source vssm. A control signal rsb of a control circuit RSCNT of a peripheral circuit peripheral is supplied to a control gate of the peripheral circuit power switch PEWS and to a control input terminal of a source line potential control circuit arvss control .

Inside the SRAM module SRAM of the semiconductor integrated circuit according to Embodiment 1 of the present invention illustrated in as is the case with the SRAM module SRAM of the semiconductor integrated circuit illustrated in a peripheral circuit power switch PEWS is coupled between a peripheral circuit peripheral and the local power source vssl and a source line potential control circuit arvss control is coupled between a cell array cell array and the local power source vssl. A control signal rsb of a control circuit RSCNT of the peripheral circuit peripheral is supplied to a control gate of the peripheral circuit power switch PEWS and to a control input terminal of the source line potential control circuit arvss control .

The local power source vssl of the SRAM module SRAM of the semiconductor integrated circuit according to Embodiment 1 of the present invention illustrated in is coupled to a power switch PWSW and a logic circuit logic as is the case with the SRAM module SRAM of the semiconductor integrated circuit illustrated in .

In the cell array cell array the source line potential control circuit arvss control and the power switch PWSW are illustrated. As illustrated in the source line potential control circuit arvss control comprises a power switch NSW a resistor REST and a diode coupling MOS transistor DIOD which are coupled in parallel between a cell array source line arvss and a local power source vssm.

When executing write operation or read operation to one SRAM module of three SRAM modules SRAM SRAM SRAM in the semiconductor integrated circuit according to Embodiment 1 of the present invention illustrated in one of three control signals rsb rsb and rsb is set at a high level and at the same time one of three control signals cnt cnt and cnt is set at a high level.

In an SRAM module which is brought to an active state the power switch PWSW is set to an on state by the control signal cnt and in response to rising of the control signal rsb of the control circuit RSCNT of the peripheral circuit peripheral the peripheral circuit power switch PESW is set to an on state and the peripheral circuit peripheral is activated. The power switch NSW of the source line potential control circuit arvss control is also set to an on state. Accordingly by the source line potential control circuit arvss control the potential of the cell array source line arvss is set to the ground potential Vss therefore it becomes possible to execute the write operation or the read operation to the cell array cell array of the SRAM module which is brought to an active state.

In the semiconductor integrated circuit according to Embodiment 1 of the present invention illustrated in when the control signal cnt is set at a low level the power switch PWSW is set to an off state. Therefore the logic circuit logic and the SRAM module SRAM are brought to a deep standby state. When data of the SRAM module SRAM needs to be saved the data of the SRAM module SRAM is evacuated to other SRAM modules SRAM SRAM before the SRAM module SRAM is brought to the deep standby state. When the control signal cnt is set at a low level the power switch PWSW is set to an off state accordingly the SRAM module SRAM is brought to a deep standby state. When data of the SRAM module SRAM needs to be saved the data of the SRAM module SRAM is evacuated to other SRAM modules SRAM SRAM before the SRAM module SRAM is brought to the deep standby state. Similarly when the control signal cnt is set at a low level the power switch PWSW is set to an off state accordingly the SRAM module SRAM is brought to a deep standby state. When data of the SRAM module SRAM needs to be saved the data of the SRAM module SRAM is evacuated to other SRAM modules SRAM SRAM before the SRAM module SRAM is brought to the deep standby state. In this way according to the semiconductor integrated circuit according to Embodiment 1 of the present invention illustrated in it is possible to change the amount of retained data in a deep standby state.

In the semiconductor integrated circuit according to Embodiment 1 of the present invention illustrated in when three control signals cnt cnt and cnt are set at a high level and one of three control signals rsb rsb and rsb is set at a low level one of three SRAM modules SRAM SRAM SRAM is brought to a standby state. In an SRAM module which is brought to a standby state in response to falling of the control signal rsb of the control circuit RSCNT of the peripheral circuit peripheral the peripheral circuit power switch PESW is set to an off state and a leakage current of the peripheral circuits peripheral other than the control circuit RSCNT is cut off. The power switch NSW of the source line potential control circuit arvss control is also set to an off state. Therefore due to a current path through the resistor RESI and the diode coupling MOS transistor DIOD of the source line potential control circuit arvss control the potential of the cell array source line arvss is set at a potential of a little higher level than the ground potential Vss and current of the cell array cell array of the SRAM module in the standby state is reduced to such an extent that retained data of the cell array cell array are not destroyed.

The SRAM module illustrated in comprises in addition to cell arrays ARRAY BIT ARRAY BIT n and source line potential control circuits ARVSS CNT ARVSS CNT n a control unit CONTROL comprising a control circuit a word driver WORD DRIVER which drives a word line I O units IO IO n which output and input data and power switches PWSW PWSW n .

The cell arrays ARRAY BIT ARRAY BIT n comprise plural memory cells MC coupled to plural word lines wl wl m and plural complementary bit line pairs bb bt bb and bt . The word driver WORD DRIVER comprises plural CMOS inverters coupled to the plural word lines wl wl m . The I O units IO IO n comprise plural selectors SELECTOR coupled to the plural complementary bit line pairs bb bt bb and bt and plural sense amplifiers SA . Each of the source line potential control circuits ARVSS CNT ARVSS CNT n comprises a power switch NSW and a resistor RESI and a diode coupling MOS transistor DIOD which are coupled in parallel between a cell array source line arvss and a local power source vssm as is the case with . The control unit CONTROL comprises a decoder DECODER which drives the plural CMOS inverters of the word driver WORD DRIVER and the plural selectors SELECTOR of the I O units IO IO n in response to address signals a a k . The control unit CONTROL comprises a CMOS inverter which generates a control signal rsb to be supplied to a control gate of the power switch NSW of the source line potential control circuits ARVSS CNT ARVSS CNT n and a CMOS inverter which generates a control signal cnt to be supplied to a control gate of the power switches PWSW PWSW n .

In a semiconductor integrated circuit like a system on a chip SoC in order to satisfy a user s various demands a compiled RAM CRAM in which various combination of element components of SRAM is possible is employed. In the compiled RAM CRAM illustrated in the source line potential control circuits ARVSS CNT ARVSS CNT n and the power switches PWSW PWSW n are arranged in units of bit n . Accordingly in the compiled RAM CRAM illustrated in it becomes possible to respond easily a user s demand by changing the number of columns of the memory cell MC and the number of the I O units IO IO n depending on the number of bits which satisfies the user s demand. Namely in the compiled RAM CRAM of the source line potential control circuits ARVSS CNT ARVSS CNT n and the power switches PWSW PWSW n are arranged in units of bit n therefore even when the number of bit of the compiled RAM CRAM changes the number of the source line potential control circuits and the number of the power switches are increased or decreased by responding automatically to the change in the number of total memory cells. Therefore it is possible to keep appropriately the potential of the cell array source line arvss.

The compiled RAM CRAM illustrated in adopts a two column multiplex system in which one I O line q q n is shared by two memory cell columns. Naturally the number of column multiplexes can be set as an arbitrary number.

The source line potential control circuit arvss control illustrated in comprises a resistor RESI an NMOS switching transistor MDIOD SW a control PMOS transistor MPG and a control NMOS transistor MNG. The resistor RESI and the NMOS switching transistor MDIOD SW are coupled between the cell array source line arvss and the local power source vssm. A drain to source path of the NMOS switching transistor MDIOD SW is coupled between the cell array source line arvss and the local power source vssm. A source a gate and a drain of the control PMOS transistor MPG are coupled to a power supply voltage gcnt a standby signal terminal rs and a gate of the NMOS switching transistor MDIOD SW respectively. A drain a source and a gate of the control NMOS transistor MNG are coupled to the cell array source line arvss a gate of the NMOS switching transistor MDIOD SW and the standby signal terminal rs respectively. At the time of operation of the circuit responding to a low level signal of the standby signal terminal rs the control PMOS transistor MPG the control NMOS transistor MNG and the NMOS switching transistor MDIOD SW are set to an on state an off state and an on state respectively and the cell array source line arvss is coupled to the local power source vssm through low impedance accordingly the cell array cell array performs the normal operation. At the time of standby responding to a high level signal of the standby signal terminal rs the control PMOS transistor MPG and the control NMOS transistor MNG are set to an off state and an on state respectively. The NMOS switching transistor MDIOD SW operates like an MOS diode with a leakage current of the cell array cell array serving as a bias current. Accordingly the potential of the cell array source line arvss is held to a constant potential higher than the local power source vssm thereby reducing the leakage current at the time of standby.

An SRAM module illustrated in is different from the SRAM module illustrated in in the point that the source line potential control circuit arvss control of the SRAM module illustrated in adopts the circuit configuration of instead of the circuit configuration of . In the SRAM module illustrated in one control PMOS transistor MPG and one control NMOS transistor MNG which drive plural NMOS switching transistors MDIOD SW in plural source line potential control circuits arvss control are arranged at one place inside the control unit CONTROL .

As described above according to the semiconductor integrated circuit according to Embodiment 1 of the present invention explained with reference to through when the first power switch PWSW coupled to the first SRAM module SRAM is controlled to an off state by the first control signal cnt at a low level the first local power line vssl is set at a high level accordingly the logic circuit logic and the first SRAM module SRAM are brought to a deep standby state. In the present state when the second power switch PWSW coupled to the second SRAM module SRAM is controlled to an on state by the second control signal cnt at a high level the second local power line vssm is set at a low level accordingly the second SRAM module SRAM is brought to an active state or a standby state by the control signal rsb. Also in the present state when the third power switch PWSW coupled to the third SRAM module SRAM is controlled to an on state by the third control signal cnt at a high level the third local power line vssm is set at a low level accordingly the third SRAM module SRAM is brought to an active state or a standby state by the control signal rsb. Therefore according to the semiconductor integrated circuit according to Embodiment 1 of the present invention explained with reference to through it becomes possible to respond to changes in the amount of retained data of SRAM in a deep standby state.

In the semiconductor integrated circuit according to Embodiment 1 of the present invention explained in through it is possible to replace N channel MOS transistors serving as the power switches PWSW PWSW and PWSW with P channel MOS transistors and to change the coupling point of the power switches PWSW PWSW and PWSW from the side of the ground potential Vss to the side of the power supply voltage Vdd. In the case the local power lines vssl vssm and vssm are also changed from the side of the ground potential Vss to the local power lines vddl vddm and vddm on the side of the power supply voltage Vdd. Furthermore N channel MOS transistors serving as the peripheral circuit power switches PESW PESW and PESW are also replaced with P channel MOS transistors and the coupling point of the peripheral circuit power switches PESW PESW and PESW is also changed to between the local power lines vddl vddm and vddm on the side of the power supply voltage Vdd and the peripheral circuit peripheral . The coupling point of the source line potential control circuit arvss control is also changed to between the local power lines vddl vddm and vddm on the side of the power supply voltage Vdd and the cell array cell array .

However in the semiconductor integrated circuit according to Embodiment 1 of the present invention explained in through it is necessary that the first power switch PWSW is exclusively employed for the first SRAM module SRAM the second power switch PWSW is exclusively employed for the second SRAM module SRAM and the third power switch PWSW is exclusively employed for the third SRAM module SRAM and that the first local power line vssl the second local power line vssm and the third local power line vssm are electrically separated from each other. Since each power switch of three power switches PWSW PWSW and PWSW is exclusively employed to each SRAM module of three SRAM modules SRAM SRAM SRAM an element size of each power switch needs to be set up corresponding to the operating current of each SRAM module. Since the first local power line vssl the second local power line vssm and the third local power line vssm need to be electrically separated from each other each of P well regions which are used for formation of plural N channel MOS transistors of each SRAM module of three SRAM modules SRAM SRAM SRAM needs to be electrically separated from each other.

As illustrated in the first local power line vssl for the logic circuit logic and the first SRAM module SRAM the second local power line vssm for the second SRAM module SRAM and the third local power line vssm for the third SRAM module SRAM are electrically separated from each other. The first power switch PWSW employed exclusively for the first SRAM module SRAM and the logic circuit logic is coupled between the first local power line vssl and the ground potential Vss. The second power switch PWSW employed exclusively for the second SRAM module SRAM is coupled between the second local power line vssm and the ground potential Vss. The third power switch PWSW employed exclusively for the third SRAM module SRAM is coupled between the third local power line vssm and the ground potential Vss.

Plural N channel MOS transistors for the first power switch PWSW are formed in a first power switch area PWSW AREA plural N channel MOS transistors for the second power switch PWSW are formed in a second power switch area PWSW AREA and plural N channel MOS transistors for the third power switch PWSW are formed in a third power switch area PWSW AREA.

The logic circuit logic and the plural N channel MOS transistors of the first SRAM module SRAM coupled to the first local power line vssl are formed in a first P well region WELL AREA the plural N channel MOS transistors of the second SRAM module SRAM coupled to the second local power line vssm are formed in a second P well region WELL AREA and the plural N channel MOS transistors of the third SRAM module SRAM coupled to the third local power line vssm are formed in a third P well region WELL AREA. As illustrated in on the main surface of a semiconductor chip of the semiconductor integrated circuit it is necessary to electrically separate the first P well region WELL AREA and the second P well region WELL AREA by an N type area which has the minimum separation space wspace. It is necessary to electrically separate the second P well region WELL AREA and the third P well region WELL AREA by an N type area which has the minimum separation space wspace. Therefore the semiconductor integrated circuit according to Embodiment 1 of the present invention illustrated in has a drawback that the semiconductor chip area becomes comparatively large.

The above is about a case of a semiconductor integrated circuit of triple well structure. In the case of a semiconductor integrated circuit of double well structure an N well region of a power gating area where cutting off by a power switch is different from the side of the power supply voltage Vdd needs to be separated by a P well region. Therefore also in the semiconductor integrated circuit of double well structure there is a drawback that the semiconductor chip area becomes comparatively large as is the case with the triple well structure.

A semiconductor integrated circuit according to Embodiment 2 of the present invention explained below will remove the present drawback.

A semiconductor integrated circuit according to Embodiment 2 of the present invention illustrated in is different from the semiconductor integrated circuit according to Embodiment 1 of the present invention illustrated in in the following points.

That is in the semiconductor integrated circuit according to Embodiment 2 of the present invention illustrated in a local power line of the second SRAM module SRAM and a local power line of the third SRAM module SRAM share the second local power line vssm. Furthermore the second power switch PWSW and the third power switch PWSW which are coupled between the shared second local power line vssm and the ground potential Vss are shared by the second SRAM module SRAM and the third SRAM module SRAM .

Also in the semiconductor integrated circuit according to Embodiment 2 of the present invention illustrated in a local power line of the logic circuit logic and a local power line of the first SRAM module SRAM share a first local power line vssl. Furthermore the first power switch PWSW coupled between the shared first local power line vssl and the ground potential Vss is shared by the logic circuit logic and the first SRAM module SRAM .

In the first SRAM module SRAM a peripheral circuit power switch PESW is coupled between a peripheral circuit peripheral and the first local power line vssl and a source line potential control circuit which comprises an active power switch SW a resistor RN a diode coupling MOS transistor MN and a switch MSW is coupled between a cell array source line arvss of a cell array cell array and the first local power line vssl. A parallel coupling body of the resistor RN and the diode coupling MOS transistor MN are coupled to the switch MSW in series and the switch MSW and the first power switch PWSW are coupled in series.

Also in the second SRAM module SRAM a peripheral circuit power switch PESW is coupled between a peripheral circuit peripheral and the second local power line vssm and a source line potential control circuit which comprises an active power switch SW a resistor RN a diode coupling MOS transistor MN and a switch MSW is coupled between a cell array source line arvss of a cell array cell array and the second local power line vssm. A parallel coupling body of the resistor RN and the diode coupling MOS transistor MN are coupled to the switch MSW in series and the switch MSW and the second power switch PWSW are coupled in series.

Also in the third SRAM module SRAM a peripheral circuit power switch PESW is coupled between a peripheral circuit peripheral and the second local power line vssm and a source line potential control circuit which comprises an active power switch SW a resistor RN a diode coupling MOS transistor MN and a switch MSW is coupled between a cell array source line arvss of a cell array cell array and the second local power line vssm. A parallel coupling body of the resistor RN and the diode coupling MOS transistor MN are coupled to the switch MSW in series and the switch MSW and the third power switch PWSW are coupled in series.

Since it suffices that the switches MSW MSW and MSW of the source line potential control circuit flow a small leakage current at the time of standby it is possible to make the size of the switches small to suppress an overhead of the semiconductor chip occupied area.

When a control signal cnt is set at a high level in order to bring the logic circuit logic and the first SRAM module SRAM into an active state the first power switch PWSW is set to an on state and the potential of the first local power line vssl to which a logic circuit logic and the first SRAM module SRAM are coupled is set at the ground potential Vss. Furthermore a control signal rsb is set at a high level and the peripheral circuit power switch PESW and the active power switch SW are set to an on state accordingly a peripheral circuit peripheral and a cell array cell array of the first SRAM module SRAM are brought to an active state. Therefore in the present active sate it is possible for the logic circuit logic to perform logic operation and it is also possible to execute write operation or read operation of the first SRAM module SRAM .

When the control signal cnt is set at a high level in order to bring the logic circuit logic and the first SRAM module SRAM into a standby state the first power switch PWSW is set to an on state and the potential of the first local power line vssl to which the logic circuit logic and the first SRAM module SRAM are coupled is set at the ground potential Vss. The control signal rsb is set at a low level and the peripheral circuit power switch PESW and the active power switch SW are set to an off state. Furthermore a control signal rs is set at a high level and the switch MSW of the source line potential control circuit is set to an on state. Therefore the potential of the cell array source line arvss of the cell array cell array of the first SRAM module SRAM is set at a level a little higher than the ground potential Vss. Accordingly it becomes possible to reduce current of the cell array cell array to such an extent that the retained data of the cell array cell array are not destroyed.

When the control signal cnt is set at a low level in order to bring the logic circuit logic and the first SRAM module SRAM into an array cut off state the first power switch PWSW is set to an off state and the potential of the first local power line vssl to which the logic circuit logic and the first SRAM module SRAM are coupled is set at a level approximately near the power supply voltage Vdd and the control signal rsb is set at a low level and the peripheral circuit power switch PESW and the active power switch SW are set to an off state. Furthermore the control signal rs is set at a low level and the switch MSW of the source line potential control circuit is set to an off state.

When control signals cnt and cnt are set at a high level in order to bring the second and the third SRAM module SRAM SRAM into an active state the second the third power switch PWSW and PWSW are set to an on state. Therefore the potential of the second local power line vssm to which the second and the third SRAM module SRAM SRAM are coupled is set at the ground potential Vss. Furthermore At least one of the control signals rsb and rsb is set at a high level and at least one of the peripheral circuit power switches PESW and PESW and at least one of the active power switches SW and SW are set to an on state. Accordingly the peripheral circuit peripheral and the cell array cell array of at least one of the second and the third SRAM module SRAM SRAM are set to an active state. Therefore it becomes possible to execute write operation or read operation to the SRAM module in the active state.

When the control signals cnt and cnt are set at a high level in order to bring one of the second and the third SRAM module SRAM SRAM into a standby state the second and the third power switch PWSW and PWSW are set to an on state. Accordingly the potential of the second local power line vssm to which the second and the third SRAM module SRAM SRAM are coupled is set at the ground potential Vss. Furthermore one of the control signals rsb and rsb is set at a low level and one of the peripheral circuit power switches PESW and PESW and one of the active power switches SW and SW are set to an off state. Furthermore one of the control signals rs and rs is set at a high level and one of the switches MSW and MSW of the source line potential control circuit is set to an on state. Therefore the potential of one of the cell array source lines arvss and arvss of the cell array cell array of one of the second and the third SRAM module SRAM SRAM is set at a level a little higher than the ground potential Vss accordingly It becomes possible to reduce current of the cell array cell array to such an extent that the retained data of the cell array cell array are not destroyed. In the standby state of one of the second and the third SRAM module to an SRAM module in an active state the control signals rs and rs may be set at either a high level or a low level without problems.

One of the control signals cnt and cnt is set at a low level in order to cut off one array of the second and the third SRAM module SRAM SRAM . Furthermore one of or both of the control signals rsb and rsb are set at a low level and one of or both of the peripheral circuit power switches PESW and PESW and one of or both of the active power switches SW and SW are set to an off state. Furthermore only one of the control signals rs and rs is set at a low level and only one of the switches MSW and MSW of the source line potential control circuit is set to an off state. An SRAM module for which array cut off is not performed may be set either in a standby state or in an active state without problems.

When both control signals rsb and rsb are set at a low level in order to bring both the second and the third SRAM module SRAM SRAM into an array cut off state both peripheral circuit power switches PESW and PESW and both active power switches SW and SW are set to an off state. Furthermore both control signals rs and rs are set at a low level and both deep standby switches MSW and MSW of the source line potential control circuit are set to an off state.

When both control signals cnt and cnt are set at a low level both the second and the third power switch PWSW and PWSW are set to an off state. Accordingly the potential of the second local power line vssm to which the second and the third SRAM module SRAM SRAM are coupled is set at a level near the power supply voltage Vdd due to a leakage current of the second and the third SRAM module.

As described above when practicing the chip layout of three SRAM modules SRAM SRAM and SRAM of the semiconductor integrated circuit according to Embodiment 2 of the present invention illustrated in it becomes possible to omit an N type area which has the minimum separation space wspace between the second P well region WELL AREA and the third P well region WELL AREA as illustrated in the layout pattern of . The reason is as follows. In the semiconductor integrated circuit according to Embodiment 2 of the present invention illustrated in the local power line of the second SRAM module SRAM and the local power line of the third SRAM module SRAM share the second local power line vssm therefore it is not necessary to electrically separate the second P well region WELL AREA and the third P well region WELL AREA. As a result according to the semiconductor integrated circuit according to Embodiment 2 of the present invention illustrated in it becomes possible to remove the drawback that the semiconductor chip area becomes comparatively large in the semiconductor integrated circuit according to Embodiment 1 of the present invention illustrated in .

Furthermore according to the semiconductor integrated circuit according to Embodiment 2 of the present invention illustrated in the second power switch PWSW and the third power switch PWSW which are coupled between the shared second local power line vssm and the ground potential Vss are shared by the second SRAM module SRAM and the third SRAM module SRAM . Therefore each element size of the second power switch PWSW and the third power switch PWSW does not need to be set up corresponding to each operating current of the second SRAM module SRAM and the third SRAM module SRAM . As a result it is possible to reduce each element size of the second power switch PWSW and the third power switch PWSW in the semiconductor integrated circuit according to Embodiment 2 of the present invention illustrated in compared with the semiconductor integrated circuit according to Embodiment 1 of the present invention illustrated in .

Furthermore in the semiconductor integrated circuit according to Embodiment 2 of the present invention illustrated in the on resistance of the switches MSW MSW and MSW can be made comparatively large in value therefore it is not necessary to enlarge specially the element size of these switches MSW MSW and MSW. Therefore increase of the semiconductor chip area of the semiconductor integrated circuit according to Embodiment 2 of the present invention illustrated in due to the addition of the switches MSW MSW and MSW is negligible small. In the case of the semiconductor integrated circuit of double well structure explained in the last portion of Embodiment 1 an effect of reduction of the semiconductor chip area is the same.

As illustrated in each of plural memory cells MC comprises one pair of drive N channel MOS transistors MNDL MNDR one pair of load P channel MOS transistors MPUL MPUR and one pair of transfer N channel MOS transistors MNSL MNSR . A gate and a P well of one pair of transfer N channel MOS transistors MNSL MNSR are coupled to a word line wl and a local power source vssm respectively. A source and a P well of one pair of drive N channel MOS transistors MNDL MNDR are coupled to a cell array source line arvss and the local power source vssm respectively. A source and an N well of one pair of load P channel MOS transistors MPUL MPUR are coupled to the power supply voltage Vdd.

A drain of the left hand side drive N channel MOS transistor MNDL a drain of the left hand side load P channel MOS transistor MPUL a gate of the right hand side drive N channel MOS transistor MNDR and a gate of the right hand side load P channel MOS transistor MPUR form one memory node of the memory cell MC . The one memory node of the memory cell MC is coupled to a noninverting bit line bt via a source to drain path of the left hand side transfer N channel MOS transistor MNSL .

A drain of the right hand side drive N channel MOS transistor MNDR a drain of the right hand side load P channel MOS transistor MPUR a gate of the left hand side drive N channel MOS transistor MNDL and a gate of the left hand side load P channel MOS transistor MPUL form the other memory node of the memory cell MC . The other memory node of the memory cell MC is coupled to a noninverting bit line bb via a source to drain path of the right hand side transfer N channel MOS transistor MNSR .

The memory cell MC illustrated in is different from the memory cell MC illustrated in in the point that in the memory cell MC illustrated in a P well of one pair of drive N channel MOS transistors MNDL MNDR and a P well of one pair of transfer N channel MOS transistors MNSL MNSR are not coupled to the local power source vssm like the memory cell MC of but coupled to the cell array source line arvss. That is depending on magnitude of a leakage component of the memory cell MC the memory cell MC illustrated in exhibits greater reduction effect of the leakage current than the memory cell MC illustrated in . Specifically when a substrate leakage is more dominant than a subthreshold leakage the memory cell MC of exhibits greater reduction effect of the leakage current.

A semiconductor integrated circuit according to Embodiment 3 of the present invention illustrated in is different from the semiconductor integrated circuit according to Embodiment 2 of the present invention illustrated in in the following points.

The first difference is that the switches MSW MSW and MSW each comprising the N channel MOS transistor of the source line potential control circuit of three SRAM modules SRAM SRAM SRAM of the semiconductor integrated circuit according to Embodiment 2 of the present invention illustrated in are replaced by switches MPSW MPSW and MPSW each comprising a P channel MOS transistor of a source line potential control circuit of the semiconductor integrated circuit according to Embodiment 3 of the present invention illustrated in .

The next difference is that the coupling point of each of the switches MPSW MPSW and MPSW of the source line potential control circuit of three SRAM modules SRAM SRAM SRAM of the semiconductor integrated circuit according to Embodiment 3 of the present invention illustrated in is changed from between the cell array cell array and the local power lines vssl and vssm to between the cell array cell array and the power supply voltage Vdd.

An operating current of a memory cell MC in read operation is dominated by a current which flows from a bit line to the cell array source line arvss on the side of the ground potential Vss an operating current of a memory cell MC in write operation is dominated by a current which flows in driving a bit line and a current which flows into the cell array source line arvdd on the side of the power supply voltage Vdd is very small. Consequently it suffices that the switches MPSW MPSW and MPSW of the source line potential control circuit allow a small leakage current to pass at the time of standby therefore it is possible to make the size of the switches small and to suppress an overhead of the semiconductor chip occupied area.

When the control signal cnt is set at a high level in order to bring the logic circuit logic and the first SRAM module SRAM into an active state the first power switch PWSW is set to an on state and the potential of the first local power line vssl to which the logic circuit logic and the first SRAM module SRAM are coupled is set at the ground potential Vss. Furthermore the control signal rsb is set at a high level the control signal rsp is set at a low level and the peripheral circuit power switch PESW the active power switch SW and the switch MPSW are set to an on state. Accordingly the peripheral circuit peripheral and the cell array cell array of the first SRAM module SRAM are brought to an active state. Therefore in the present active sate it is possible for the logic circuit logic to perform logic operation and it is also possible to execute write operation or read operation of the first SRAM module SRAM .

When executing write operation of the first SRAM module SRAM it is possible to perform a write assist which weakens retaining function of old data of the cell array cell array of the first SRAM module SRAM by changing the control signal rsp toward the high level direction and reducing the degree of conduction of the switch MPSW.

When the control signal cnt is set at a high level in order to bring the logic circuit logic and the first SRAM module SRAM into a standby state the first power switch PWSW is set to an on state. Therefore the potential of the first local power line vssl to which the logic circuit logic and the first SRAM module SRAM are coupled is set at the ground potential Vss. The control signal rsb is set at a low level and the peripheral circuit power switch PESW and the active power switch SW are set to an off state. Furthermore the control signal rsp is set at a low level and the switch MPSW of the source line potential control circuit is set to an on state. Therefore the potential of one cell array source line arvss of the cell array cell array of the first SRAM module SRAM is set at a level a little higher than the ground potential Vss accordingly current of the cell array cell array is reduced to such an extent that retained data of the cell array are not destroyed.

When the control signal cnt is set at a low level in order to bring the logic circuit logic and the first SRAM module SRAM into a deep standby state the first power switch PWSW is set to an off state accordingly the potential of the first local power line vssl to which the logic circuit logic and the first SRAM module SRAM are coupled is set at a level near the power supply voltage Vdd. Therefore it is possible to reduce a leakage current of the memory cell MC of the cell array cell array of the first SRAM module SRAM to almost zero.

When one of the control signals cnt and cnt is set at a high level in order to bring one of the second and the third SRAM module SRAM SRAM into an active state one of the second and the third power switch PWSW and PWSW is set to an on state. Therefore the potential of the second local power line vssm to which the second and the third SRAM module SRAM SRAM are coupled is set at the ground potential Vss. Furthermore one of the control signals rsb and rsb is set at a high level one of the control signals rsp and rsp is set at a low level and one of the peripheral circuit power switches PESW and PESW one of the active power switches SW and SW and one of the deep standby switches MPSW and MPSW are set to an on state. Accordingly the peripheral circuit peripheral and the cell array cell array of one of the second and the third SRAM modules SRAM SRAM are set to an active state. Therefore it becomes possible to execute write operation or read operation to the SRAM module in the active state. When executing write operation to the SRAM module in the present active state as is the case with the first SRAM module SRAM it is possible to perform a write assist which weakens retaining function of old data of a cell array of the SRAM module in an active state by changing one of the control signals rsp and rsp toward the high level direction and reducing the degree of conduction of one of the switches MPSW and MPSW.

When one of the control signals cnt and cnt is set at a high level in order to bring one of the second and the third SRAM module SRAM SRAM into a standby state one of the second and the third power switch PWSW and PWSW is set to an on state. Therefore the potential of the second local power line vssm to which the second and the third SRAM module SRAM SRAM are coupled is set at the ground potential Vss. Furthermore one of the control signals rsb and rsb is set at a low level and one of the peripheral circuit power switches PESW and PESW and one of the active power switches SW and SW are set to an off state. Furthermore the control signals rsp and rsp are set at a low level and the switches MPSW and MPSW of the source line potential control circuit are set to an on state.

Therefore the potential of the cell array source lines arvss and arvss of the cell array cell array of one of the second and the third SRAM module SRAM SRAM is set at a level a little higher than the ground potential Vss accordingly it becomes possible to reduce current of the cell array cell array to such an extent that the retained data of the cell array cell array are not destroyed.

When one of the control signals cnt and cnt is set at a high level in order to bring only one of the second and the third SRAM module SRAM SRAM into an array power cut off state only one of the second and the third power switch PWSW and PWSW is set to an on state. Therefore the potential of the second local power line vssm to which the second and the third SRAM module SRAM SRAM are coupled is set at the ground potential Vss. Furthermore only one of the control signals rsb and rsb is set at a low level and only one of the peripheral circuit power switches PESW and PESW and only one of the active power switches SW and SW are set to an off state. Furthermore only one of the control signals rsp and rsp is set at a high level and only one of the switches MPSW and MPSW of the source line potential control circuit is set to an off state.

In one of the SRAM modules in which the switch MPSW or the switch MPSW is set to an off state it is possible to reduce effectively a leakage current of a memory cell MC which is brought to an array power cut off state compared with a standby state in which data is held.

When one of the control signals cnt and cnt is set at a high level only one of the second and the third power switch PWSW and PWSW is set to an on state. Accordingly the potential of the second local power line vssm to which the second and the third SRAM module SRAM SRAM are coupled is set at the ground potential Vss. Furthermore both control signals rsb and rsb are set at a low level and both peripheral circuit power switches PESW and PESW and both active power switches SW and SW are set to an off state. Furthermore both control signals rsp and rsp are set at a high level and both switches MPSW and MPSW of the source line potential control circuit are set to an off state. Compared with a standby state in which data is held it is possible to reduce effectively a leakage current of the memory cell MC of both the second and the third SRAM in an array power cut off state. When compared with an array power gating in which the second and the third power switch PWSW and PWSW are controlled to an off state with the use of the control signals cnt and cnt set at a low level the present array power cut off state exhibits an effect that a high speed return from the cut off state becomes possible.

When the control signal cnt is set at a low level in order to bring both the second and the third SRAM module SRAM SRAM into a deep standby state the power switch PWSW is set to an off state. Accordingly the potential of the second local power line vssm to which the second and the third SRAM module SRAM SRAM are coupled is set at a level near the power supply voltage Vdd and it is possible to reduce a leakage current to almost zero.

The memory cell MC illustrated in is different from the memory cell MC illustrated in in the point that a source of one pair of load P channel MOS transistors MPUL MPUR is coupled not to the power supply voltage Vdd but to the cell array source line arvdd to which the deep standby switch MPSW is coupled.

The memory cell MC illustrated in is different from the memory cell MC illustrated in in the point that an N well of one pair of load P channel MOS transistors MPUL MPUR is coupled not to the power supply voltage Vdd but to the cell array source line arvdd to which the deep standby switch MPSW is coupled.

The memory cell MC illustrated in is more advantageous than the memory cell MC illustrated in in a viewpoint of reduction of a leakage current of the memory cell MC . However in the memory cell MC illustrated in it is necessary to separate electrically an N well of one pair of load P channel MOS transistors MPUL MPUR coupled to the cell array source line arvdd from an N well of the peripheral circuit peripheral coupled to the power supply voltage Vdd or other P channel MOS transistors MPUL MPUR except for the SRAM module.

For example in a semiconductor integrated circuit of triple well structure in order to separate electrically plural N wells of plural P channel MOS transistors mutually it is necessary to form plural N wells spaced out mutually on a P type substrate. Therefore the memory cell MC illustrated in is more advantageous than the memory cell MC illustrated in in a viewpoint of reduction of a chip area of a semiconductor integrated circuit. As a result in designing a semiconductor integrated circuit if priority is given to reduction of a chip area of a semiconductor integrated circuit the memory cell MC illustrated in will be chosen and if priority is given to reduction of a leakage current of a memory cell MC the memory cell MC illustrated in will be chosen.

The memory cell MC illustrated in is different from the memory cell MC illustrated in in the point that a PMOS substrate bias voltage Vbp is supplied to an N well of one pair of load P channel MOS transistors MPUL MPUR and that an NMOS substrate bias voltage Vbn is supplied to a P well of one pair of drive N channel MOS transistors MNDL MNDR and one pair of transfer N channel MOS transistors MNSL MNSR . The PMOS substrate bias voltage Vbp and the NMOS substrate bias voltage Vbn are generated by a substrate bias generation circuit not shown . The substrate bias generation circuit generates the PMOS substrate bias voltage Vbp and the NMOS substrate bias voltage Vbn which have suitable voltage values responding to change of a manufacturing process temperature or a power supply voltage. Therefore a logic threshold voltage of a CMOS inverter which comprises one pair of load P channel MOS transistors MPUL MPUR and one pair of drive N channel MOS transistors MNDL MNDR of a memory cell MC is set at a voltage value of approximately middle of the operating voltage arvdd arvss. As a result a leakage current of the memory cell MC is reduced and it is possible to improve the data retaining characteristics of the memory cell MC .

A semiconductor integrated circuit according to Embodiment 4 of the present invention illustrated in is different from the semiconductor integrated circuit according to Embodiment 3 of the present invention illustrated in in the following points.

That is in the semiconductor integrated circuit according to Embodiment 4 of the present invention illustrated in the deep standby switches MSWS MSWS and MSWS comprising the N channel MOS transistors in the semiconductor integrated circuit according to Embodiment 2 of the present invention illustrated in are added between the cell array source lines arvss arvss and arvss and the local power lines vssl and vssm.

As a result in the semiconductor integrated circuit according to Embodiment 4 of the present invention illustrated in the deep standby switches MPSWS MPSWS and MPSWS comprising P channel MOS transistors are coupled between the power supply voltage Vdd and the cell array source line arvdd arvdd and arvdd of the cell array cell array and the deep standby switches MSWS MSWS and MSWS comprising N channel MOS transistors are coupled between the cell array source lines arvss arvss and arvss and the local power line vssl and vssm.

In a deep standby state of the logic circuit logic and the first SRAM module SRAM the control signal cnt is set at a low level the first power switch PWSW is set to an off state the control signal rsb is set at a low level and the peripheral circuit power switch PESW and the active power switch SW are set to an off state. Furthermore the control signal rs is set at a low level the control signal rsp is set at a high level and the switches MSW and MPSW of the source line potential control circuit are set to an off state.

In a deep standby state of the second SRAM module SRAM the control signal cnt is set at a low level and the second power switch PWSW is set to an off state and the control signal rsb is set at a low level and the peripheral circuit power switch PESW and the active power switch SW are set to an off state. Furthermore the control signal rs is set at a low level and the control signal rsp is set at a high level and the switches MSW and MPSW of the source line potential control circuit are set to an off state.

Furthermore in a deep standby state of the third SRAM module SRAM the control signal cnt is set at a low level and the third power switch PWSW is set to an off state and the control signal rsb is set at a low level and the peripheral circuit power switch PESW and the active power switch SW are set to an off state. Furthermore the control signal rs is set at a low level and the control signal rsp is set at a high level and the switches MSW and MPSW of the source line potential control circuit are set to an off state.

In the semiconductor integrated circuit according to Embodiment 4 of the present invention illustrated in to three SRAM modules SRAM SRAM SRAM the deep standby switches MPSWS MPSWS and MPSWS each comprising a P channel MOS transistor on the power supply side and the deep standby switches MSWS MSWS and MSWS each comprising an N channel MOS transistor on the ground side are coupled. Especially in a deep standby state the power supply side deep standby switches MPSWS MPSWS and MPSWS and the ground side deep standby switches MSWS MSWS and MSWS are both controlled into an off state accordingly it is possible to reduce reliably a leakage current of the cell array cell array which is controlled into a deep standby state. Therefore in plural memory cells MC of a cell array cell array even in the state where the power supply voltage Vdd is supplied to an N well of one pair of load P channel MOS transistors MPUL MPUR and the potential of the local power line vssm is supplied to a P well of one pair of drive N channel MOS transistors MNDL MNDR and one pair of transfer N channel MOS transistors MNSL MNSR it becomes possible to reduce a leakage current of the memory cell MC in a deep standby state. The leakage current in a deep standby state is given by a weak reverse current of a PN junction between the N well to which the power supply voltage Vdd is supplied and the P well to which the potential of the local power line vssm is supplied.

A semiconductor integrated circuit according to Embodiment 5 of the present invention illustrated in is different from the semiconductor integrated circuit according to Embodiment 2 of the present invention illustrated in in the following points.

That is in the semiconductor integrated circuit according to Embodiment 5 of the present invention illustrated in a drain to source path of P channel MOS transistors MCP MCP and MCP is coupled between a gate of the N channel MOS transistors MN MN and MN of the source line potential control circuit of three SRAM modules SRAM SRAM SRAM and the cell array source lines arvss arvss and arvss and a drain to source path of N channel MOS transistors MCN MCN and MCN is coupled between a gate of the N channel MOS transistors MN MN and MN of the source line potential control circuit of three SRAM modules SRAM SRAM SRAM and the local power lines vssl and vssm.

First in an active state of the SRAM modules SRAM SRAM SRAM the control signals cnt cnt and cnt are set at a high level and the power switches PWSW PWSW and PWSW are set to an on state and the local power lines vssl and vssm are set at the ground potential Vss. Next the control signals rsb rsb and rsb are set at a high level and the peripheral circuit power switches PESW PESW and PESW and the active power switches SW SW and SW are set to an on state. Accordingly the peripheral circuit peripheral and the cell array cell array of the SRAM modules SRAM SRAM SRAM are set to an active state.

Next in a standby state of the SRAM modules SRAM SRAM SRAM the control signal cnt cnt and cnt are set at a high level and the power switches PWSW PWSW and PWSW are set to an on state. The control signals rsb rsb and rsb are set at a low level and the peripheral circuit power switches PESW PESW and PESW and the active power switches SW SW and SW are set to an off state. At this time the control signals rs rs and rs are set at a low level and the P channel MOS transistors MCP MCP and MCP are set to an on state accordingly the N channel MOS transistors MN MN and MN of the source line potential control circuit operate as a diode. Therefore the potential of the cell array source line arvss arvss and arvss of the cell array cell array of the SRAM modules SRAM SRAM SRAM is set at a level a little higher than the ground potential Vss. Accordingly current of the cell array cell array is reduced to such an extent that retained data of the cell array are not destroyed.

In a deep standby state of the SRAM modules SRAM SRAM SRAM the control signals cnt cnt and cnt are set at a low level and the power switches PWSW PWSW and PWSW are set to an off state. The control signals rsb rsb and rsb are set at a low level and the peripheral circuit power switch PESW PESW and PESW and the active power switch SW SW and SW are set to an off state. At this time the control signals rs rs and rs are set at a high level the N channel MOS transistors MCN MCN and MCN are set to an on state and the N channel MOS transistors MN MN and MN of the source line potential control circuit are set to an off state. Therefore it is possible to reduce greatly the operating current of the cell array cell array of the SRAM modules SRAM SRAM SRAM by setting high a value of resistance of the resistor RN RN and RN of the source line potential control circuit.

A semiconductor integrated circuit according to Embodiment 6 of the present invention illustrated in is different from the semiconductor integrated circuit according to Embodiment 5 of the present invention illustrated in in the following points.

That is the resistors RN RN and RN of the source line potential control circuit of three SRAM modules SRAM SRAM SRAM of the semiconductor integrated circuit according to Embodiment 5 of the present invention illustrated in are replaced by N channel MOS transistors MRN MRN and MRN of the source line potential control circuit of three SRAM modules SRAM SRAM SRAM of the semiconductor integrated circuit according to Embodiment 6 of the present invention illustrated in . Since a CMOS inverter is coupled to a control gate of each of the N channel MOS transistors MRN MRN and MRN inverted signals of the control signals rs rs and rs are supplied to the control gates of the N channel MOS transistors MRN MRN and MRN respectively.

Therefore in a deep standby state of the semiconductor integrated circuit according to Embodiment 6 of the present invention illustrated in when the N channel MOS transistors MN MN and MN of the source line potential control circuit are set to an off state by the control signals rs rs and rs of a high level the N channel MOS transistors MRN MRN and MRN are set to an off state accordingly it is possible to reduce greatly the operating current of the cell array cell array of the SRAM modules SRAM SRAM SRAM .

In a semiconductor integrated circuit according to Embodiment 7 of the present invention although not illustrated in but as is the case with the semiconductor integrated circuit according to Embodiment 2 of the present invention illustrated in the local power line of the logic circuit logic and the local power line of the first SRAM module SRAM share the first local power line vssl and the local power line of the second SRAM module SRAM and the local power line of the third SRAM module SRAM share the second local power line vssm. The first power switch PWSW coupled between the shared first local power line vssl and the ground potential Vss is shared by the logic circuit logic and the first SRAM module SRAM . Furthermore the second power switch PWSW and the third power switch PWSW which are coupled between the shared second local power line vssm and the ground potential Vss are shared by the second SRAM module SRAM and the third SRAM module SRAM .

In the first SRAM module SRAM of the semiconductor integrated circuit according to Embodiment 7 of the present invention a peripheral circuit power switch PESW is coupled between the peripheral circuit peripheral and the first local power line vssl and a source line potential control circuit to be explained below is coupled between the cell array source line arvss of the cell array cell array and the first local power line vssl. Also in the second SRAM module SRAM a peripheral circuit power switch PESW is coupled between the peripheral circuit peripheral and the second local power line vssm and a source line potential control circuit to be explained below is coupled between the cell array source line arvss of the cell array cell array and the second local power line vssm. Furthermore also in the third SRAM module SRAM a peripheral circuit power switch PESW is coupled between the peripheral circuit peripheral and the second local power line vssm and a source line potential control circuit to be explained below is coupled between the cell array source line arvss of the cell array cell array and the second local power line vssm.

As illustrated in the source line potential control circuit of each SRAM module of three SRAM modules SRAM SRAM SRAM of the semiconductor integrated circuit according to Embodiment 7 of the present invention comprises a resistor RN and an N channel MOS transistor MN L coupled in parallel between the cell array source line arvss and the local power line vssm.

A source to drain path of two P channel MOS transistors MP L and MP L is coupled in series between the power supply voltage Vdd and a control gate of the N channel MOS transistor MN L and a drain to source path of two N channel MOS transistors MN L and MN L is coupled in series between a drain and the control gate of the N channel MOS transistor MN L.

A drain to source path of an N channel MOS transistor MN L is coupled between the control gate of the N channel MOS transistor MN L and the local power line vssm and the control signal rs is supplied to a control gate of the N channel MOS transistor MN L.

The control signal rsb is supplied to an input terminal of the CMOS inverter INV L and an output signal of the CMOS inverter INV L is supplied to a control gate of the P channel MOS transistor MP L and a control gate of the N channel MOS transistor MN L. The control signal rs is supplied to a control gate of the P channel MOS transistor MP L and an input terminal of the CMOS inverter INV L and an output signal of the CMOS inverter INV L is supplied to a control gate of the N channel MOS transistor MN L.

In an active state of the SRAM module illustrated in the control signal cnt the control signal rsb and the control signal rs are set at a high level a high level and a low level respectively. Therefore the power switch PWSW is set to an on state two P channel MOS transistors MP L and MP L which are coupled in series are set to an on state and the N channel MOS transistor MN L is set to an on state.

Therefore the local power line vssm is set at the ground potential Vss and the peripheral circuit power switch PESW is set to an on state accordingly the peripheral circuit peripheral is set to an active state. Furthermore the potential of the cell array source line arvss is set at the ground potential Vss due to the on state of the N channel MOS transistor MN L and the cell array cell array is also set to an active state accordingly it becomes possible to execute write operation or read operation of the SRAM module illustrated in .

In a standby state of the SRAM module illustrated in the control signal cnt the control signal rsb and the control signal rs are set at a high level a low level and a low level respectively. Therefore the power switch PWSW is set to an on state and two N channel MOS transistors MN L and MN L which are coupled in series are set to an on state accordingly the N channel MOS transistor MN L operates as a diode.

Therefore the peripheral circuit power switch PESW is set to an off state and the peripheral circuit peripheral is set to a standby state. Furthermore The potential of the cell array source line arvss is set at a level a little higher than the ground potential Vss due to the diode operation of the N channel MOS transistor MN L and the current of the cell array is reduced to such an extent that retained data of the cell array cell array are not destroyed.

In a deep standby state of the SRAM module illustrated in the control signal rsb and the control signal rs are set at a low level and a high level respectively. Therefore the N channel MOS transistor MN L is set to an on state and the N channel MOS transistor MN L is set to an off state. Therefore it is possible to reduce greatly the operating current of the cell array cell array of the SRAM module by setting high a value of resistance of the resistor RN of the source line potential control circuit.

In a semiconductor integrated circuit according to Embodiment 8 of the present invention although not illustrated in but as is the case with the semiconductor integrated circuit according to Embodiment 2 of the present invention illustrated in the local power line of the logic circuit logic and the local power line of the first SRAM module SRAM share the first local power line vssl and the local power line of the second SRAM module SRAM and the local power line of the third SRAM module SRAM share the second local power line vssm. The first power switch PWSW coupled between the shared first local power line vssl and the ground potential Vss is shared by the logic circuit logic and the first SRAM module SRAM . Furthermore the second power switch PWSW and the third power switch PWSW which are coupled between the shared second local power line vssm and the ground potential Vss are shared by the second SRAM module SRAM and the third SRAM module SRAM .

In the first SRAM module SRAM of the semiconductor integrated circuit according to Embodiment 8 of the present invention a peripheral circuit power switch PESW is coupled between the peripheral circuit peripheral and the first local power line vssl and a source line potential control circuit to be explained below is coupled between the cell array source line arvss of the cell array cell array and the first local power line vssl. Also in the second SRAM module SRAM a peripheral circuit power switch PESW is coupled between the peripheral circuit peripheral and the second local power line vssm and a source line potential control circuit to be explained below is coupled between the cell array source line arvss of the cell array cell array and the second local power line vssm. Furthermore also in the third SRAM module SRAM a peripheral circuit power switch PESW is coupled between the peripheral circuit peripheral and the second local power line vssm and a source line potential control circuit to be explained below is coupled between the cell array source line arvss of the cell array cell array and the second local power line vssm.

As illustrated in the source line potential control circuit of each SRAM module of three SRAM modules SRAM SRAM SRAM of the semiconductor integrated circuit according to Embodiment 8 of the present invention comprises a resistor RN and an N channel MOS transistor MN L coupled in parallel between the cell array source line arvss and the local power line vssm.

A source to drain path of two P channel MOS transistors MP L and MP L is coupled in series between the power supply voltage Vdd and a control gate of the N channel MOS transistor MN L and a source to drain path of two P channel MOS transistors MP L and MP L is coupled in series between a drain and the control gate of the N channel MOS transistor MN L.

A drain to source path of a N channel MOS transistor MN L is coupled between the control gate of the N channel MOS transistor MN L and the local power line vssm and the control signal rs is supplied to a control gate of the N channel MOS transistor MN L.

The control signal rsb is supplied to a control gate of the P channel MOS transistor MP L and an input terminal of the CMOS inverter INV L and an output signal of the CMOS inverter INV L is supplied to a control gate of the P channel MOS transistor MP L. The control signal rs is supplied to a control gate of the P channel MOS transistor MP L and a control gate of the P channel MOS transistor MP L.

In an active state of the SRAM module illustrated in the control signal cnt the control signal rsb and the control signal rs are set at a high level a high level and a low level respectively. Accordingly the power switch PWSW is set to an on state two P channel MOS transistors MP L and MP L which are coupled in series are set to an on state and the N channel MOS transistor MN L is set to an on state.

Therefore the local power line vssm is set at the ground potential Vss and the peripheral circuit power switch PESW is set to an on state accordingly the peripheral circuit peripheral is set to an active state. Furthermore the potential of the cell array source line arvss is set at the ground potential Vss due to the on state of the N channel MOS transistor MN L and the cell array cell array is also set to an active state accordingly it becomes possible to execute write operation or read operation of the SRAM module illustrated in .

In a standby state of the SRAM module illustrated in the control signal cnt the control signal rsb and the control signal rs are set at a high level a low level and a low level respectively. Accordingly the power switch PWSW is set to an on state two P channel MOS transistors MP L and MP L which are coupled in series are set to an on state and the N channel MOS transistor MN L operates as a diode.

Therefore the peripheral circuit power switch PESW is set to an off state and the peripheral circuit peripheral is set in a standby state. Furthermore the potential of the cell array source line arvss is set at a level a little higher than the ground potential Vss due to the diode operation of the N channel MOS transistor MN L and current of the cell array cell array is reduced to such an extent that retained data of the cell array are not destroyed.

In a deep standby state of the SRAM module illustrated in the control signal rsb and the control signal rs are set at a low level and a high level respectively. Therefore the N channel MOS transistor MN L is set to an on state and the N channel MOS transistor MN L is set to an off state. Therefore it is possible to reduce greatly the operating current of the cell array cell array of the SRAM module by setting high a value of resistance of the resistor RN of the source line potential control circuit.

In a semiconductor integrated circuit according to Embodiment 9 of the present invention although not illustrated in but as is the case with the semiconductor integrated circuit according to Embodiment 3 of the present invention illustrated in the local power line of the logic circuit logic and the local power line of the first SRAM module SRAM share the first local power line vssl and the local power line of the second SRAM module SRAM and the local power line of the third SRAM module SRAM share the second local power line vssm. The first power switch PWSW coupled between the shared first local power line vssl and the ground potential Vss is shared by the logic circuit logic and the first SRAM module SRAM . Furthermore the second power switch PWSW and the third power switch PWSW which are coupled between the shared second local power line vssm and the ground potential Vss are shared by the second SRAM module SRAM and the third SRAM module SRAM .

Furthermore In the semiconductor integrated circuit according to Embodiment 9 of the present invention although not illustrated in but as is the case with the semiconductor integrated circuit according to Embodiment 3 of the present invention illustrated in the deep standby switches MPSWS MPSWS and MPSWS comprising a P channel MOS transistor are coupled between the power supply voltage Vdd and the cell array source lines arvdd arvdd and arvdd of the cell array cell array .

In the first SRAM module SRAM of the semiconductor integrated circuit according to Embodiment 9 of the present invention a peripheral circuit power switch PESW is coupled between the peripheral circuit peripheral and the first local power line vssl and a source line potential control circuit to be explained below is coupled between the cell array source line arvss of the cell array cell array and the first local power line vssl. Also in the second SRAM module SRAM a peripheral circuit power switch PESW is coupled between the peripheral circuit peripheral and the second local power line vssm and a source line potential control circuit to be explained below is coupled between the cell array source line arvss of the cell array cell array and the second local power line vssm. Furthermore also in the third SRAM module SRAM a peripheral circuit power switch PESW is coupled between the peripheral circuit peripheral and the second local power line vssm and a source line potential control circuit to be explained below is coupled between the cell array source line arvss of the cell array cell array and the second local power line vssm.

As illustrated in the source line potential control circuit on the power supply side of each SRAM module of three SRAM modules SRAM SRAM SRAM of the semiconductor integrated circuit according to Embodiment 9 of the present invention comprises a P channel MOS transistor MP between the power supply voltage Vdd and the power supply side cell array source line arvdd and the control signal rs is supplied to a control gate of the P channel MOS transistor MP.

As illustrated in the source line potential control circuit on the ground side of each SRAM module of three SRAM modules SRAM SRAM SRAM of the semiconductor integrated circuit according to Embodiment 9 of the present invention comprises a resistor RN and an N channel MOS transistor MN L coupled in parallel between the cell array source line arvss and the local power line vssm.

A source to drain path of a P channel MOS transistor MP M is coupled between the power supply voltage Vdd and a control gate of the N channel MOS transistor MN L and a drain to source path of a N channel MOS transistor MN M is coupled between a drain and the control gate of the N channel MOS transistor MN L.

The control signal rsb is supplied to an input terminal of a CMOS inverter INV L and an output signal of the CMOS inverter INV L is supplied to a control gate of the P channel MOS transistor MP M and a control gate of the N channel MOS transistor MN M.

In an active state of the SRAM module illustrated in the control signal cnt the control signal rsb and the control signal rs are set at a high level a high level and a low level respectively. Accordingly the power switch PWSW is set to an on state. In the source line potential control circuit on the ground side the P channel MOS transistor MP M is set to an on state and the N channel MOS transistor MN L is set to an on state. In the source line potential control circuit on the power supply side the P channel MOS transistor MP is set to an on state.

Therefore the local power line vssm is set at the ground potential Vss and the peripheral circuit power switch PESW is set to an on state accordingly the peripheral circuit peripheral is set to an active state. Furthermore the potential of the power supply side cell array source line arvdd is set at the power supply voltage Vdd due to the on state of the P channel MOS transistor MP the potential of the ground side cell array source line arvss is set at the ground potential Vss due to the on state of the N channel MOS transistor MN L and the cell array cell array is also set to an active state accordingly it becomes possible to execute write operation or read operation of the SRAM module illustrated in .

In a standby state of the SRAM module illustrated in the control signal cnt the control signal rsb and the control signal rs are set at a high level a low level and a low level respectively. Accordingly the power switch PWSW is set to an on state the N channel MOS transistor MN M is set to an on state and the N channel MOS transistor MN L operates as a diode.

Accordingly the peripheral circuit power switch PESW is set to an off state and the peripheral circuit peripheral is set in a standby state. In the source line potential control circuit on the power supply side the P channel MOS transistor MP between the power supply voltage Vdd and the power supply side cell array source line arvdd is controlled into an on state. Furthermore in the source line potential control circuit on the ground side the potential of the cell array source line arvss is set at a level a little higher than the ground potential Vss due to the diode operation of the N channel MOS transistor MN L. Accordingly current of the cell array cell array is reduced to such an extent that retained data of the cell array are not destroyed.

In a deep standby state of the SRAM module illustrated in the control signal rsb and the control signal rs are set at a low level and a high level respectively. Therefore the P channel MOS transistor MP of the source line potential control circuit on the power supply side is set to an off state and in the source line potential control circuit on the ground side the N channel MOS transistor MN M is set to an on state and the N channel MOS transistor MN L is set to an off state. Therefore it is possible to reduce greatly the operating current of the cell array cell array of the SRAM module by setting high a value of resistance of the resistor RN of the source line potential control circuit on the ground side.

In a semiconductor integrated circuit according to Embodiment 10 of the present invention although not illustrated in but as is the case with the semiconductor integrated circuit according to Embodiment 2 of the present invention illustrated in the local power line of the logic circuit logic and the local power line of the first SRAM module SRAM share the first local power line vssl and the local power line of the second SRAM module SRAM and the local power line of the third SRAM module SRAM share the second local power line vssm. The first power switch PWSW coupled between the shared first local power line vssl and the ground potential Vss is shared by the logic circuit logic and the first SRAM module SRAM . Furthermore the second power switch PWSW and the third power switch PWSW which are coupled between the shared second local power line vssm and the ground potential Vss are shared by the second SRAM module SRAM and the third SRAM module SRAM .

In the first SRAM module SRAM of the semiconductor integrated circuit according to Embodiment 10 of the present invention a peripheral circuit power switch PESW is coupled between the peripheral circuit peripheral and the first local power line vssl and a source line potential control circuit to be explained below is coupled between the cell array source line arvss of the cell array cell array and the first local power line vssl. Also in the second SRAM module SRAM a peripheral circuit power switch PESW is coupled between the peripheral circuit peripheral and the second local power line vssm and a source line potential control circuit to be explained below is coupled between the cell array source line arvss of the cell array cell array and the second local power line vssm. Furthermore also in the third SRAM module SRAM a peripheral circuit power switch PESW is coupled between the peripheral circuit peripheral and the second local power line vssm and a source line potential control circuit to be explained below is coupled between the cell array source line arvss of the cell array cell array and the second local power line vssm.

As illustrated in the source line potential control circuit of each SRAM module of three SRAM modules SRAM SRAM SRAM of the semiconductor integrated circuit according to Embodiment 10 of the present invention comprises an active power switch SW a resistor RN an N channel MOS transistor MNOP and a deep standby switch MN arranged between the cell array source line arvss and the local power line vssm. A parallel coupling body of the resistor RN and the N channel MOS transistor MNOP is coupled with the deep standby switch MN in series and the deep standby switch MN is coupled with the power switch PWSW in series.

Especially the semiconductor integrated circuit according to Embodiment 10 of the present invention illustrated in comprises a differential amplifier DA. The potential of the cell array source line arvss of a drain of the N channel MOS transistor MNOP is supplied to a noninverting input terminal of the differential amplifier DA a reference voltage Vref is supplied to an inverting input terminal of the differential amplifier DA and an output signal of the differential amplifier DA is supplied to a control gate of the N channel MOS transistor MNOP.

In an active state of the SRAM module illustrated in the control signal cnt the control signal rs and the control signal rs are set at a high level a high level and a low level respectively. Accordingly the power switch PWSW is set to an on state. Therefore the local power line vssm is set at the ground potential Vss and the peripheral circuit power switch PESW is set to an on state accordingly the peripheral circuit peripheral is set to an active state. Furthermore the potential of the cell array source line arvss is set at the ground potential Vss due to the on state of the active power switch SW and the cell array cell array is also set to an active state accordingly it becomes possible to execute write operation or read operation of the SRAM module illustrated in .

In a standby state of the SRAM module illustrated in the differential amplifier DA is activated first the control signal cnt the control signal rs and the control signal rs are set at a high level a low level and a high level respectively accordingly the power switch PWSW is set to an on state the peripheral circuit power switch PESW is set to an off state and the peripheral circuit peripheral is set in a standby state. Furthermore the active power switch SW is set to an off state and the deep standby switch MN is set to an on state. Furthermore by the activation of the differential amplifier DA the control gate of the N channel MOS transistor MNOP is controlled by the output signal of the differential amplifier DA so that the potential of the cell array source line arvss of the drain of the N channel MOS transistor MNOP may become nearly equal to the reference voltage Vref. In this way in the source line potential control circuit due to the operation of the differential amplifier DA and the N channel MOS transistor MNOP the potential of the cell array source line arvss is set at a level of the reference voltage Vref which is a little higher than the ground potential Vss. Therefore current of the cell array cell array is reduced to such an extent that retained data of the cell array are not destroyed. The reference voltage Vref is set at a suitable voltage value corresponding to changes of a manufacturing process temperature or a power supply voltage.

In a deep standby state of the SRAM module illustrated in the control signal rs and the control signal rs are set to a low level and a low level respectively and the peripheral circuit power switch PESW the active power switch SW and the deep standby switch MN are set to an off state. Therefore it is possible to reduce greatly the operating current of the cell array cell array of the SRAM module.

In a semiconductor integrated circuit according to Embodiment 11 of the present invention although not illustrated in but as is the case with the semiconductor integrated circuit according to Embodiment 2 of the present invention illustrated in the local power line of the logic circuit logic and the local power line of the first SRAM module SRAM share the first local power line vssl and the local power line of the second SRAM module SRAM and the local power line of the third SRAM module SRAM share the second local power line vssm. The first power switch PWSW coupled between the shared first local power line vssl and the ground potential Vss is shared by the logic circuit logic and the first SRAM module SRAM . Furthermore the second power switch PWSW and the third power switch PWSW which are coupled between the shared second local power line vssm and the ground potential Vss are shared by the second SRAM module SRAM and the third SRAM module SRAM .

In the first SRAM module SRAM of the semiconductor integrated circuit according to Embodiment 11 of the present invention a peripheral circuit power switch PESW is coupled between the peripheral circuit peripheral and the first local power line vssl and a source line potential control circuit to be explained below is coupled between the cell array source line arvss of the cell array cell array and the first local power line vssl. Also in the second SRAM module SRAM a peripheral circuit power switch PESW is coupled between the peripheral circuit peripheral and the second local power line vssm and a source line potential control circuit to be explained below is coupled between the cell array source line arvss of the cell array cell array and the second local power line vssm. Furthermore also in the third SRAM module SRAM a peripheral circuit power switch PESW is coupled between the peripheral circuit peripheral and the second local power line vssm and a source line potential control circuit to be explained below is coupled between the cell array source line arvss of the cell array cell array and the second local power line vssm. Furthermore a bias circuit to be explained below is coupled to the source line potential control circuit.

As illustrated in the source line potential control circuit of each SRAM module of three SRAM modules SRAM SRAM SRAM of the semiconductor integrated circuit according to Embodiment 11 of the present invention comprises an active power switch SW an N channel MOS transistor MNI and a deep standby switch MNI arranged between the cell array source line arvss and the local power line vssm. The N channel MOS transistor MNI and the deep standby switch MNI are coupled in series and the present series coupling body is coupled with the active power switch SW in parallel.

As illustrated in a bias circuit is coupled to the source line potential control circuit of each SRAM module of three SRAM modules SRAM SRAM SRAM of the semiconductor integrated circuit according to Embodiment 11 of the present invention. The bias circuit comprises a resistor RN a P channel MOS transistor MP ICNT and an N channel MOS transistor MN MIR which are coupled in series between the power supply voltage Vdd and the local power line vssm.

In the bias circuit a source of the P channel MOS transistor MP ICNT is coupled to the power supply voltage Vdd via the resistor RN. A control signal ibiase is supplied to a control gate of the P channel MOS transistor MP ICNT and a drain of the P channel MOS transistor MP ICNT is coupled to the N channel MOS transistor MN MIR. By coupling a drain and a control gate of the N channel MOS transistor MN MIR the diode coupling of the N channel MOS transistor MN MIR is established. The diode coupling N channel MOS transistor MN MIR of the bias circuit and the N channel MOS transistor MNI of the source line potential control circuit form a current mirror.

In an active state of the SRAM module illustrated in the control signal cnt and the control signal rsb are set at a high level and a high level respectively and the power switch PWSW is set to an on state. Therefore the local power line vssm is set at the ground potential Vss and the peripheral circuit power switch PESW is set to anon state accordingly the peripheral circuit peripheral is set to an active state. Furthermore the potential of the cell array source line arvss is set at the ground potential Vss due to the on state of the active power switch SW and the cell array cell array is also set to an active state accordingly it is possible to execute write operation or read operation of the SRAM module illustrated in .

In a standby state of the SRAM module illustrated in the control signal ibiase is first set at a low level and the P channel MOS transistor MP ICNT of the bias circuit is set to an on state. The control signal cnt the control signal rsb and the control signal rs are set to a high level a low level and a high level respectively accordingly the power switch PWSW is set to an on state the peripheral circuit power switch PESW is set to an off state the peripheral circuit peripheral is set in a standby state and the deep standby switch MNI is set to an on state. Furthermore the potential of the cell array source line arvss is set at a level a little higher than the ground potential Vss by the operation of the current mirror which is formed by the diode coupling N channel MOS transistor MN MIR of the bias circuit and the N channel MOS transistor MNI of the source line potential control circuit. Therefore current of the cell array cell array is reduced to such an extent that retained data of the cell array are not destroyed.

In a deep standby state of the SRAM module illustrated in the control signal rsb and the control signal rs are set at a low level and a low level respectively accordingly the peripheral circuit power switch PESW is set to an off state and the deep standby switch MNI is set to an off state. Therefore it is possible to reduce greatly the operating current of a cell array cell array of the SRAM module.

In a semiconductor integrated circuit according to Embodiment 12 of the present invention although not illustrated in but as is the case with the semiconductor integrated circuit according to Embodiment 2 of the present invention illustrated in the local power line of the logic circuit logic and the local power line of the first SRAM module SRAM share the first local power line vssl and the local power line of the second SRAM module SRAM and the local power line of the third SRAM module SRAM share the second local power line vssm. The first power switch PWSW coupled between the shared first local power line vssl and the ground potential Vss is shared by the logic circuit logic and the first SRAM module SRAM . Furthermore the second power switch PWSW and the third power switch PWSW which are coupled between the shared second local power line vssm and the ground potential Vss are shared by the second SRAM module SRAM and the third SRAM module SRAM .

In the first SRAM module SRAM of the semiconductor integrated circuit according to Embodiment 12 of the present invention a peripheral circuit power switch PESW is coupled between the peripheral circuit peripheral and the first local power line vssl and a source line potential control circuit to be explained below is coupled between the cell array source line arvss of the cell array cell array and the first local power line vssl. Also in the second SRAM module SRAM a peripheral circuit power switch PESW is coupled between the peripheral circuit peripheral and the second local power line vssm and a source line potential control circuit to be explained below is coupled between the cell array source line arvss of the cell array cell array and the second local power line vssm. Furthermore also in the third SRAM module SRAM a peripheral circuit power switch PESW is coupled between the peripheral circuit peripheral and the second local power line vssm and a source line potential control circuit to be explained below is coupled between the cell array source line arvss of the cell array cell array and the second local power line vssm. Furthermore a bias circuit to be explained below is coupled to the source line potential control circuit.

As illustrated in the source line potential control circuit of each SRAM module of three SRAM modules SRAM SRAM SRAM of the semiconductor integrated circuit according to Embodiment 12 of the present invention comprises an active power switch SW an N channel MOS transistor MNI a deep standby switch MN a CMOS transfer switch PASSTR and a CMOS inverter INV PASS arranged between the cell array source line arvss and the local power line vssm. In the source line potential control circuit the active power switch SW and the N channel MOS transistor MNI are coupled in parallel between the cell array source line arvss and the local power line vssm. A drain to source path of the deep standby switch MN is coupled between a control gate of the N channel MOS transistor MNI and the local power line vssm. The control signal rs is supplied at a control gate of the deep standby switch MN.

As illustrated in a bias circuit is coupled to the source line potential control circuit of each SRAM module of three SRAM modules SRAM SRAM SRAM of the semiconductor integrated circuit according to Embodiment 12 of the present invention. The bias circuit comprises a resistor RN a P channel MOS transistor MP ICNT and an N channel MOS transistor MN MIR which are coupled in series between the power supply voltage Vdd and the local power line vssm.

In the bias circuit a source of the P channel MOS transistor MP ICNT is coupled to the power supply voltage Vdd via the resistor RN. The control signal ibiase is supplied to a control gate of the P channel MOS transistor MP ICNT and a drain of the P channel MOS transistor MP ICNT is coupled to the N channel MOS transistor MN MIR. By coupling a drain and a control gate of the N channel MOS transistor MN MIR the diode coupling of the N channel MOS transistor MN MIR is established. The diode coupling N channel MOS transistor MN MIR of the bias circuit and the N channel MOS transistor MNI of the source line potential control circuit are coupled via a drain to source path of parallel coupled P channel MOS transistor and N channel MOS transistor serving as the CMOS transfer switch PASSTR. The control signal rsb is supplied to a control gate of the P channel MOS transistor of the CMOS transfer switch PASSTR and to an input terminal of the CMOS inverter INV PASS and an output signal of the CMOS inverter INV PASS is supplied to a control gate of the N channel MOS transistor of the CMOS transfer switch PASSTR. In a standby state the control signal rsb is set at a low level and the parallel coupled P channel MOS transistor and N channel MOS transistor of the CMOS transfer switch PASSTR are both set to an on state accordingly the diode coupling N channel MOS transistor MN MIR of the bias circuit and the N channel MOS transistor MNI of the source line potential control circuit form a current mirror.

In an active state of the SRAM module illustrated in the control signal cnt and the control signal rsb are set at a high level and a high level respectively and the power switch PWSW is set to an on state. Therefore the local power line vssm is set at the ground potential Vss and the peripheral circuit power switch PESW is also set to an on state accordingly the peripheral circuit peripheral is set to an active state. Furthermore the potential of the cell array source line arvss is set at the ground potential Vss due to the on state of the active power switch SW and the cell array cell array is also set to an active state accordingly it becomes possible to execute write operation or read operation of the SRAM module illustrated in .

In a standby state of the SRAM module illustrated in the control signal ibiase is first set at a low level and the P channel MOS transistor MP ICNT of the bias circuit is set to an on state. The control signal cnt the control signal rsb and the control signal rs are set to a high level a low level and a low level respectively accordingly the power switch PWSW is set to an on state the peripheral circuit power switch PESW is set to an off state the peripheral circuit peripheral is set in a standby state and the active power switch SW is set to an off state. Furthermore the potential of the cell array source line arvss is set at a level a little higher than the ground potential Vss by the operation of the current mirror which is formed by the diode coupling N channel MOS transistor MN MIR of the bias circuit and the N channel MOS transistor MNI of the source line potential control circuit. Therefore current of the cell array cell array is reduced to such an extent that retained data of the cell array are not destroyed.

In a deep standby state of the SRAM module illustrated in the control signal ibiase is set at a high level and the control signal rsb and the control signal rs are set at a low level and a high level respectively accordingly the peripheral circuit power switch PESW is set to an off state the bias circuit is set to an off state the deep standby switch MN is set to an on state and the N channel MOS transistor MNI is set to an off state. Therefore it is possible to reduce greatly the operating current of a cell array cell array of the SRAM module.

A semiconductor integrated circuit according to Embodiment 13 of the present invention illustrated in is different from the semiconductor integrated circuit according to Embodiment 12 of the present invention illustrated in only in the following points.

The first different point is that the parallel coupling of the active power switch SW and the N channel MOS transistor MNI of the source line potential control circuit of the semiconductor integrated circuit according to Embodiment 12 of the present invention illustrated in is replaced by a single N channel MOS transistor MN in the source line potential control circuit of the semiconductor integrated circuit according to Embodiment 13 of the present invention illustrated in .

Furthermore the second different point is that a P channel MOS transistor MP HOLD is added to the source line potential control circuit of the semiconductor integrated circuit according to Embodiment 13 of the present invention illustrated in and that a source and a control gate and a drain of the P channel MOS transistor MP HOLD are coupled to the power supply voltage Vdd the control signal rsb and a control gate of the N channel MOS transistor MN respectively.

In an active state of the SRAM module illustrated in the control signal cnt and the control signal rsb are set at a high level and a high level respectively and the power switch PWSW is set to an on state. Therefore the local power line vssm is set at the ground potential Vss and the peripheral circuit power switch PESW is set to an on state accordingly the peripheral circuit peripheral is set to an active state. Furthermore by the control signal rsb set at a high level the output signal of the CMOS inverter INV PASS is set at a low level and the P channel MOS transistor MP HOLD and the N channel MOS transistor MN are set to an on state. As the result the potential of the cell array source line arvss is set at the ground potential Vss and the cell array cell array is also set to an active state accordingly it is possible to execute write operation or read operation of the SRAM module illustrated in .

In a standby state of the SRAM module illustrated in the control signal ibiase is first set at a low level and the P channel MOS transistor MP ICNT of the bias circuit is set to an on state. The control signal cnt the control signal rsb and the control signal rs are set to a high level a low level and a low level respectively accordingly the power switch PWSW is set to an on state the peripheral circuit power switch PESW is set to an off state and the peripheral circuit peripheral is set in a standby state. By the control signal rsb set at a low level an output signal of the CMOS inverter INV PASS is set at a high level the P channel MOS transistor MP HOLD is set to an off state and the parallel coupled P channel MOS transistor and N channel MOS transistor of the CMOS transfer switch PASSTR are both set to an on state. Therefore the potential of the cell array source line arvss is set at a level a little higher than the ground potential Vss by the operation of the current mirror which is formed by the diode coupling N channel MOS transistor MN MIR of the bias circuit and the N channel MOS transistor MNI of the source line potential control circuit. Therefore current of the cell array cell array is reduced to such an extent that retained data of the cell array are not destroyed.

In a deep standby state of the SRAM module illustrated in the control signal ibiase is set at a high level the control signal rsb and the control signal rs are set at a low level and a high level respectively accordingly the peripheral circuit power switch PESW is set to an off state the bias circuit is set to an off state the deep standby switch MN is set to an on state and the N channel MOS transistor MNI is set to an off state. Therefore it is possible to reduce greatly the operating current of a cell array cell array of the SRAM module.

A semiconductor integrated circuit according to Embodiment 14 of the present invention illustrated in is different from the semiconductor integrated circuit according to Embodiment 13 of the present invention illustrated in only in the following point.

That is the difference is that a voltage monitoring circuit voltage monitor and a voltage divider circuit Rdd Rref Rss are added in a source line potential control circuit of the semiconductor integrated circuit according to Embodiment 14 of the present invention illustrated in .

Three voltage dividing resistors Rdd Rref and Rss of the voltage divider circuit are coupled in series between the power supply voltage Vdd and the local power line vssm and the potential difference across the middle voltage dividing resistor Rref is supplied to one difference input terminal of the voltage monitoring circuit voltage monitor . The potential difference between the power supply voltage Vdd of the cell array cell array and the cell array source line arvss is supplied to another difference input terminal of the voltage monitoring circuit voltage monitor .

Therefore the voltage monitoring circuit voltage monitor in a standby state compares the potential difference between the power supply voltage Vdd of the cell array cell array and the cell array source line arvss with the potential difference of the middle voltage dividing resistor Rref and controls a voltage level of the control signal ibiase supplied to the control gate of the P channel MOS transistor MP ICNT of the bias circuit so that both the potential differences agree with each other. That is the output control signal ibiase generated from a comparison output terminal out of the voltage monitoring circuit voltage monitor is supplied to a control gate of the P channel MOS transistor MP ICNT of the bias circuit.

Furthermore the voltage monitoring circuit voltage monitor can also detect a short circuit state between the power supply voltage Vdd and the cell array source line arvss of the cell array cell array . In the short circuit state the potential difference between the power supply voltage Vdd and the cell array source line arvss of the cell array cell array falls more markedly than the potential difference of the middle voltage dividing resistor Rref. A detection result of the short circuit state can be generated from another output terminal Vout of the voltage monitoring circuit voltage monitor .

A semiconductor integrated circuit according to Embodiment 15 of the present invention illustrated in is different from the semiconductor integrated circuit according to Embodiment 14 of the present invention illustrated in only in the following point.

That is the difference is that in a source line potential control circuit of the semiconductor integrated circuit according to Embodiment 15 of the present invention illustrated in the bottom voltage dividing resistor Rss of the voltage divider circuit of the source line potential control circuit of the semiconductor integrated circuit according to Embodiment 14 of the present invention illustrated in is replaced by an N channel MOS transistor SW REF and a CMOS inverter INV REF.

That is in the source line potential control circuit of the semiconductor integrated circuit according to Embodiment 15 of the present invention illustrated in a drain to source path of the N channel MOS transistor SW REF is coupled between the middle voltage dividing resistor Rref of the voltage divider circuit and the local power line vssm. A control gate of the N channel MOS transistor SW REF is coupled to an output terminal of the CMOS inverter INV REF and the control signal rsb is supplied to the input terminal of the CMOS inverter INV REF.

Therefore in an active state of the SRAM module illustrated in the control signal rsb is set at a high level and the N channel MOS transistor SW REF is set to an off state accordingly the consumption current of the voltage divider circuit is reduced. In a standby state and a deep standby state the control signal rsb is set at a low level and the N channel MOS transistor SW REF is set to an on state accordingly the operating current is supplied to the middle voltage dividing resistor Rref of the voltage divider circuit.

A semiconductor integrated circuit according to Embodiment 16 of the present invention illustrated in is different from the semiconductor integrated circuit according to Embodiment 11 of the present invention illustrated in only in the following point.

That is the difference is that in the semiconductor integrated circuit according to Embodiment 16 of the present invention illustrated in the bias circuit comprising the resistor RN the P channel MOS transistor MP ICNT and the N channel MOS transistor MN MIR which are coupled in series between the power supply voltage Vdd and the local power line vssm is shared by plural source line potential control circuits of plural SRAM modules Module and Module. The plural SRAM modules Module and Module may be the first and the second SRAM module SRAM SRAM the second and the third SRAM module SRAM SRAM or the first and the third SRAM module SRAM SRAM .

In the semiconductor integrated circuit according to Embodiment 16 of the present invention illustrated in an N channel MOS transistor MNI and a deep standby switch MNI are coupled in series between the local power line vssm and plural cell array source line arvss and arvss of plural cell arrays cell array of the plural SRAM modules Module and Module. The series coupled N channel MOS transistor MNI and deep standby switch MNI are shared by the plural source line potential control circuits of the plural cell arrays cell array of the plural SRAM modules Module and Module. A control gate of the shared N channel MOS transistor MNI is coupled to the N channel MOS transistor MN MIR of the bias circuit in the form of a current mirror. In this way in the semiconductor integrated circuit according to Embodiment 16 of the present invention illustrated in the bias circuit is shared by the plural SRAM modules. Therefore it is possible to reduce the number of bias circuits and the bias current.

A semiconductor integrated circuit according to Embodiment 17 of the present invention illustrated in is different from the semiconductor integrated circuit according to Embodiment 16 of the present invention illustrated in only in the following points.

The first difference is that in a source line potential control circuit of the semiconductor integrated circuit according to Embodiment 17 of the present invention illustrated in the deep standby switch MNI of the source line potential control circuit illustrated in is deleted and the source of the N channel MOS transistor MNI is directly coupled to the local power line vssm.

The second difference is that in the semiconductor integrated circuit according to Embodiment 17 of the present invention illustrated in a drain to source path of a first deep standby switch MNS M is coupled between the cell array source line arvss of the cell array cell array of the first SRAM module Module and the drain of the N channel MOS transistor MNI and that a drain to source path of a second deep standby switch MNS M is coupled between the cell array source line arvss of the cell array cell array of the second SRAM module Module and the drain of the N channel MOS transistor MNI.

In a deep standby state of the first SRAM module Module a control signal rsb is set at a low level and the first deep standby switch MNS M coupled between the cell array source line arvss of the cell array cell array of the first SRAM module Module and the drain of the N channel MOS transistor MNI is set to an off state. In a deep standby state of the second SRAM module Module a control signal rsb is set at a low level and the second deep standby switch MNS M coupled between the cell array source line arvss of the cell array cell array of the second SRAM module Module and the drain of the N channel MOS transistor MNI is set to an off state.

A semiconductor integrated circuit according to Embodiment 18 of the present invention illustrated in is different from the semiconductor integrated circuit according to Embodiment 3 of the present invention illustrated in only in the following points.

The first difference is that the deep standby switch which comprises a P channel MOS transistor coupled between the power supply voltage Vdd and the cell array cell array in comprises plural P channel MOS transistors MPSW MPSWm in .

The second difference is that the plural P channel MOS transistors MPSW MPSWm of the deep standby switch are respectively coupled to plural cell array source lines arvdd arvddm which are arranged in the column direction in the direction of a complementary bit line pair of the cell array cell array . Each cell array source line of the plural cell array source lines arvdd arvddm is coupled with each of plural memory cells MC arranged in the column direction in the direction of the complementary bit line pair of the cell array cell array .

The third difference is that plural control signals rspb rspbm are supplied to the control gates of the plural P channel MOS transistors MPSW MPSWm.

The standby current of all the memory cells MC included in one cell array cell array can be restricted by one resistor RN and one diode coupling MOS transistor MN of the source line potential control circuit.

In a deep standby state by a control signal set at a high level among the plural control signals rspb rspbm it is possible to cut off the current of a memory cell MC of a cell array source line which is coupled to a P channel MOS transistor in an off state among the plural P channel MOS transistors MPSW MPSWm.

A semiconductor integrated circuit according to Embodiment 19 of the present invention illustrated in is different from the semiconductor integrated circuit according to Embodiment 18 of the present invention illustrated in only in the following point.

That is the difference is that each SRAM module of the semiconductor integrated circuit according to Embodiment 19 of the present invention illustrated in adopts a two column multiplex system as is the case with each SRAM module of the semiconductor integrated circuit according to Embodiment 1 of the present invention illustrated in . Therefore in each SRAM module illustrated in two pairs of complementary bit line pairs are coupled to each selector SELECTOR SELECTOR n .

A drain to source path of a first P channel MOS transistor MPSW of the deep standby switch to the control gate of which the first control signal rspb is supplied is coupled between the power supply voltage Vdd and the first cell array source line arvdd of a memory cell MC which is coupled to the left hand first complementary bit line pair coupled to each selector SELECTOR SELECTOR n . When the first control signal rspb is set at a low level the first P channel MOS transistor MPSW is set to an on state and when the first control signal rspb is set at a high level the first P channel MOS transistor MPSW is set to an off state. In addition a drain to source path of a second P channel MOS transistor MPSW of the deep standby switch to the control gate of which the second control signal rspb is supplied is coupled between the power supply voltage Vdd and the second cell array source line arvdd of a memory cell MC which is coupled to the right hand second complementary bit line pair coupled to each selector SELECTOR SELECTOR n . When the second control signal rspb is set at a low level the second P channel MOS transistor MPSW is set to an on state and when the second control signal rspb is set at a high level the second P channel MOS transistor MPSW is set to an off state.

However even in Embodiment 19 of the present invention illustrated in as is the case with Embodiment 18 of the present invention illustrated in the standby current of all the memory cells MC included in one cell array cell array can be restricted by one resistor RN and one diode coupling MOS transistor MN of the source line potential control circuit.

In a semiconductor integrated circuit according to Embodiment 20 of the present invention although not illustrated in but as is the case with the semiconductor integrated circuit according to Embodiment 2 of the present invention illustrated in the local power line of the logic circuit logic and the local power line of the first SRAM module SRAM share the first local power line vssl and the local power line of the second SRAM module SRAM and the local power line of the third SRAM module SRAM share the second local power line vssm. The first power switch PWSW coupled between the shared first local power line vssl and the ground potential Vss is shared by the logic circuit logic and the first SRAM module SRAM . Furthermore the second power switch PWSW and the third power switch PWSW which are coupled between the shared second local power line vssm and the ground potential Vss are shared by the second SRAM module SRAM and the third SRAM module SRAM .

In the first SRAM module SRAM of the semiconductor integrated circuit according to Embodiment 20 of the present invention a peripheral circuit power switch PESW is coupled between the peripheral circuit peripheral and the first local power line vssl and a source line potential control circuit to be explained below is coupled between the cell array source line arvss of the cell array cell array and the first local power line vssl. Also in the second SRAM module SRAM a peripheral circuit power switch PESW is coupled between the peripheral circuit peripheral and the second local power line vssm and a source line potential control circuit to be explained below is coupled between the cell array source line arvss of the cell array cell array and the second local power line vssm. Furthermore also in the third SRAM module SRAM a peripheral circuit power switch PESW is coupled between the peripheral circuit peripheral and the second local power line vssm and a source line potential control circuit to be explained below is coupled between the cell array source line arvss of the cell array cell array and the second local power line vssm.

As illustrated in the source line potential control circuit of each SRAM module of three SRAM modules SRAM SRAM SRAM of the semiconductor integrated circuit according to Embodiment 20 of the present invention comprises a first source line potential control circuit and a second source line potential control circuit.

The first source line potential control circuit comprises a resistor RN a diode coupling N channel MOS transistor MN and a deep standby switch MN arranged between the cell array source line arvss and the local power line vssm. A parallel coupling body of the resistor RN and the diode coupling N channel MOS transistor MN is coupled with the deep standby switch MN in series. A deep standby control signal rcut is supplied to a control gate of the deep standby switch MN. In a deep standby state the deep standby control signal rcut is set at a low level and the deep standby switch MN is set to an off state. A P well of the diode coupling N channel MOS transistor MN is coupled to a source.

The second source line potential control circuit comprises a resistor RN a diode coupling N channel MOS transistor MN and a deep standby switch MN arranged between the cell array source line arvss and the local power line vssm. A parallel coupling body of the resistor RN and the diode coupling N channel MOS transistor MN is coupled with the deep standby switch MN in series. A deep standby control signal rcut is supplied to a control gate of the deep standby switch MN. In a deep standby state the deep standby control signal rcut is set at a low level and the deep standby switch MN is set to an off state. A P well of the diode coupling N channel MOS transistor MN is coupled to the local power line Vssm.

In a semiconductor integrated circuit according to Embodiment 21 of the present invention although not illustrated in but as is the case with the semiconductor integrated circuit according to Embodiment 2 of the present invention illustrated in the local power line of the logic circuit logic and the local power line of the first SRAM module SRAM share the first local power line vssl and the local power line of the second SRAM module SRAM and the local power line of the third SRAM module SRAM share the second local power line vssm. The first power switch PWSW coupled between the shared first local power line vssl and the ground potential Vss is shared by the logic circuit logic and the first SRAM module SRAM . Furthermore the second power switch PWSW and the third power switch PWSW which are coupled between the shared second local power line vssm and the ground potential Vss are shared by the second SRAM module SRAM and the third SRAM module SRAM .

In the first SRAM module SRAM of the semiconductor integrated circuit according to Embodiment 21 of the present invention illustrated in a peripheral circuit power switch PESW is coupled between the peripheral circuit peripheral and the first local power line vssl and an active power switch SW and a ground side source line potential control circuit to be explained below are coupled between the cell array source line arvss of the cell array cell array and the first local power line vssl. Also in the second SRAM module SRAM a peripheral circuit power switch PESW is coupled between the peripheral circuit peripheral and the second local power line vssm and an active power switch SW and a ground side source line potential control circuit to be explained below are coupled between the cell array source line arvss of the cell array cell array and the second local power line vssm. Furthermore also in the third SRAM module SRAM a peripheral circuit power switch PESW is coupled between the peripheral circuit peripheral and the second local power line vssm and an active power switch SW and a ground side source line potential control circuit to be explained below are coupled between the cell array source line arvss of the cell array cell array and the second local power line vssm.

Furthermore in the first SRAM module SRAM of the semiconductor integrated circuit according to Embodiment 21 of the present invention illustrated in an active power switch SWP and a power supply side source line potential control circuit to be explained below are coupled between the cell array source line arvdd of the cell array cell array and the power supply voltage Vdd. Also in the second SRAM module SRAM an active power switch SWP and a power supply side source line potential control circuit to be explained below are coupled between the cell array source line arvdd of the cell array cell array and the power supply voltage Vdd. Furthermore also in the third SRAM module SRAM an active power switch SWP and a power supply side source line potential control circuit to be explained below are coupled between the cell array source line arvdd of the cell array cell array and the power supply voltage Vdd.

As illustrated in the source line potential control circuit on the ground side of each SRAM module of three SRAM modules SRAM SRAM SRAM of the semiconductor integrated circuit according to Embodiment 21 of the present invention comprises a resistor RN a diode coupling N channel MOS transistor MN and a deep standby switch MN arranged between the cell array source line arvss and the local power line vssm. A parallel coupling body of the resistor RN and the diode coupling N channel MOS transistor MN is coupled with the deep standby switch MN in series. A control signal rs is supplied to a control gate of the deep standby switch MN. In a deep standby state the control signal rs is set at a low level and the deep standby switch MN is set to an off state. A P well of the diode coupling N channel MOS transistor MN is coupled to the local power line vssm.

As illustrated in the source line potential control circuit on the power supply side of each SRAM module of three SRAM modules SRAM SRAM SRAM of the semiconductor integrated circuit according to Embodiment 21 of the present invention comprises a resistor RP a diode coupling P channel MOS transistor MP and a deep standby switch MP arranged between the cell array source line arvdd and the power supply voltage Vdd. A parallel coupling body of the resistor RP and the diode coupling P channel MOS transistor MP is coupled with the deep standby switch MP in series. A control signal rsp is supplied to a control gate of the deep standby switch MP. In a deep standby state the control signal rsp is set at a high level and the deep standby switch MP is set to an off state. An N well of the diode coupling P channel MOS transistor MP is coupled to the power supply voltage Vdd.

In an active state of the SRAM module illustrated in the control signal cnt the control signal rs the control signal rs the control signal rsp and the control signal rsp are set at a high level a high level a high level a low level and a low level respectively.

Therefore the power switch PWSW the peripheral circuit power switch PESW and the active power switches SW and SWP are set to an on state the deep standby switch MN of the source line potential control circuit on the ground side is set to an on state and the deep standby switch MP of the source line potential control circuit on the power supply side is set to an on state.

Therefore the local power line vssm is set at the ground potential Vss and the peripheral circuit power switch PESW is set to an on state accordingly the peripheral circuit peripheral is set to an active state. Furthermore the potential of the power source side cell array source line arvdd is set at the power supply voltage Vdd the potential of the ground side cell array source line arvss is set at the ground potential Vss and the cell array cell array is also set to an active state accordingly it is possible to execute write operation or read operation of the SRAM module illustrated in .

In a standby state of the SRAM module illustrated in the control signal cnt the control signal rs the control signal rs the control signal rsp and the control signal rsp are set at a high level a low level a high level a high level and a low level respectively.

Therefore the power switch PWSW the peripheral circuit power switch PESW and the active power switches SW and SWP are set to an off state accordingly the peripheral circuit peripheral is set in a standby state. The deep standby switch MN of the source line potential control circuit on the ground side is set to an on state and the deep standby switch MP of the source line potential control circuit of the power supply side is set to an on state. Furthermore in the source line potential control circuit on the ground side the potential of the cell array source line arvss is set at a level a little higher than the ground potential Vss due to the diode operation of the N channel MOS transistor MN. In the source line potential control circuit on the power supply side the potential of the cell array source line arvdd is set at a level a little lower than the power supply voltage Vdd due to the diode operation of the P channel MOS transistor MP. Accordingly current of the cell array cell array is reduced to such an extent that retained data of the cell array are not destroyed.

In a deep standby state of the SRAM module illustrated in the control signal cnt the control signal rs the control signal rs the control signal rsp and the control signal rsp are set at a high level a low level a low level a high level and a high level respectively.

Therefore the power switch PWSW the peripheral circuit power switch PESW and the active power switches SW and SWP are set to an off state. The deep standby switch MN of the source line potential control circuit on the ground side is set to an off state and the deep standby switch MP of the source line potential control circuit on the power supply side is set to an off state. As the result it is possible to reduce greatly the operating current of a cell array cell array of the SRAM module.

A semiconductor integrated circuit according to Embodiment 22 of the present invention illustrated in is different from the semiconductor integrated circuit according to Embodiment 20 of the present invention illustrated in only in the following point.

That is the difference is that in each SRAM module of the semiconductor integrated circuit according to Embodiment 20 of the present invention illustrated in the resistor RN the diode coupling N channel MOS transistor MN and the deep standby switch MN are omitted from the second source line potential control circuit coupled between the local power line vssm and the cell array source line arvss of each SRAM module of the semiconductor integrated circuit according to Embodiment 20 of the present invention illustrated in .

A semiconductor integrated circuit according to Embodiment 23 of the present invention illustrated in is different from the semiconductor integrated circuit according to Embodiment 22 of the present invention illustrated in only in the following point.

That is the difference is that the P well of the diode coupling N channel MOS transistor MN of the source line potential control circuit of each SRAM module of three SRAM modules SRAM SRAM SRAM included in the semiconductor integrated circuit according to Embodiment 23 of the present invention illustrated in is coupled to the local power line vssm instead of the source.

A semiconductor chip of the semiconductor integrated circuit illustrated in comprises a first central processing unit CPU and a second central processing unit CPU which form a multiple processor and an image processing unit Video and an audio processing unit Audio for moving image encoding decoding of MPEG2 MPEG Moving Picture Expert Group .

Each unit of the first central processing unit CPU the second central processing unit CPU the image processing unit Video and the audio processing unit Audio comprises three built in SRAM modules SRAM SRAM SRAM according to one of Embodiment 1 through Embodiment 23 of the present invention described above. In each unit the amount of saved data in a deep standby state of the built in SRAM modules SRAM SRAM SRAM of each unit changes depending on the operating states of each unit.

According to the semiconductor integrated circuit according to Embodiment 24 of the present invention illustrated in it becomes possible to respond suitably to such a change of the amount of saved data in a deep standby state.

As described above the invention accomplished by the present inventors has been concretely explained based on various embodiments. However it cannot be overemphasized that the present invention is not restricted to the embodiments and it can be changed variously in the range which does not deviate from the gist.

For example in the semiconductor integrated circuit according to Embodiment 2 of the present invention illustrated in or Embodiment 4 of the present invention illustrated in it is possible to omit either one of the second power switch PWSW or the third power switch PWSW which are coupled between the ground potential Vss and the second local power line vssm shared by the second SRAM module SRAM and the third SRAM module SRAM .

Furthermore in addition to the semiconductor integrated circuit employed for moving image encoding decoding illustrated in the present invention can be applied to various system on a chips SoC for example which are usable to various applications such as plural central processing units which form a multiple processor for engine control of a car a micro controller which has an A D converter or a D A converter built in and others.

