---

title: Crowdsourcing platforms, systems, and methods for generating environmental data reports
abstract: The platforms, systems, methods and computer readable media provided herein monitor a shore or near shore environment using a plurality of sensors, each sensor associated with a near shore water recreationist or near shore water recreationist equipment. The platforms, systems, methods and computer readable media provided herein include a server application configured to generate and transmit an environmental data report. The platforms, systems, methods and computer readable media provided herein include a device configured to receive the environmental data report.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09223057&OS=09223057&RS=09223057
owner: BLUE TRIBE, INC.
number: 09223057
owner_city: Solana Beach
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150317
---
This application claims priority to U.S. application Ser. No. 14 498 727 filed Sep. 26 2014 which is incorporated herein by reference.

Shore and near shore environmental data is important for several reasons. Shore and near shore environmental data provides useful information for water recreationalists and ocean sports enthusiasts. Moreover shore and near shore environmental data provides critical insights for understanding and protecting the coastal environment and monitoring climate change.

Current information detailing a shore and near shore environment e.g. wave heights etc. are generated using data that is geographically removed from the shore and near shore area. Devices such as buoys are used to collect data for example wave height and or energy data at a location that is geographically distant from the shore and near shore area. In order to generate an estimation of the shore and near shore environment the collected data is manipulated for example the data is interpolated extrapolated correction factors added or subtracted and or modeled based on an assumed topology of the shore or near shore area.

As an example NOAA places buoys in the ocean to collect wave data that is far removed from the shore. This data for example is used along with assumptions of the ocean floor topology to predict wave heights. The ocean floor topology will affect the location of a wave break and the water height in which the wave break occurs. Persons interested in performing an activity in a shore or near shore environment e.g. surfers bodyboarders etc. use this information to select the coastal region to undertake the activity e.g. surfing bodyboarding etc. . Such methods of determining a shore and near shore environment are erroneous because for example the topology of the ocean floor changes and as such the assumptions made in order to provide shore and near shore environmental information are erroneous when such changes are not taken into account.

The subject matter described herein overcomes such problems using systems methods media and platforms that collect shore and near shore environmental data based on activities of one or more recreationists at the location of interest. In one example the data is collected in real time so that for example the data detailing the shore and near shore environment is location and time accurate. In one or an additional example such shore and near shore environmental data is stored historically such that the changes can be tracked and used to generate more accurate reports e.g. surf reports .

Current tracking devices are used to monitor a variety of user data comprising heart rate pulse calories burned gps location and speed of travel. While these data have been collected to monitor various user activities e.g. exercise the inventor of the subject matter described herein applies such data to monitor a shore and near shore environment. Further in one example the methods media systems and platforms described herein use a plurality of data from a plurality of devices to generate reports detailing a shore and near shore environment. In some embodiments a plurality of devices and the data is used in a crowdsourced manner. The systems methods media and platforms described herein in some embodiments directly monitor in real time the shore and near shore environment so that accurate reports based user activities are generated. In some embodiments data from other sources e.g. NOAA buoys are also incorporated to generate a report on the shore and near shore environment.

Sensors used to monitor a shore and near shore environment are attached to devices comprising buoys and drones. As stated above the buoys are placed at a geographically distant location making the data collected on the shore and near shore environment less accurate. Drones are sometimes placed near the shore or near shore environment however they are often disturbed by conditions of the shore and near shore environment e.g. drift away from site of interest making the data less accurate and making reports generated therefrom erroneous. The inventor of the subject matter described herein solves this problem by using data collected from sensors attached to for example one or more shore or near shore water recreationists and or one or more pieces of shore or near shore water recreationist equipment. This allows for accurate geographical e.g. surfer riding a wave a surfer transitioning from walking to paddling etc. and temporal data to be collected and generation of accurate reports therefrom.

In some aspects provided herein is a shore and near shore environmental data monitoring platform comprising a plurality of sensors each sensor associated with a near shore water recreationist or near shore water recreationist equipment each sensor comprising a detector configured to collect environmental data pertaining to a shore and near shore environment and a communications element configured to transmit the environmental data collected by the detector a server comprising a server processor configured to provide a server application comprising a software module configured to receive the environmental data a software module configured to apply an algorithm to the environmental data to determine a shore and near shore environmental condition a software module configured to generate an environmental data report comprising the shore and near shore environmental condition and a software module configured to transmit the environmental data report and a device comprising a report processor configured to provide a report application comprising a software module configured to receive the environmental data report.

In some embodiments the detector comprises one or more of an accelerometer a gyroscope a compass a clock or other time monitoring device a GPS and an altimeter. In some embodiments the detector comprises an element configured to determine a condition of the shore or near shore environment the condition comprising temperature pH salinity turbidity light or clarity. In some embodiments the detector comprises an element configured to monitor bio matter of the shore or near shore environment the bio matter comprising bacteria algae fungi or plankton. In some embodiments the detector comprises an element to monitor pollution of the shore or near shore environment the pollution comprising hydrocarbons radiation or chemicals. In some embodiments the detector comprises a location element configured to determine the location of the sensor the location element comprising a GPS.

In some embodiments one or more sensors are wearable. In some embodiments one or more sensors are water resistant. In some embodiments the platform comprises more than 1 more than 10 more than 100 more than 1000 more than 10 000 more than 100 000 or more than 1 000 000 sensors.

In some embodiments the server application further comprises a software module configured to parse and clean the environmental data received from each sensor the cleaning comprising removing erroneous data removing outlier data flagging erroneous data interpolating missing data and flagging outlier data. In some embodiments the server application further comprises a software module configured to apply an algorithm to the cleaned environmental data to generate pre analytic data the pre analytic data comprising events and conditions to which each sensor was subjected. In some embodiments the server application further comprises a software module configured to apply an algorithm to a set of pre analytic data to generate analytic data the analytic data comprising trends of a plurality of events correlations of a plurality of events trends of a plurality of conditions correlations of a plurality of conditions trends of a plurality of events and conditions or correlations of a plurality of trends and conditions. In some embodiments the pre analytic data comprises user behavior comprising one or more of walking paddling swimming floating dropping into a wave riding a wave wiping out or exiting a wave. In some embodiments the pre analytic data comprises near shore dynamics comprising one or more of shore exposure sea level rise wave position wave travel direction wave travel speed wave and set timing wave kinetic energy wave potential energy wave break energy shore current speed shore current direction wave heights and wave phase. In some embodiments the pre analytic data comprises a water condition comprising one or more of temperature pH turbidity salinity and clarity. In some embodiments the pre analytic data comprises bio matter data comprising one or more of a plankton concentration a bacterium concentration a fungi concentration and or an algae concentration. In some embodiments the pre analytic data comprises pollution data comprising one or more of hydrocarbon concentration radiation level and toxic chemical concentration. In some embodiments the analytic data comprises one or more of user behavior analyzed over time near shore dynamics analyzed over time water condition analyzed over time bio matter data analyzed over time and pollution data analyzed over time. In some embodiments the analytic data comprises one or more of user behavior analyzed in aggregate near shore dynamics analyzed in aggregate water condition analyzed in aggregate bio matter data analyzed in aggregate and pollution data analyzed in aggregate. In some embodiments the analytic data comprises surf report features comprising one or more of surf condition surf condition difficulty level surf location quality surf location conditions compared to historical potential and surf location current ranking compared to other surf locations. In some embodiments the server application further comprises a software module configured to apply an algorithm to the environmental data to determine one or more of surf location difficulty level surf location quality and surf location current ranking as compared to other surf locations. In some embodiments the server application further comprises a software module configured to apply an algorithm to the environmental data to determine one or more of surfer wipeouts surfer wave take rate and surfer travel direction in a wave.

In some embodiments the environmental data report is a surf report comprising one or more of wave height wave frequency wave and set timing wave speed current speed and direction surf conditions and surf quality. The platform according to claim wherein the environmental data report is a surf report comprising one or more of surf location difficulty level surf location quality surf location conditions compared to historic potential surf location current ranking as compared to other surf locations wave frequency wave and set timing wave speed current speed and direction surf condition and surf condition difficulty level. In some embodiments the environmental data report is a meteorological report wherein the meteorological report comprises one or more of weather information tide information water condition wave height wave speed wave frequency and timing current surf conditions and surf quality. In some embodiments the environmental data report is a geographical report the geographical report comprising one or more of sea level rise coastline changes and shore and near shore topology. In some embodiments the environmental data report is an ecological report the ecological report comprising one or more of erosion bio matter data pollution and water composition. In some embodiments the environmental data report is a municipal report the municipal report comprising information related to infrastructure development transportation residential development and adaptation. In some embodiments the environmental data report comprises one or more of a surf report a meteorological report a geographical report an ecological report and a municipal report.

In some embodiments the near shore water recreationist comprises a surfer a paddle boarder a body boarder a boogie boarder a kayaker a swimmer or a person in the water. In some embodiments the near shore water recreationist is a surfer. In some embodiments the sensor is worn by the near shore water recreationist the sensor worn on a wrist an armband a piece of clothing a wet suit a piece of footwear or a piece of swimwear. In some embodiments the near shore water recreationist equipment comprises a surfboard a kayak a paddle board a body board a raft an inner tube or a flotation device. In some embodiments the near shore water recreationist equipment is a surfboard.

In some embodiments the communications element is configured to transmit the environmental data to the software module configured to receive the environmental data. In some embodiments the communications element is configured to transmit the environmental data to a computational device the computational device comprising a communications element configured to transmit the environmental data to the software module configured to receive the environmental data. In some embodiments the computational device further comprises a processor configured to provide an application comprising a software module configured to apply an algorithm to the environmental data received from the sensor to clean the environmental data the cleaned environmental data transmitted to the server. In some embodiments the raw data is also transmitted to the server. In some embodiments the computational device further comprises a processor configured to provide an application comprising a software module configured to apply an algorithm to the cleaned environmental data to generate pre analytic data the pre analytic data transmitted to the server. In some embodiments the sensor transmits the environmental data to the computational device wirelessly. In some embodiments the sensor transmits the environmental data to the computational device through a wired connection. In some embodiments the device comprises the sensor the device comprising a communications element configured to transmit the environmental data to the software module configured to receive the environmental data. In some embodiments the device further comprises a processor configured to provide an application comprising a software module configured to apply an algorithm to clean the environmental data the cleaned environmental data transmitted to the server. In some embodiments the raw data is also transmitted to the server. In some embodiments the device further comprises a processor configured to provide an application comprising a software module configured to apply an algorithm to the cleaned environmental data to generate pre analytic data the pre analytic data transmitted to the server.

In some embodiments the device comprises the sensor the device comprising a communication module to transmit the environmental data to a computational device the computational device comprising a communication module configured to transmit the environmental data to the software module configured to receive the environmental data. In some embodiments the computational device further comprises a processor configured to provide an application comprising a software module configured to apply an algorithm to the environmental data received from the sensor to clean the environmental data the cleaned environmental data transmitted to the server. In some embodiments the raw data is also transmitted to the server. In some embodiments the computational device further comprises a processor configured to provide an application comprising a software module configured to apply an algorithm to the cleaned environmental data to generate pre analytic data the pre analytic data transmitted to the server. In some embodiments the device transmits the environmental data to the computational device wirelessly. In some embodiments the device transmits the environmental data to the computational device through a wired connection. In some embodiments the device comprises a cellular phone a smart phone a smart watch a computer a tablet computer a Rip Curl surf watch a Xensr Move a Fit Bit an activity tracking device or a personal activity or health tracking device. In some embodiments the computational device comprises a computer a cellular phone a smart phone a tablet or a smart watch.

In some embodiments the server processor is configured to provide an application to receive environmental data from an external institution. In some embodiments the external institution comprises a government research facility a research institute a university a college a corporation a non government organization or a non profit entity.

In some embodiments the platform further comprises an application programming interface the application programming interface providing access to the environmental data. In some embodiments the platform further comprises an application programming interface the application programming interface providing access to the cleaned or pre analytic data. In some embodiments the platform further comprises an application programming interface the application programming interface providing access to the analytic data. In some embodiments the platform further comprises a graphical user interface the graphical user interface providing access to the environmental data. In some embodiments the platform further comprises a graphical user interface the graphical user interface providing access to the cleaned pre analytic data. In some embodiments the platform further comprises a graphical user interface the graphical user interface providing access to the analytic data.

In some embodiments the report processor is further configured to provide an application to provide an interface to display the environmental data report. In some embodiments the report processor is further configured to provide an application comprising a software module configured to retrieve from the server one or more of the environmental data or the shore and near shore environmental condition. In some embodiments the environmental data report is generated in real time or is generated according to a timed delay. In some embodiments the device is a cellular phone a smart phone a smart watch a tablet computer a laptop computer a personal computer an activity tracking device or a personal activity tracking device. In some embodiments the device is a cellular phone a smart phone a smart watch a tablet computer a laptop computer a personal computer an activity tracking device or a personal activity tracking device. In some embodiments the report processor is further configured to provide an application to provide an interface to display the environmental data report.

In one aspect provided herein is a shore and near shore environmental data monitoring platform comprising a plurality of sensors each sensor associated with a surfer or surf equipment each sensor comprising a detector comprising an accelerometer a gyroscope a compass an altimeter and a location element configured to determine the location of the sensor the detector configured to collect environmental data pertaining to the shore and near shore environment when the surfer is surfing and a communications element configured to transmit the environmental data collected by the detector a server comprising a server processor configured to provide a server application comprising a software module configured to receive the environmental data from the plurality of sensors a software module configured to clean the environmental data received from each sensor the cleaning comprising removing erroneous data removing outlier data flagging erroneous data interpolating missing data and flagging outlier data a software module configured to apply an algorithm to the environmental data received from each sensor to generate pre analytic data comprising one or more of shore exposure wave height wave position wave travel direction wave travel speed wave timing set timing wave kinetic energy wave potential energy wave break energy shore current speed shore current direction and wave phase a software module configured to apply an algorithm to a set of pre analytic data to generate analytic data comprising one or more of surf report features comprising surf condition surf condition difficulty level surf location wave quality surf location current conditions compared to historical potential and surf location current ranking as compared to other surf locations and a software module configured to generate an environmental data report comprising one or more pieces of analytic data and a software module configured to transmit the environmental data report and an external device comprising a report processor configured to provide a report application comprising a software module configured to receive the environmental data report and a software module configured to provide an interface configured to display the environmental data report.

In one aspect provided herein is a computer implemented system for shore and near shore environmental data monitoring the system comprising a digital processing device comprising an operating system configured to perform executable instructions and a memory a computer program including instructions executable by the digital processing device to create an application comprising a software module configured to receive environmental data from a plurality of sensors each sensor associated with a near shore water recreationist or near shore water recreationist equipment each sensor comprising a detector configured to collect environmental data pertaining to the shore and near shore environment and a communications element configured to transmit the environmental data collected by the detector a software module configured to apply an algorithm to the environmental data to determine a shore and near shore environmental condition a software module configured to generate an environmental data report comprising the shore and near shore environmental condition and a software module configured to transmit the environmental data report wherein the environmental data report is transmitted to a device comprising a report processor configured to provide a report application comprising a software module configured to receive the environmental data report.

In one aspect provided herein is Non transitory computer readable storage media encoded with a computer program including instructions executable by a processor to create an application comprising a software module configured to receive environmental data from a plurality of sensors each sensor associated with a near shore water recreationist or near shore water recreationist equipment each sensor comprising a detector configured to collect environmental data pertaining to the shore and near shore environment and a communications element configured to transmit the environmental data collected by the detector a software module configured to apply an algorithm to the environmental data to determine a shore and near shore environmental condition a software module configured to generate an environmental data report comprising the shore and near shore environmental condition and a software module configured to transmit the environmental data report wherein the environmental data report is transmitted to a device comprising a report processor configured to provide a report application comprising a software module configured to receive the environmental data report.

In certain aspects described herein are platforms systems methods and computer readable media to monitor a shore and near shore environment. In some embodiments the platforms systems methods and media comprise a plurality of sensors each sensor associated with a near shore water recreationist or near shore water recreationist equipment each sensor comprising a detector configured to collect environmental data pertaining to a shore and near shore environment and a communications element configured to transmit the environmental data collected by the detector a server comprising a server processor configured to provide a server application comprising a software module configured to receive the environmental data a software module configured to apply an algorithm to the environmental data to determine a shore and near shore environmental condition a software module configured to generate an environmental data report comprising the shore and near shore environmental condition and a software module configured to transmit the environmental data report and a device comprising a report processor configured to provide a report application comprising a software module configured to receive the environmental data report.

In some aspects described herein is a shore and near shore environmental data monitoring platform comprising a plurality of sensors each sensor associated with a near shore water recreationist or near shore water recreationist equipment each sensor comprising a detector configured to collect environmental data pertaining to a shore and near shore environment and a communications element configured to transmit the environmental data collected by the detector a server comprising a server processor configured to provide a server application comprising a software module configured to receive the environmental data a software module configured to apply an algorithm to the environmental data to determine a shore and near shore environmental condition a software module configured to generate an environmental data report comprising the shore and near shore environmental condition and a software module configured to transmit the environmental data report and a device comprising a report processor configured to provide a report application comprising a software module configured to receive the environmental data report.

In some aspects described herein is a computer implemented system for shore and near shore environmental data monitoring the system comprising a digital processing device comprising an operating system configured to perform executable instructions and a memory a computer program including instructions executable by the digital processing device to create an application comprising a software module configured to receive environmental data from a plurality of sensors each sensor associated with a near shore water recreationist or near shore water recreationist equipment each sensor comprising a detector configured to collect environmental data pertaining to the shore and near shore environment and a communications element configured to transmit the environmental data collected by the detector a software module configured to apply an algorithm to the environmental data to determine a shore and near shore environmental condition a software module configured to generate an environmental data report comprising the shore and near shore environmental condition and a software module configured to transmit the environmental data report wherein the environmental data report is transmitted to a device comprising a report processor configured to provide a report application comprising a software module configured to receive the environmental data report.

In some aspects described herein are non transitory computer readable storage media encoded with a computer program including instructions executable by a processor to create an application comprising a software module configured to receive environmental data from a plurality of sensors each sensor associated with a near shore water recreationist or near shore water recreationist equipment each sensor comprising a detector configured to collect environmental data pertaining to the shore and near shore environment and a communications element configured to transmit the environmental data collected by the detector a software module configured to apply an algorithm to the environmental data to determine a shore and near shore environmental condition a software module configured to generate an environmental data report comprising the shore and near shore environmental condition and a software module configured to transmit the environmental data report wherein the environmental data report is transmitted to a device comprising a report processor configured to provide a report application comprising a software module configured to receive the environmental data report.

In some aspects described herein is a shore and near shore environmental data monitoring platform comprising a plurality of sensors each sensor associated with a surfer or surf equipment each sensor comprising a detector comprising an accelerometer a gyroscope a compass an altimeter and a location element configured to determine the location of the sensor the detector configured to collect environmental data pertaining to the shore and near shore environment when the surfer is surfing and a communications element configured to transmit the environmental data collected by the detector a server comprising a server processor configured to provide a server application comprising a software module configured to receive the environmental data from the plurality of sensors a software module configured to clean the environmental data received from each sensor the cleaning comprising removing erroneous data removing outlier data flagging erroneous data interpolating missing data and flagging outlier data a software module configured to apply an algorithm to the environmental data received from each sensor to generate pre analytic data comprising one or more of shore exposure wave position wave height direction or wave breaking wave direction wave travel speed wave timing set timing wave kinetic energy wave potential energy breaking wave energy water current speed water current direction wave phase and user activity comprising one or more of wipeout walking paddling wave riding swimming a software module configured to apply an algorithm to a set of pre analytic data to generate analytic data comprising one or more of surf report features comprising surf condition surf condition difficulty level surf location wave quality surf location current conditions compared to historical potential and surf location current ranking as compared to other surf locations and a software module configured to generate an environmental data report comprising one or more pieces of analytic data and a software module configured to transmit the environmental data report and an external device comprising a report processor configured to provide a report application comprising a software module configured to receive the environmental data report and a software module configured to provide an interface configured to display the environmental data report.

In some aspects provided here is a computer implemented system for shore and near shore environmental data monitoring the system comprising a digital processing device comprising an operating system configured to perform executable instructions and a memory a computer program including instructions executable by the digital processing device to create an application comprising a software module configured to receive environmental data from a plurality of sensors each sensor associated with a surfer or surfboard each sensor a detector comprising an accelerometer a gyroscope a compass an altimeter and a location element configured to determine the location of the sensor the detector configured to collect environmental data pertaining to the shore and near shore environment when the surfer is surfing and a communications element configured to transmit the environmental data collected by the detector a software module configured to clean the environmental data received from each sensor the cleaning comprising removing erroneous data removing outlier data flagging erroneous data interpolating missing data and flagging outlier data a software module configured to apply an algorithm to a set of pre analytic data comprising one or more of shore exposure wave position wave travel direction wave travel speed wave timing set timing wave kinetic energy wave potential energy wave break energy shore current speed shore current direction and wave phase and user activity comprising one or more of wipeout walking paddling wave riding swimming a software module configured to apply an algorithm to a set of pre analytic data to generate analytic data comprising one or more of surf report features comprising surf condition surf condition difficulty level surf location wave quality surf location current conditions compared to historical potential and surf location ranking as compared to other surfing locations a software module configured to generate an environmental data report comprising one or more pieces of analytic data and a software module configured to transmit the environmental data report wherein the environmental data report is transmitted to an external device comprising a report processor configured to provide a report application comprising a software module configured to receive the environmental data report and a software module configured to provide an interface configured to display the environmental data report.

In some aspects provided here is a non transitory computer readable storage media encoded with a computer program including instructions executable by a processor to create an application comprising a software module configured to receive environmental data from a plurality of sensors each sensor associated with a surfer or surfboard each sensor comprising a detector comprising an accelerometer a gyroscope a compass an altimeter and a location element configured to determine the location of the sensor the detector configured to collect environmental data pertaining to the shore and near shore environment when the surfer is surfing and a communications element configured to transmit the environmental data collected by the detector a software module configured to clean the environmental data received from each sensor the cleaning comprising removing erroneous data removing outlier data flagging erroneous data interpolating missing data and flagging outlier data a software module configured to apply an algorithm to a set of pre analytic data comprising one or more of shore exposure wave position wave travel direction wave travel speed wave timing set timing wave kinetic energy wave potential energy wave break energy shore current speed shore current direction and wave phase and user activity comprising one or more of wipeout walking paddling wave riding swimming a software module configured to apply an algorithm to a set of pre analytic data to generate analytic data comprising one or more of surf report features comprising surf condition surf condition difficulty level surf location wave quality surf location current conditions compared to historical potential and surf location current conditions ranking as compared to other surf locations a software module configured to generate an environmental data report comprising one or more pieces of analytic data and a software module configured to transmit the environmental data report wherein the environmental data report is transmitted to an external device comprising a report processor configured to provide a report application comprising a software module configured to receive the environmental data report and a software module configured to provide an interface configured to display the environmental data report.

In some aspects described here are platforms systems methods and media that non invasively collect ocean data by crowdsourcing one or more near shore water recreationists and or one or more pieces of near shore water recreationist equipment. In some embodiments the platforms systems methods and media crowdsource data from surfers and other people in the water wearing activity monitors aggregate the data onto a remote server via a network or a cloud and use proprietary methods on the sensor server or a connected secondary computing platform to calculate surf and other oceanographic conditions. In some embodiments data is aggregated for multiple locations and in historical catalogs. In some embodiments the platforms systems methods and media described herein are asynchronous or synchronous. In some embodiments asynchronous data is stored by the sensor or a device with sensors such as a smartphone and uploaded via an app or other method such as connecting with computer once the surfer gets out of the water and is in proximity to a smartphone laptop designated location a hot spot or some other network. In some embodiments asynchronous data is uploaded in real time or with a reasonable delay while the data is gathered. In some embodiments the transmission method is a cellular network or a specialized microcellular network locate on shore or in the ocean.

In some embodiments it is not necessary for all near shore water recreationists for example surfers in an area to have sensors in order to draw conclusions about that area most water recreationists tend to move around in an activity area or operational area OA that overlaps with other water recreationists. In some embodiments because ocean waves have a regular shape and characteristic phase cycle it can be inferred that certain environmental events or phenomena such as waves occur in a certain sequence and within a certain span of area even if only one part is sampled by an individual or group of individuals. In some embodiments data is uploaded to a server that cleans the data checks for validity and adjusts or corrects errors if necessary and curates the data on a managed storage device. In some embodiments an API facilitates reading data to and from the database by other apps or software including third party clients . In certain embodiments processing of environmental data pertaining to a shore and near shore environment occurs on the sensor itself smart sensor or via an intermediary that reads the data from the sensor and or on the server that ingests raw data from a dumb sensor with telemetry capabilities.

In some embodiments there are two types of sensing schemes with a group of surfer individuals in the water wearing activity sensors spatial sensing and temporal sensing. In certain embodiments in spatial sensing at any given time t the location of different sensors in the water is aggregated to derive a state of a defined area. In some embodiments a surfer sitting on the outside is drifting due to a current another surfer is paddling through a wave with a particular velocity and force and another surfer is surfing the same wave with a different velocity and height. At the same time on another wave in another position other surfers are recording different states unique to that wave.

In some embodiments in temporal sensing as an individual surfer moves through an operational area over time the surfer encounters various conditions and events that are recorded. In some embodiments the surfer starts out walking and then paddling through white water of a broken wave close to shore. In some embodiments as the surfer heads out the surfer duck dives under a wave with particular force and velocity. In some embodiments the surfer then encounters yet another wave unbroken of a particular velocity height etc. In some embodiments the temporal sensing works no matter which way a surfer is going for example paddling out surfing sitting in one place and or drifting as the current carries the surfer in a particular direction at a particular speed. From these events various characteristics from topography to dynamics of the coastline and near shore waters are determined.

In some aspects described herein are platforms systems methods and media for determining shore exposure from multiple directly sampled randomly originated data points. In some embodiments shore exposure is a relative indicator of the boundary between the swash zone and surf zone. In some embodiments the platforms systems methods and media determine how much of the beach is exposed by examining how much the water line has moved onshore. In some embodiments for surfers it helps to know whether a high tide has limited access by completely covering the beach or if a low tide presents a longer than usual walk to get to the water. In some embodiments the platforms systems methods and media compare a paddle point line for a particular section of the coastline to determine how much of the beach is exposed. In some embodiments the paddle point line is a line across a section of shore that represents the average distance from a baseline on shore of individual paddle points created by one or more rides from one or more surfers over a period of time. In some embodiments individual paddle points are a location in the surf zone and or swash zone where a surfer switches from walking to paddling out on their board. In some embodiments surfers will walk out into the surf and then start paddling when the water gets to about knee to waist deep in some embodiments this is the paddle point. In some embodiments the platforms systems methods and media record the paddle points of one or more rides from one or more surfers over a period of time and mathematically determine the average distance of through those points from a baseline on shore. In some embodiments the platforms systems methods and media determine the distance of this average line from a baseline to determine shore exposure. In some embodiments the baseline on shore is the boundary of the beach a berm crest a dune base or a particular structure such as a sea wall wave break or parking lot or a topographic mechanism such as a relief line or contour line of a specific altitude or a mathematically determined line or curve of any of the foregoing such as an average berm crest line average beach boundary line averaged altitude contour line. In some embodiments the shore exposure for multiple adjacent locations of the shore can be determined by determining the paddle point line for each section and then fitting a curve through a point in each line in each section. In some embodiments the fitted curve is the shore exposure contour line. In some embodiments the width of each shore section does not have to be equal or proportional to determine a shore exposure contour line across multiple sections of shore. In some embodiments the paddle point line for a single section or the shore exposure contour line across multiple sections is expressed by its location i.e. GPS position.

In some aspects described herein are platforms systems methods and media for determining predominant direction of wave breaks from multiple directly sampled randomly originated data points. In some embodiments the platforms systems methods and media count the number of times a motion sensor or GPS determines that a surfer goes left or right on a wave. In some embodiments a ride in either direction is counted for the cases when the surfer s direction is parallel to the face of the wave and the forward velocity heading towards shore is equal to the speed of the wave. In some embodiments rides that occur closer to the shore and have relatively straight trajectories are not counted as these are most likely beginners riding on the inside after the wave has broken. In some embodiments when a significant amount of directional rides occur in a specific location the number of rides in one or more directions are counted and the one or more directions are assigned a frequency x thus a break can be described as having waves that are 70 left 10 right with 20 closeouts straight .

In some aspects provided herein are platforms systems methods and media for determining a surfing wipeout using accelerometers and position sensors. In some embodiments the platforms systems methods and media use one or more curves from a multi axis accelerometer or gyroscope. In some embodiments data from an accelerometer and or a gyroscope is used to collect data that indicate a sudden spike in movement followed by a period of turbulent movement then followed by a period of more controlled movement. In some embodiments the spike indicates an initial crash and the turbulent movement is the board or individual tumbling in the surf. In some embodiments it is important to look for the pattern following a drop in and if present a ride.

In some aspects provided herein are platforms systems methods and media for determining a quantitative measurement of the energy contained in a breaking wave. In some embodiments of the platforms systems methods and media described herein use the accelerometer and or gyroscope data when the surfer or similar near shore water recreationist wipes out to determine the wave energy. In some embodiments a wipe out is determined when the accelerometer data registers a sudden magnitude increase in one or more axis and is followed by a relatively longer period of large amplitude noise in all axes as the surfer and board tumble through the surf. In some embodiments the pattern may or may not follow a ride as some surfers wipe out on the drop. In some embodiments a drop in is determined by downward motion and sometimes a corresponding negative acceleration. In some embodiments several data sets for a particular break within a specific time period are recorded and averaged to arrive at a characterizing index for the wave strength conditions at that break e.g. a crush factor . In some embodiments the area underneath an accelerometer curve and or a gyroscope curve is used to determine an energy magnitude. In some embodiments a relationship exists between the energy of the wave and Turbulent Kinetic Energy TKE .

In some aspects provided herein are platforms systems methods and media for determining shore current from multiple directly sampled randomly originating data points. In some embodiments while surfers are sitting in a line up waiting for a wave the platforms systems methods and media described herein measure drift that may be occurring via GPS accelerometer gyroscope and or compass. In some embodiments the component of the vector that is parallel to the shore is presented as the shore current. In some embodiments current is measured for a surfer sitting drifting while drifting paddling out and or drifting while paddling out.

In some aspects provided herein are platforms systems methods and media for determining shore current from multiple directly sampled randomly originating data points. In some embodiments while surfers are sitting in a line up waiting for a wave the platforms systems methods and media described herein measure drift that may be occurring via GPS accelerometer gyroscope and or compass. In some embodiments the component of the vector that is perpendicular to the shore is presented as the rip current. In some embodiments a rip current is detected and or monitored. In the case of a rip current drift vector is generally perpendicular to the beach. In some embodiments rip current drifts are correlated with other drift readings in the area to determine the width of the rip current.

In some aspects provided herein are platforms systems methods and media for determining the quality of surf conditions at a break by measuring activity tracker data and self assigned ability level from multiple participants. In some embodiments the quality of surf conditions is similar to assigning ski difficulty ratings to a surf site based on the data gathered about the site that day. In some embodiments a user creates a profile in an application and assigns him a skill level rating e.g. beginner novice skilled advanced pro . In some embodiments when data from an activity tracker is uploaded to a master database it is tagged with the skill level to qualify it. In some embodiments the platforms systems methods and media determine skill rating by examining ride data sets for multiple surfers in each category e.g. beginner novice skilled advanced pro . In some embodiments the length of one or more rides number of waves ridden in one session and the number of waves ridden compared to number of waves presented take rate are used. In some embodiments categories that have tight clustering of ride lengths a plurality of many rides of similar length and waves ridden and higher take rates compared to other categories are most likely doing so because the conditions are favorable so in some embodiments it is inferred the break is suitable for that group of riders. In some embodiments a rating to the break is assigned. In some embodiments categories that have a higher percentage of successfully rides and higher take rates compared to other categories are most likely doing so because the conditions are favorable for the category as such in some embodiments it is inferred that the break is suitable for that group of riders and is assigned a corresponding ranking.

In some aspects provided herein are platforms systems methods and media for determining wave height without the use of an altimeter. In some embodiments accelerometer data and or gyroscope data are used to determine a surfer is riding down the face of a wave. In some embodiments if no wipeout occurs an estimate of the wave face height is determined by using physics formulas to calculate free fall adjusted for resistance from the water and angle of descent. In some embodiments for a specific acceleration within a given period of time the distance traveled is estimated and used to calculate to the wave face height. In some cases travel down the wave manifests as a significant spike in the negative direction in at least one accelerometer or gyroscopic axis.

In some aspects provided herein are platforms systems methods and media to determine the wave quality or surfability or stoke factor of a particular wave break. In some embodiments in a given time period at a particular break the waves that pass under surfers while the surfers are sitting still waiting in the line up are measured. In some embodiments the number of waves ridden and the total number of waves those ridden those passed up are compared and the value is averaged across all surfers in a particular location. In some embodiments this value is the stoke factor. In some embodiments the stoke factor describes the percentage of waves that are worth riding independent of the height of the wave or skill level of the surfers. In some embodiments taken waves are calculated using accelerometer curves and position data to determine whether a surfer attempted and or completed a ride. In some embodiments taken waves include waves where a surfer makes an attempt but then misses backs out or falls out the wave or wipes out. In some embodiments the number of passed up waves are calculated using the number of vertical bobbing cycles that occur while a surfer is sitting still on their board waiting for a wave. In some embodiments it is possible that on some days surfers may just hang out in the lineup and talk instead of surfing which on such days it is assumed that even if the waves are rideable but surfers are willing to pass them up to talk then the wave quality is relatively not good which would be thusly reflected by a lower stoke factor.

In some aspects provided herein are platforms systems methods and media for ranking wave condition across multiple locations relative to the wave location s potential. In some embodiments the ranking is referred to as a real ranking. In some embodiments for a particular break the range of wave heights and other conditions such as wave quality over a period of time are recorded. In some embodiments a history of these conditions is recorded and used to determine a historical running average for each value. In some embodiments based on these conditions the current day s wave heights are compared and the break is rated based on this comparison. In some embodiments conditions comprise typical good better than normal worse than normal exceptionally good or exceptionally bad. In some embodiments a list of the breaks ranked according to these ratings is created. In some embodiments the list ranks breaks based on potential and not only by wave height. In some embodiments the ranking provides surfers with an easy way to qualitatively assess conditions at multiple surf locations at a glance and understand whether a break is having an exceptionally good day and should be visited. In some embodiments the real ranking can also be comprised of the quality rating for the break paired with the difficulty rating for that break to indicate for which skill level or type of surfing the rating best applies for example breaks that are good for beginner good for intermediate good for expert. 

In some aspects provided herein are platforms systems methods and media for providing a significance rating to qualify the integrity or reliability of crowd sourced data. In some embodiments the significance rating uses surf conditions. In some embodiments the significance rating uses any crowdsourced data set and or any data set. In some embodiments the statistically significant number of samples n that need to be obtained to reach a statistically significant confidence level for example greater than or equal to about 50 about 55 about 60 about 65 about 70 about 75 about 80 about 85 about 90 about 95 about 99 or equal to 100 is calculated and displayed as an indicator when presenting results analysis to show the viability of the data being presented. In some embodiments the indicator is a meter type or a single state status indicator with an optional numerical label. In some embodiments the rating provides users with a quick way to qualitatively decide whether data presented from a crowdsourced report is accurate. In some embodiments a report with a low significance rating data gathered from only a few people is less likely to be accurate and one with a high significance rating data gathered from a plurality of people is more likely to be representative of actual conditions.

In some aspects provided herein are platforms systems methods and media for visualizing ocean conditions in a time variable environment. In some embodiments conditions update continually as new data is received. In some embodiments a main graphical view presents a break and is updated as new data comes in at regular intervals from a cloud computation source. In some embodiments the main view graphically depicts the shoreline with waves breaking wave break direction and wave height. In some embodiments the main view also shows other crowdsourced information such as hazards or notable points of interest. In some embodiments points of interest comprise a dolphin sighting a shark sighing a hazard sighting and or an aggressive surfer. In some embodiments additional data can also be manually entered by other surfers or users either in the same application or via a separate application. In some embodiments tapping the display with a finger causes more detailed information to be displayed on the interface. In some embodiments wave shapes are used to display data such as break direction and or wave phase such as bumps rising breaking cresting and or white water. In some embodiments a straight line is used to indicate where rising wave swells were occurring. In some embodiments a user interacts with the display by tapping the interface to display the lineup positions and tracks of surfers providing data. In some embodiments a user interacts with the display using pinching and spreading to zoom in and out. In some embodiments a user is able to scroll and choose from a list of breaks. In some embodiments a user is able to choose a break by progressively zooming into a map. In some embodiments rotating the orientation of a mobile device while in the main view shows a secondary view that contains information comprising graphical information on wave timing. In some embodiments a user is able to swipe across the secondary view to display more detail comprising wave and set timing details. In some embodiments wave heights and distribution are graphically depicted the distribution calculated by collecting a plurality of wave height data and then summarizing for a particular time interval by height and frequency of occurrence for example if waves were 3 5 foot in the last hour 45 were 3 footers 35 were 4 footers and 25 were 5 footers. In some embodiments a user can interact with the screen to change the wave height increments in real time for example from greater than or equal to 1 foot to greater than or equal to 2 foot 2.5 foot 3 foot 3.5 foot 4 foot 4.5 foot 5 foot 5.5 foot 6 foot 6.5 foot 7 foot 7.5 foot 8 foot 8.5 foot 9 foot 9.5 foot 10 foot or greater or from less than or equal to 1 foot to less than or equal to 0.5 foot 1.0 foot 1.5 foot 2.0 foot 2.5 foot 3 foot 3.5 foot 4 foot 4.5 foot 5 foot 5.5 foot 6 foot 6.5 foot 7 foot 7.5 foot 8 foot 8.5 foot 9 foot 9.5 foot 10 foot or greater. In some embodiments when graphically depicting wave and set timing two wave sets are shown one representing the smallest set and the other representing the largest set. In some embodiments waves are displayed at varying heights. In some embodiments in order to crowdsource wave and set timing data the vertical bobbing of each surfer in the line up is tracked against their GPS position and clock time.

Unless otherwise defined all technical terms used herein have the same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which the invention belongs. As used in the specification and the appended claims the singular forms a an and the include plural references unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. Any reference to or herein is intended to encompass and or unless otherwise stated.

In certain aspects described herein are platforms systems methods and computer readable media to monitor a shore and near shore environment. In some embodiments the platforms systems methods and media comprise a plurality of sensors each sensor associated with a near shore water recreationist or near shore water recreationist equipment each sensor comprising a detector configured to collect environmental data pertaining to a shore and near shore environment and a communications element configured to transmit the environmental data collected by the detector.

In some embodiments the near shore water recreationist comprises a surfer a paddle boarder a body boarder a boogie boarder a kayaker a swimmer or a person in the water. In some embodiments the near shore water recreationist is a surfer. In some embodiments the sensor is worn by the near shore water recreationist the sensor worn on a wrist an armband a piece of clothing a wet suit a piece of footwear or a piece of swimwear. In some embodiments the sensor is operatively attached to the near shore water recreationist by a piece of clothing a piece of swimwear a string a cable and or a leash. In some embodiments the leash is operatively connected to a wrist an arm an ankle a leg a waist a torso and or a body of the near shore water recreationist. In some embodiments the near shore water recreationist equipment comprises a surfboard a kayak a paddle board a body board a raft an inner tube or a flotation device. In some embodiments the near shore water recreationist equipment is a surfboard. In some embodiments the sensor is operatively connected to the near shore water recreationist by a leash and the leash is operatively connected to the near shore water recreationist equipment. In some embodiments the near shore water recreationist equipment comprises a buoy an anchor and or a dock. In some embodiments the near shore water recreationist equipment comprises a boat a jet ski a waverunner a water sled a water ski. In some embodiments the near shore water recreationist equipment comprises a fishing lure a fishing line a fishing pole and or a piece of fishing equipment.

Referring to in some embodiments the near shore water recreationist or near shore water recreationist equipment is located in a shore or near shore environment. In some embodiments a shore area is present in the shore or near shore environment. In some embodiments a body of water is present in the shore or near shore environment. In some embodiments the body of water is an ocean. In some embodiments the near shore water recreationist or near shore water recreationist equipment is performing an activity in the body of water. In some embodiments the near shore water recreationist or near shore water recreationist equipment comprises a sensor and the sensor is configured to transmit data to the server the transmission in some embodiments going through a cellular tower or micro cellular tower . In some embodiments a mobile device comprises the sensor and or the detector. In some embodiments the device is configured to transmit data to the server the transmission in some embodiments going through a cellular tower . In some embodiments the device is configured to transmit data to the server the transmission in some embodiments going through a public wireless network a private wireless network a wired network or a satellite network . In some embodiments the device is a cellular phone table smart phone or a computer. In some embodiments the device is operatively attached to the near shore water recreationist and or the near shore water recreationist equipment. In some embodiments the near shore water recreationist equipment comprises a moored or untethered flotation platform such as a buoy . In some embodiments a sensor transfers environmental data to a cellular network tower . In some embodiments the sensor and or detector transfers environmental data to a mobile device and the device transfers data to a cellular network tower.

Referring to depicted is a non limiting example of the shore and near shore environment. In some embodiments the shore and near shore environment comprises a surf zone and a swash zone wherein the surf zone at least partially overlaps the near shore region and comprises one or more of bumps rising waves breaking waves and white water and wherein the swash zone comprises swash . In some embodiments swash is the area of the shore and near shore environment wherein surfers typically switch from walking to paddling on their surfboard. In some embodiments the shore and near shore environment depicted in represents the shore and near shore environment depicted in .

In certain aspects described herein are platforms systems methods and computer readable media to monitor a shore and near shore environment. In some embodiments the platforms systems methods and media comprise a plurality of sensors each sensor associated with a near shore water recreationist or near shore water recreationist equipment each sensor comprising a detector configured to collect environmental data pertaining to a shore and near shore environment and a communications element configured to transmit the environmental data collected by the detector a server comprising a server processor configured to provide a server application comprising a software module configured to receive the environmental data a software module configured to apply an algorithm to the environmental data to determine a shore and near shore environmental condition a software module configured to generate an environmental data report comprising the shore and near shore environmental condition and a software module configured to transmit the environmental data report and a device comprising a report processor configured to provide a report application comprising a software module configured to receive the environmental data report. In some embodiments the platforms systems methods and computer readable media comprise more than 1 more than 10 more than 100 more than 1000 more than 10 000 more than 100 000 or more than 1 000 000 sensors.

In some embodiments the detector comprises one or more of an accelerometer a gyroscope a compass a clock a GPS and an altimeter. In some embodiments the accelerometer is configured to measure proper acceleration of the detector. In some embodiments the accelerometer measures capacitance to detect acceleration. In some embodiments the accelerometer is a capacitance based accelerometer. In some embodiments the accelerometer utilizes the piezoelectric effect to detect acceleration. In some embodiments the accelerometer is piezoelectric based accelerometer. In some embodiments the accelerometer is configured to measure within a range of up to about 5 g. In some embodiments the accelerometer is configured to measure within a range of up to about 10 g. In some embodiments the accelerometer is configured to measure within a range of up to about 15 g. In some embodiments the accelerometer is configured to measure within a range of up to about 25 g. In some embodiments the accelerometer is configured to measure within a range of up to about 50 g. In some embodiments the accelerometer is configured to measure within a range of up to about 100 g. In some embodiments the accelerometer is configured to measure within a range of up to about 200 g. In some embodiments the gyroscope is configured to measure orientation of the detector. In some embodiments the gyroscope is a MEMS gyroscope. In some embodiments the compass is configured to measure the direction in which the detector is pointing. In some embodiments the compass is a digital compass. In some embodiments the altimeter is configured to measure the altitude of the detector. In some embodiments when the detector comprises an accelerometer a gyroscope a compass and an altimeter the platforms systems methods and media described herein are able to monitor a near shore water recreationist and or near shore water recreationist equipment speed change in speed 3 axis orientation change in 3 axis orientation direction with respect to true north change in direction with respect to true north altitude and change in altitude. In some embodiments the detector comprises a location element configured to determine the location of the sensor. In some embodiments the location element is a GPS device.

In some embodiments the detector comprises an element configured to determine a condition of the shore or near shore environment the condition comprising temperature pH salinity turbidity light or clarity. In some embodiments the detector is configured to monitor a temperature from about 30 F. to about 100 F. from about 30 F. to about 90 F. from about 30 F. to about 80 F. from about 30 F. to about 70 F. from about 30 F. to about 60 F. from about 40 F. to about 100 F. from about 50 F. to about 100 F. and or from about 60 F. to about 100 F. In some embodiments the detector is configured to measure temperature to an accuracy of about 0.1 F. about 0.5 F. about 1 F. about 2 F. or about 5 F. In some embodiments the detector is configured to measure pH to an accuracy of about 0.000001 pH unit about 0.00001 pH unit 0.0001 pH unit 0.001 pH unit 0.01 pH units 0.1 pH unit 1 pH unit 2 pH units 3 pH units and or about 5 pH units. In some embodiments the detector is configured to measure pH form about 0 pH units to about 14 pH units and or any range of pH units therein. In some embodiments the detector is configured to measure salinity to within a concentration of about 0.1 mM about 0.2 mM about 0.5 mM about 1 mM about 2 mM about 5 mM about 10 mM about 100 mM or about 1 M. In some embodiments turbidity is quantified as the cloudiness or haziness of the water. In some embodiments the light and or clarity is quantified as the amount of light that is measured by the detector.

In some embodiments the detector comprises an element configured to measure and monitor bio matter concentrations for example in ppm of the shore or near shore environment the bio matter comprising bacteria algae fungi or plankton. In some embodiments the bacteria comprise total coliforms fecal coliforms such as and halophilic bacteria cyanobacteria for example such as and ammonium oxidizing bacteria and nitrite oxidizing bacteria. In some embodiments the detector comprises an element to monitor archaea and or eukaryotes. In some embodiments the archaea comprise ammonium oxidizing archaea. In some embodiments the algae comprise brown algae phaeophyta green algae chlorophyta and or red algae rhodophyta . In some embodiments the plankton comprise phytoplankton zooplankton and or bacterioplankton. In some embodiments the detector can measure plankton ranging in size from about 0.2 m to about 20 cm from about 0.2 m to about 30 cm from about 0.2 m to about 50 cm from about 0.2 m to about 100 cm from about 0.5 m to about 20 cm from about 1 m to about 20 cm from about 2 m to about 20 cm from about 5 m to about 20 cm and or from about 10 m to about 20 cm. In some embodiments bio matter comprises algae that cause Harmful Algae Blooms HAB such as the algae that causes Red Tide or Microcystin produced by cyanobacterial blooms. In some embodiments the detector comprises an element to monitor pollution of the shore or near shore environment the pollution comprising hydrocarbons radiation or chemicals. In some embodiments the hydrocarbons comprise petroleum oil sewage and or runoff. In some embodiments the chemicals comprise petroleum oil sewage and or runoff.

In some embodiments the sensors are wearable. In some embodiments the sensors are worn by the near shore water recreationist the sensor worn on a wrist an armband a piece of clothing a wet suit a piece of footwear or a piece of swimwear. In some embodiments the sensor is operatively attached to the near shore water recreationist by a piece of clothing a piece of swimwear a string a cable and or a leash. In some embodiments the leash is operatively connected to a wrist an arm an ankle a leg a waist a torso and or a body of the near shore water recreationist. In some embodiments the near shore water recreationist equipment comprises a surfboard a kayak a paddle board a body board a raft an inner tube or a flotation device. In some embodiments the near shore water recreationist equipment is a surfboard. In some embodiments the sensor is operatively attached to or connected to the near shore water equipment and the equipment is operatively connected to the near shore water recreationist by a leash. In some embodiments the near shore water recreationist equipment comprises a buoy an anchor and or a dock. In some embodiments the near shore water recreationist equipment comprises a boat a jet ski a waverunner a water ski. In some embodiments the near shore water recreationist equipment comprises a fishing lure a fishing line a fishing pole and or a piece of fishing equipment. In some embodiments the sensors are water resistant. In some embodiments the sensors are contained in a water resistant housing water resistant chemical coating and or case. In some embodiments the sensors are contained in a water resistant housing water resistant chemical coating and or case and the housing coated sensor or case is operatively attached to the near shore water recreationist and or the near shore water recreationist equipment.

In some embodiments the communications element is configured to transmit the environmental data to the software module configured to receive the environmental data. In some embodiments the communications element is configured to transmit the environmental data to a computational device the computational device comprising a communications element configured to transmit the environmental data to the server software module configured to receive the environmental data. In some embodiments the computational device comprises a computer a cellular phone a smart phone a tablet a smart watch an activity tracker a personal activity tracker and or a surf watch. In some embodiments the computational device is the server. In some embodiments a personal activity tracking device is the same as an activity tracking device. In some embodiments a surf watch is an activity tracking device and or a personal activity tracking device. In some embodiments the computational device further comprises a processor configured to provide an application comprising a software module configured to apply an algorithm to the environmental data received from the sensor to clean the environmental data the cleaned environmental data transmitted to the server. In some embodiments the raw data is also transmitted to the server. In some embodiments the cleaning comprises removing erroneous data removing outlier data flagging erroneous data interpolating missing data and flagging outlier data. In some embodiments the environmental data is cleaned in order to configure the data such that the data is prepared for pre analytic analysis. In some embodiments the computational device further comprises a processor configured to provide an application comprising a software module configured to apply an algorithm to the cleaned environmental data to generate pre analytic data the pre analytic data transmitted to the server. In some embodiments the pre analytic data comprises events and conditions to which each sensor was subjected. In some embodiments the pre analytic data is generated by fitting the cleaned data to one or more pre defined mathematical functions. In some embodiments the pre defined function describes a wave height wave phase wave speed and direction a wave ride length breaking wave direction a wave kinetic energy a wave potential energy and or a wave break energy. In some embodiments at least a portion of the cleaned data is mathematically transformed prior to generating the pre analytic data mathematical transformations comprising a rotation a reflection a translation a scaling a shear interpolation a regression analysis a Fourier transformation and or laplacian transformation. In some embodiments at least a portion of the cleaned data is mathematically transformed to generate the pre analytic data mathematical transformations comprising a rotation a reflection a translation a scaling a shear interpolation a regression analysis a Fourier transformation and or laplacian transformation. In some embodiments the pre analytic data comprises user behavior comprising one or more of walking paddling paddling duration swimming floating dropping into a wave pulling out of a drop riding a wave ride duration wiping out or exiting a wave. In some embodiments the pre analytic data comprises near shore dynamics comprising one or more of shore exposure sea level rise wave position wave travel direction wave travel speed breaking wave direction wave and set timing wave kinetic energy wave potential energy wave break energy shore current speed shore current direction wave heights and wave phase. In some embodiments the pre analytic data comprises a water condition comprising one or more of temperature turbidity salinity and clarity. In some embodiments the pre analytic data comprises bio matter data comprising one or more of a plankton concentration a bacterium concentration a fungi concentration and or an algae concentration. In some embodiments the pre analytic data comprises pollution data comprising one or more of hydrocarbon concentration radiation and toxic chemical concentration. In some embodiments transmission of the environmental data and or the pre analytic data is through a wireless connection. In some embodiments the transmission of the environmental data and or the pre analytic data is through a wired connection. In some embodiments cleaning data comprises applying additional third party algorithms for example algorithms to fix known problems with GPS data. In some embodiments cleaning also includes a process of cross checking data between multiple platform users. In some embodiments unusual data can be eliminated or verified by cross checking the unusual data with another user s data in a similar location at a similar time. In some embodiments cross checked data is used as pre analytic data. In some embodiments cross checking data is performed externally from cleaning data.

In some embodiments a device comprises the sensor the device comprising a communications element configured to transmit the environmental data to the software module configured to receive the environmental data. In some embodiments the device comprises a cellular phone a smart phone a smart watch a computer a tablet computer a GPS watch a surf watch an activity tracking device and or a personal activity tracking device. In some embodiments a surf watch comprises a Rip Curl Search GPS surf watch. In some embodiments an activity tracking device comprises a Suunto Ambit Polar V800 GPS Triathlon Watch TomTom Multisport GPS Watch Garmin Forerunner Nike SportWatch GPS Xensr Move. In some embodiments an activity tracking device comprises a Fit Bit a Jawbone Up a Misfit Shine a Nike Fuelband a Samsung Gear Fit a Garmin Vivofit. In some embodiments an activity tracking device comprises a wearable mobile device such as a smartphone or smartwatch running an activity tracking app or software. In some embodiments a personal activity tracking device comprises a Suunto Ambit Xensr Move Garmin Forerunner a Fit Bit a Jawbone Up a Misfit Shine a Nike Fuelband a Samsung Gear Fit a Garmin Vivofit. In some embodiments a personal activity tracking device is the same as an activity tracking device. In some embodiments a surf watch is an activity tracking device and or a personal activity tracking device. In some embodiments the device further comprises a processor configured to provide an application comprising a software module configured to apply an algorithm to the environmental data received from the sensor to clean the environmental data the cleaned environmental data transmitted to the server. In some embodiments the raw data is also transmitted to the server. In some embodiments the cleaning comprises removing erroneous data removing outlier data flagging erroneous data interpolating missing data and flagging outlier data. In some embodiments the environmental data is cleaned in order to configure the data such that the data is prepared for pre analytic analysis. In some embodiments the device further comprises a processor configured to provide an application comprising a software module configured to apply an algorithm to the cleaned environmental data to generate pre analytic data the pre analytic data transmitted to the server. In some embodiments the pre analytic data comprises events and conditions to which each sensor was subjected. In some embodiments the pre analytic data is generated by fitting the cleaned data to one or more pre defined mathematical functions. In some embodiments the pre defined function describes a wave height wave phase breaking wave direction wave speed and direction a wave ride length a wave kinetic energy a wave potential energy and or a wave break energy. In some embodiments at least a portion of the cleaned data is mathematically transformed prior to generating the pre analytic data mathematical transformations comprising a rotation a reflection a translation a scaling a shear interpolation a regression a Fourier transformation and or laplacian transformation. In some embodiments at least a portion of the cleaned data is mathematically transformed to generate the pre analytic data mathematical transformations comprising a rotation a reflection a translation a scaling a shear a Fourier transformation and or laplacian transformation. In some embodiments the pre analytic data comprises user behavior comprising one or more of walking paddling paddling duration swimming floating dropping into a wave pulling out of a drop missing a drop riding a wave ride duration wiping out or exiting a wave. In some embodiments the pre analytic data comprises near shore dynamics comprising one or more of shore exposure sea level rise wave position wave travel direction wave travel speed wave and set timing wave kinetic energy wave potential energy wave break energy shore current speed and direction rip current speed and location wave heights and wave phase. In some embodiments the pre analytic data comprises a water condition comprising one or more of temperature turbidity salinity and clarity. In some embodiments the pre analytic data comprises bio matter data comprising one or more of a plankton concentration a bacterium concentration a fungi concentration and or an algae concentration. In some embodiments the pre analytic data comprises pollution data comprising one or more of hydrocarbon concentration radiation and toxic chemical concentration. In some embodiments transmission of the environmental data and or the pre analytic data is through a wireless connection. In some embodiments the transmission of the environmental data and or the pre analytic data is through a wired connection. In some embodiments cleaning data comprises applying additional third party algorithms for example algorithms to fix known problems with GPS data. In some embodiments cleaning also includes a process of cross checking data between multiple platform users. In some embodiments unusual data can be eliminated or verified by cross checking the unusual data with another user s data in a similar location at a similar time. In some embodiments cross checked data is used as pre analytic data. In some embodiments cross checking data is performed externally from cleaning the data. In some embodiments a first device comprising a sensor configured to collect shore and near shore environmental data is configured to communicate with a second device comprising a sensor configured to collect shore and near shore environmental. In some embodiments the first and second device communicate to cross check data which in some embodiments allows unusual data to be eliminated or verified. In some embodiments a plurality of devices each comprising a sensor configured to collect shore and near shore environmental data are configured to communicate with each other in order to cross check data which in some embodiments unusual data can be eliminated or verified. In some embodiments communication comprises transferring at least a portion of data and or analyzed data and or cleaned data.

In some embodiments a device comprises the sensor the device comprising a communication module to transmit the environmental data to a computational device the computational device comprising a communication module configured to transmit the environmental data to the software module configured to receive the environmental data. In some embodiments the device comprises a cellular phone a smart phone a smart watch a computer a tablet computer a surf watch an activity tracking device and or a personal activity tracking device. In some embodiments the computational device is the server. In some embodiments a surf watch comprises a Rip Curl surf watch. In some embodiments an activity tracking device comprises a Suunto Ambit Polar V800 GPS Triathlon Watch TomTom Multisport GPS Watch Garmin Forerunner Nike SportWatch GPS Xensr Move. In some embodiments an activity tracking device comprises a Fit Bit a Jawbone Up a Misfit Shine a Nike Fuelband a Samsung Gear Fit a Garmin Vivofit. In some embodiments a personal activity tracking device comprises a Xensr Move a Fit Bit a Jawbone Up a Misfit Shine a Nike Fuelband a Samsung Gear Fit a Garmin Vivofit. In some embodiments the computational device comprises a computer a cellular phone a smart phone a tablet a smart watch an activity tracker a personal activity tracker and or a surf watch. In some embodiments a personal activity tracking device is the same as an activity tracking device. In some embodiments a surf watch or a GPS watch is an activity tracking device and or a personal activity tracking device. In some embodiments the computational device further comprises a processor configured to provide an application comprising a software module configured to apply an algorithm to the environmental data received from the sensor to clean the environmental data the cleaned environmental data transmitted to the server. In some embodiments the raw data is also transmitted to the server. In some embodiments the cleaning comprises removing erroneous data removing outlier data flagging erroneous data interpolating missing data and flagging outlier data. In some embodiments the environmental data is cleaned in order to configure the data such that the data is prepared for pre analytic analysis. In some embodiments the computational device further comprises a processor configured to provide an application comprising a software module configured to apply an algorithm to the cleaned environmental data to generate pre analytic data the pre analytic data transmitted to the server. In some embodiments the pre analytic data comprises events and conditions to which each sensor was subjected. In some embodiments the pre analytic data is generated by fitting the cleaned data to one or more pre defined mathematical functions. In some embodiments the pre defined function describes a wave height wave phase wave speed and direction a wave ride length a wave kinetic energy a wave potential energy and or a wave break energy. In some embodiments at least a portion of the cleaned data is mathematically transformed prior to generating the pre analytic data mathematical transformations comprising a rotation a reflection a translation a scaling a shear interpolation a regression a Fourier transformation and or laplacian transformation. In some embodiments at least a portion of the cleaned data is mathematically transformed to generate the pre analytic data mathematical transformations comprising a rotation a reflection a translation a scaling a shear interpolation a regression a Fourier transformation and or laplacian transformation. In some embodiments the pre analytic data comprises user behavior comprising one or more of walking paddling paddling duration swimming floating floating duration dropping into a wave riding a wave ride duration wiping out or exiting a wave. In some embodiments the pre analytic data comprises near shore dynamics comprising one or more of shore exposure sea level rise wave position wave travel direction wave travel speed wave and set timing wave kinetic energy wave potential energy wave break energy shore current speed and direction rip current speed and location wave heights and wave phase. In some embodiments the pre analytic data comprises a water condition comprising one or more of temperature turbidity salinity and clarity. In some embodiments the pre analytic data comprises bio matter data comprising one or more of a plankton concentration a bacterium concentration a fungi concentration and or an algae concentration. In some embodiments the pre analytic data comprises pollution data comprising one or more of hydrocarbon concentration radiation and toxic chemical concentration. In some embodiments transmission of the environmental data and or the pre analytic data is through a wireless connection. In some embodiments the transmission of the environmental data and or the pre analytic data is through a wired connection. In some embodiments cleaning data comprises applying additional third party algorithms for example algorithms to fix known problems with GPS data. In some embodiments cleaning also includes a process of cross checking data between multiple platform users. In some embodiments unusual data can be eliminated or verified by cross checking the unusual data with another user s data in a similar location at a similar time. In some embodiments cross checked data is used as pre analytic data. In some embodiments cross checking data is performed externally from cleaning data.

Referring to in some embodiments of the platforms systems methods and media described herein a network provides communication between a plurality of sensors a server an external device and or third party data. In some embodiments the network comprises a cellular network a microcellular network a satellite network and or the internet. In some embodiments a near shore water recreationist or a piece near shore water recreationist equipment comprises an activity tracker comprising the sensor the activity tracker comprising an element to transmit environmental data pertaining to a shore and near shore environment to the server. In some embodiments a near shore water recreationist or a piece near shore water recreationist equipment comprises an activity tracker comprising the sensor transmits the environmental data pertaining to a shore and near shore environment to a computing device the computing device comprising an element to transmit environmental data pertaining to a shore and near shore environment to the server. In some embodiments a near shore water recreationist or a piece near shore water recreationist equipment comprises a mobile device for example a smart phone or a smart watch comprises an activity tracking application for example Strava Moves Endomondo Runtastic Argus Apple s Health App and Nike Running the mobile device comprising an element to transmit app data to the server. In some embodiments data from all near shore water recreationists all pieces near shore water recreationist equipment and or all third party contributing data from a third party database are transferred to the server through the network. In some embodiments the server comprises a software module configured to provide a graphical user interface and or an application programming interface. In some embodiments the server comprises an intake engine a data repository and storage an analytics engine and a reporting and services engine . In some embodiments a device comprising a mobile device for example a smart phone or a smart watch is configured to receive data from the server for example an environmental data report. In some embodiments a device comprising a computing device for example a personal computer a tablet and a laptop is configured to receive data from the server for example an environmental data report. In some embodiments a database is configured to receive data from the server for example an environmental data report. In some embodiments data is transmitted through a wireless connection. In some embodiments data is transmitted through a wired connection. In some embodiments the computing device is a cellular phone a smart phone a smart watch a tablet and or a laptop computer. In some embodiments a sensor is configured to transmit data to the server. In some embodiments a device comprises a sensor and the device is configured to transmit data to the server. In some embodiments a sensor is configured to transmit data to a computational device and the computational device is configured to transmit data to the server. In some embodiments the server is configured to transmit data and or the environmental data report to a device. In some embodiments data and or a report is transmitted using the internet. In some embodiments the server comprises a store an application programming interface and a data query language.

In some embodiments a plurality of sensors are associated with one or more near shore water recreationists or pieces of near shore water recreationist equipment. Referring to in some embodiments the platforms systems methods and media described herein are configured receive and analyze data spatially arranged in the shore and near shore environment for a given time or time interval. In some embodiments the shore and near shore environment comprise a first wave and a second wave . In some embodiments a plurality of sensors and or detectors are used to determine a plurality shore and near shore environmental conditions occurring in temporal relation to one another. As a non limiting example surfers and are paddling through the wave and data collected by the sensor and or detectors is configured to collect data that is used to determine the presence of white water. At the same time another surfer is surfing on the second wave and data collected by the sensor and or detectors based is configured to determine the direction of the break of the second wave relative to the white water and or the shore. Additionally at the same time another surfer is sitting outside the surf zone is drifting and the sensor and or detector is monitoring current data comprising current speed and direction. Also at the same time data collected by the sensor and or detectors of another surfer paddling outside the surf zone is used to determine wave bumps and their relative locations to the other waves and or the shore. Based on the data collected by the plurality of sensors and or detectors shore and near shore environmental data can be calculated and additional data can be interpolated . In some embodiments when interpolating data assumptions are made such as a width of a wave for a particular break and a phase of a wave for a particular break.

Referring to each depict a non limiting example of the platforms systems methods and computer readable media to monitor a shore and near shore environment in each non limiting example the environment is temporally monitored. Referring to in some embodiments a first near shore water recreationist for example a first surfer or first piece of near shore water recreationist equipment comprises a sensor that monitors the shore and near shore environment. In some embodiments at a first time the first surfer is surfing a wave in which the sensor records data comprising the position speed height and wave phase of the single wave. At the same time a second near shore water recreationist for example a second surfer or second piece of near shore water recreationist equipment comprises a sensor that monitors the shore and near shore environment the second surfer being in relative close spatial relation to the first surfer. While the first surfer is surfing the second surfer is paddling through multiple waves one of which is the wave that the wave that was surfed by the first surfer. The sensor of the second surfer records the phase height position and speed for each wave encountered. While paddling through the waves the second surfer swims under 405 the wave surfed by the first surfer thus not collecting data on this wave and creating a gap in the data. By combining the data from the first and second near shore water recreationist a data set describing each wave in a given period of time is generated.

Referring to in some embodiments the platforms systems methods and media described herein are configured to determine a shore exposure. In some embodiments one or more sensors and or detectors are associated with one or more near shore water recreationists and for example a surfer and or near shore water recreationist equipment for example a surfboard. In some embodiments individual paddle points and are a location in the surf zone and or the swash zone where a surfer switches from walking to paddling out on their board. In some embodiments a shore exposure is a line across a section of shore that represents the average paddle point distance from a baseline on shore created by one or more rides from one or more surfers over a period of time. In some embodiments the average paddle point distance for an individual surfer in a particular shore section is used to calculate the shore exposure for a particular shoreline section. In some embodiments the average paddle point for a plurality of surfers in a particular shore section is used to calculate the shore exposure for a particular shoreline section. Referring to in some embodiments the shore exposure for multiple adjacent locations of the shore can be determined by determining the paddle point line for each section and then fitting a curve through a point in each line in each section. In some embodiments the fitted curve is the shore exposure contour line. In some embodiments the width of each shore section does not have to be equal or proportional to determine a shore exposure contour line across multiple sections of shore. In some embodiments the paddle point line for a single section or the shore exposure contour line across multiple sections is expressed by its location i.e. GPS position.

Referring to in some embodiments the platforms systems methods and media described herein are configured to determine the wave break direction. In some embodiments a plurality of sensors are associated with one or more near shore water recreationists or pieces of near shore water recreationist equipment. In some embodiments a plurality of waves are monitored for example a first wave a second wave and a third wave . In some embodiments the directions of the break of each wave is determined relative to the direction a surfer or near shore recreationist travels while riding the wave . In some embodiments the wave break direction comprises straight in or closed out right or left .

Referring to in some embodiments the detector comprises one or more of an accelerometer and a gyroscope. In some embodiments the platforms methods systems and computer implemented media are configured to determine a surfing wipeout. In some embodiments the platforms systems methods and media use data from a multi axis accelerometer or gyroscope to monitor the near shore water recreationist or near shore water recreationist equipment acceleration and or orientation. In some embodiments a sudden spike in movement followed by a period of turbulent movement then followed by a period of more controlled movement is measured by an accelerometer and or a gyroscope. In some embodiments the spike indicates an initial crash and the turbulent movement indicates tumbling in the surf. In some embodiments after the turbulent movement the accelerometer curves will show a distinct shift in the opposite direction as the recreationist or equipment comes out of the turbulent water.

Referring to in some embodiments the platforms systems methods and media described herein comprise plurality of sensors configured to monitor the drift current speed and or the rip current speed of one or more near shore water recreationists or one or more pieces of near shore water recreationist equipment . In some embodiments the drift current speed is the speed of travel of a plurality of sensors and or detectors parallel to the shore baseline in a particular shoreline section. In some embodiments the rip current speed is the speed of travel of a plurality of sensors and or detectors perpendicular to the shore baseline in a particular shoreline section. In some embodiments drift comprises a shore current. In some embodiments the drift comprises a rip current.

Referring to in some embodiments the platforms systems methods and media are configured to determine a wave height. In some embodiments accelerometer data and gyroscope data are used to determine when a surfer is riding down the face of a wave. In some embodiments a large amplitude negative peak in one axis of the accelerometer data indicates dropping down the face of a wave. In some embodiments the accelerometer data contains a sinusoidal like pattern in one or more axes that indicate paddling . In some embodiments paddling occurs prior to dropping in and ceases during the drop in. Referring to in some embodiments the platforms systems methods and media use the method depicted to determine wave height. In some embodiments the method depicted in does not use data collected by an altimeter.

Referring to in some embodiments the platforms systems methods and media are configured to determine rip current boundaries for a particular section of the shoreline. In some embodiments the rip current boundary defines the boundary between water moving perpendicular to the shoreline and in opposite to the direction of wave travel with a significant difference in speed compared to normal current speed i.e. the rip current and normal moving water e.g. perpendicular to the shoreline and or moving at normal speeds .

In certain aspects described herein are platforms systems methods and computer readable media to monitor a shore and near shore environment. In some embodiments the platforms systems methods and media comprise a plurality of sensors each sensor associated with a near shore water recreationist or near shore water recreationist equipment each sensor comprising a detector configured to collect environmental data pertaining to a shore and near shore environment and a communications element configured to transmit the environmental data collected by the detector a server comprising a server processor configured to provide a server application comprising a software module configured to receive the environmental data a software module configured to apply an algorithm to the environmental data to determine a shore and near shore environmental condition a software module configured to generate an environmental data report comprising the shore and near shore environmental condition and a software module configured to transmit the environmental data report and a device comprising a report processor configured to provide a report application comprising a software module configured to receive the environmental data report.

In some embodiments the server application comprises a software module configured to parse and clean the environmental data received from each sensor the cleaning comprising removing erroneous data removing outlier data flagging erroneous data interpolating missing data and flagging outlier data. In some embodiments the server comprises an intake engine the intake engine comprising one or more applications configured to receive the environmental data and or parse and clean the environmental data received from each sensor the cleaning comprising removing erroneous data removing outlier data flagging erroneous data interpolating missing data and flagging outlier data. In some embodiments the environmental data is cleaned in order to configure the data such that the data is prepared for pre analytic analysis. In some embodiments the server further comprises a store configured to store the environmental data and or the cleaned environmental data. In some embodiments the store comprises a data repository. In some embodiments the server further comprises a database. In some embodiments the environmental data and or the cleaned environmental data is stored in the database. In some embodiments the store is connected to the server and or is remotely connected to the server. In some embodiments the store is connected to the server through a wired connection. In some embodiments the store is connected to the server through a wireless connection. In some embodiments cleaning data comprises applying additional third party algorithms for example algorithms to fix known problems with GPS data. In some embodiments cleaning also includes a process of cross checking data between multiple platform users. In some embodiments unusual data can be eliminated or verified by cross checking the unusual data with another user s data in a similar location at a similar time. In some embodiments cross checked data is used as pre analytic data. In some embodiments cross checking data is performed externally from cleaning data.

In some embodiments the server application further comprises a software module configured to apply an algorithm to the cleaned environmental data received from each sensor to generate pre analytic data the pre analytic data comprising events and conditions to which each sensor was subjected. In some embodiments the server comprises an analytics engine configured to provide a software module configured to apply an algorithm to the cleaned environmental data received from each sensor to generate pre analytic data the pre analytic data comprising events and conditions to which each sensor was subjected. In some embodiments the pre analytic data is generated by fitting the cleaned data to one or more pre defined mathematical functions. In some embodiments the pre defined function describes a wave height a wave ride length a wave kinetic energy a wave potential energy and or a wave break energy. In some embodiments at least a portion of the cleaned data is mathematically transformed prior to generating the pre analytic data the mathematical transformations comprising a rotation a reflection a translation a scaling a shear interpolation a regression a Fourier transformation and or laplacian transformation. In some embodiments at least a portion of the cleaned data is mathematically transformed to generate the pre analytic data mathematical transformations comprising a rotation a reflection a translation a scaling a shear interpolation a regression a Fourier transformation and or laplacian transformation. In some embodiments the pre analytic data comprises user behavior comprising one or more of walking paddling paddling duration swimming floating floating duration dropping into a wave riding a wave ride duration wiping out or exiting a wave. In some embodiments the pre analytic data comprises near shore dynamics comprising one or more of shore exposure sea level rise wave position wave travel direction wave travel speed wave and set timing wave kinetic energy wave potential energy wave break energy shore current speed shore current direction wave heights and wave phase. In some embodiments the pre analytic data comprises a water condition comprising one or more of temperature pH turbidity salinity and clarity. In some embodiments the pre analytic data comprises bio matter data comprising one or more of a plankton concentration a bacterium concentration a fungi concentration and or an algae concentration. In some embodiments the pre analytic data comprises pollution data comprising one or more of hydrocarbon concentration radiation and toxic chemical concentration. In some embodiments the server further comprises a database. In some embodiments the pre analytic data is stored in the database. In some embodiments cleaning data comprises applying additional third party algorithms for example algorithms to fix known problems with GPS data. In some embodiments cleaning also includes a process of cross checking data between multiple platform users. In some embodiments unusual data can be eliminated or verified by cross checking the unusual data with another user s data in a similar location at a similar time. In some embodiments cross checked data is used as pre analytic data. In some embodiments cross checking data is performed externally from cleaning data.

In some embodiments the server application further comprises a software module configured to apply an algorithm to a set of pre analytic data to generate analytic data the analytic data comprising trends of a plurality of events correlations of a plurality of events trends of a plurality of conditions correlations of a plurality of conditions trends of a plurality of events and conditions correlations of a plurality of events and conditions or historical trends of events and or conditions. In some embodiments the server comprises an analytics engine configured to provide a software module configured to apply an algorithm to a set of pre analytic data to generate analytic data the analytic data comprising trends of a plurality of events correlations of a plurality of events trends of a plurality of conditions correlations of a plurality of conditions trends of a plurality of events and conditions or correlations of a plurality of events and conditions. In some embodiments sets of pre analytic data are selected such that the correlation or lack of correlation will result in analytic data to be included in an environmental data report. In some embodiments the analytic data comprises wave patterns surf quality and or shore exposure. In some embodiments the analytic data comprises one or more of user behavior analyzed over time near shore dynamics analyzed over time water condition analyzed over time bio matter data analyzed over time and pollution data analyzed over time. In some embodiments the analytic data comprises one or more of user behavior analyzed in aggregate near shore dynamics analyzed in aggregate water condition analyzed in aggregate bio matter data analyzed in aggregate and pollution data analyzed in aggregate. In some embodiments the analytic data comprises surf report features comprising one or more of wave patterns wave heights surf condition surf condition difficulty level surf location quality surf location conditions compared to historic potential and surf location current ranking compared to other surf locations. In some embodiments the server further comprises a database. In some embodiments the analytic data is stored in the database.

In some embodiments the server application further comprises a software module configured to apply an algorithm to the environmental data to determine one or more of surf location difficulty level surf location wave quality and surf location current ranking as compared to other ranked surf locations. In some embodiments the server application further comprises a software module configured to apply an algorithm to the environmental data to determine one or more of surfer wipeouts surfer wave take rate and surfer travel direction in a wave.

In some embodiments the server is configured to provide a software module configured to generate an environmental data report. In some embodiments the server comprises a reporting engine configured to provide an application comprising a software module configured to generate an environmental data report. In some embodiments the server is configured to transmit to an external device one or more of the environmental data the cleaned environmental data the pre analytic data and or the analytic data the external device comprising a processor configured to provide an application comprising a software module configured to use one or more pieces of the transmitted data to generate an environmental data report. In some embodiments the environmental data report is a surf report comprising one or more of wave height wave frequency wave timing current surf conditions and surf location wave quality. In some embodiments the environmental data report is a meteorological report wherein the meteorological report comprises one or more of weather information tide information water condition wave height wave frequency and timing current surf conditions and surf location wave quality. In some embodiments the environmental data report is a geographical report the geographical report comprising one or more of coastline changes and shore and near shore topology. In some embodiments the environmental data report is an ecological and or environmental report the ecological report comprising one or more of sea level rise erosion bio matter data and water pH water salinity pollutant levels. In some embodiments the environmental data report is a municipal report the municipal report comprising information related to coastal tourism infrastructure development transportation development residential development public health and adaptation.

In some embodiments the server processor is configured to provide an application to receive environmental data from an external institution. In some embodiments the server processor is configured to provide an application to receive pre analytic data from an external institution. In some embodiments the server processor is configured to provide an application to receive analytic data from an external institution. In some embodiments the server processor is configured to convert shore and near shore data from an external institution into data to supplement pre analytic data analytic data and environmental reporting. In some embodiments the external institution comprises a government research facility a research institute a university a college a corporation a non government organization or a non profit entity.

In some embodiments an external device comprises the report processor. In some embodiments the report processor is further configured to provide an application comprising a software module configured to receive from the server one or more of the environmental data pre analytic data analytic data and or the environmental data report. In some embodiments the environmental data report is generated in real time or is generated according to a timed delay. In some embodiments the report processor is further configured to provide an application to provide an interface to display the environmental data report. In some embodiments the report processor is further configured to provide an application to provide an interface to allow a user to receive from the server one or more of the environmental data pre analytic data analytic data and or the environmental data report. In some embodiments the device is a cellular phone a smart phone a smart watch a tablet computer a laptop computer a personal computer an activity tracking device or a personal activity tracking device. In some embodiments the interface is displayed as a standalone application or as an included in an existing application. In some embodiments the interface is a web application. In some embodiments the interface is a pop up window and or an overlay. In some embodiments the interface is a website.

Referring to in some embodiments the platforms systems methods and media provide a significance rating for crowd sourced data. In some embodiments depicts an interface for displaying the significance rating on an external device. In some embodiments the significance rating uses surf conditions. In some embodiments the significance rating uses any crowdsourced data set and or any data set. In some embodiments the statistically significant number of samples that need to be obtained to reach statistically significant confidence level for example greater than or equal to about 50 about 55 about 60 about 65 about 70 about 75 about 80 about 85 about 90 about 95 about 99 or equal to 100 is calculated and displayed as an indicator when presenting information so as to depict the integrity of the displayed data. In some embodiments the indicator is several cartoon images of people in which the more people that are colored indicates a higher confidence level. In some embodiments the indicator is a meter type or a single state status indicator with an optional numerical label . In some embodiments the confidence rating provides users with a quick way to qualitatively decide whether data presented from a crowdsourced report is an accurate assessment. In some embodiments a report with a low significance rating data gathered from only a few people is less likely to be accurate and one with a high significance rating data gathered from a plurality of people is more likely to be representative of actual conditions.

Referring to and in some embodiments the platforms systems methods and provide an interface for visualizing ocean conditions in a time variable environment. In some embodiments conditions update continually as new data is received. In some embodiments a main graphical view presents a break and is updated as new data is received by the server. In some embodiments the break is animated. In some embodiments the waves displayed on the interface are animated. In some embodiments the main view graphically depicts the shoreline with waves breaking wave break direction wave direction distribution and wave height. In some embodiments the main view shows other crowdsourced information such as hazards or notable points of interest . In some embodiments points of interest comprise a dolphin sighting a shark sighing a hazard sighting and or an aggressive surfer. In some embodiments additional data including hazards and notable points of interest can also be manually entered by other surfers or the user either in the same app or via a separate app. In some embodiments additional data is entered by tapping an icon on the interface. In some embodiments a confidence level is displayed on the interface. In some embodiments tapping the display with a finger causes more detailed information to be displayed on the same screen the additional information comprising wave speed wave direction wave rideability information related to points of interest and or information related to hazards. In some embodiments wave shapes are used to display data about break direction for example a right break a left break or an a frame break . In some embodiments wave shapes are used to denote where white water is occurring. In some embodiments wave shapes are used to denote wave break close outs . In some embodiments wave shapes and or straight lines are used to denote bumps i.e. wave pulses .

Referring to in some embodiments of the platforms systems methods and media described herein a user interacts with the interface by tapping to display the lineup positions and tracks of surfers providing data . In some embodiments a user interacts with the display using pinching and spreading to zoom in and out . In some embodiments a user is able to scroll and choose from a list of breaks. In some embodiments wait zones and rides are depicted.

Referring to in some embodiments of the platforms systems methods and media described herein rotating the main view shows a secondary view that contains information comprising graphical information on wave timing.

Referring to in some embodiments of the platforms systems methods and media described herein a user is able to swipe across the secondary view to display more detail comprising wave timing details. In some embodiments wave heights are graphically depicted the wave heights calculated by collecting a plurality of wave height data and then summarizing for a particular time interval by height and frequency of occurrence for example 3 5 foot waves in the last hour 45 were 3 foot 35 were 4 foot 25 were 5 foot. In some embodiments when graphically depicting wave timing two sets of waves are shown one representing the set with the fewest waves in it and the other representing the set with the most waves in it . In some embodiments waves are displayed at varying sizes to indicate the heights. In some embodiments the time between wave sets is depicted. In some embodiments the time between waves is displayed . In some embodiments the wave break potential compared to the history of the break is displayed. In some embodiments the confidence level is depicted . In some embodiments in order to crowdsource data the bobbing of each surfer in the line up is tracked against their GPS position and clock time.

Referring to in some embodiments a user is able to choose a break from a zoomable map with monitored areas indicated by a graphical indicator . In some embodiments breaks are indicated by a graphic where the size of the graphic is proportional to the number of breaks in the area being indicated.

Referring to a 3D beach view with an overlay to depict wave heights and distances to waves is provided when a particular break is selected on the interface. In some embodiments the view depicted in can be selected or toggled from the main screen view. In some embodiments the view depicted in is animated.

In certain aspects described herein are platforms systems methods and computer readable media described herein monitor a shore and near shore environment. In some embodiments the platforms systems methods and media comprise a plurality of sensors each sensor associated with a near shore water recreationist or near shore water recreationist equipment each sensor comprising a detector configured to collect environmental data pertaining to a shore and near shore environment and a communications element configured to transmit the environmental data collected by the detector a server comprising a server processor configured to provide a server application comprising a software module configured to receive the environmental data a software module configured to apply an algorithm to the environmental data to determine a shore and near shore environmental condition a software module configured to generate an environmental data report comprising the shore and near shore environmental condition and a software module configured to transmit the environmental data report and a device comprising a report processor configured to provide a report application comprising a software module configured to receive the environmental data report.

In some embodiments the platforms systems methods and computer readable media monitor a shore and or near shore environment to extract ocean data. In some embodiments a method for monitoring shore and or near shore activity to extract ocean data is shown in a non limiting example in and the method comprising the following steps 

In some embodiments the platforms systems methods and computer readable media described herein comprise a plurality of sensors each sensor comprising a detector. In some embodiments the sensor is smart such that it gathers data from a shore and near shore environment and manipulates the data for example using the method described in and or . In some embodiments a device comprises a smart sensor the device capable of collecting additional shore and near shore environment data. In some embodiments a device comprising a smart sensor is a smart device. In some embodiments non limiting examples of a smart sensor and or a smart device are a surfing application on a smart phone a surfing watch for activity tracking a GPS watch an advanced sensor with a processor a cellular phone a smart phone and a smart watch. As a non limiting example referring to a device comprising a smart sensor functions according to the following steps 

In some embodiments the platforms systems methods and computer readable media described herein comprise a surf application. In some embodiments the application can be installed on a computing device comprising a computing processor such as a laptop or portable computer a smart phone a tablet a smart watch. In some embodiments the device comprises one or more of an accelerometer a location tracking element e.g. GPS a compass and an altimeter. In some embodiments the application will display surf conditions on the device. As a non limiting example referring to the application functions according to the following process 

In some embodiments the platforms systems methods and computer readable media monitor a shore and or near shore environment to extract coastal data. In some embodiments a method for monitoring shore and or near shore activity to extract coastal data is shown in a non limiting example in and the method comprising the following steps 

In some embodiments the platforms systems methods and computer readable media monitor a shore and or near shore environment to determine shore exposure. In some embodiments shore exposure describes the movement of the surf zone relative to the shore. In some embodiments shore exposure is described as the distance between the surf zone and inland boundary of the beach. The area within where waves generally wash on and off shore is described as the swash zone. In some embodiments the swash zone moves may or may not contain water as the waves wash on and off the shore. The point at which water is generally always present and does not fluctuate significantly is the border between the Swash Zone and the Surf Zone in some embodiments this point is the paddle point. In some embodiments the paddle point is inside the Surf Zone. In some embodiments the paddle point is the point at which surfers switch from walking in the water to paddling on their board. In some embodiments a method to determine shore exposure is shown in a non limiting example in .

In some embodiments by aggregating the paddle points for multiple adjacent coastal sections a curve can be fitted through the points. In some embodiments this line reflects the topography of the tidal floor and corresponding shoreline the accuracy of this line increases as the S decreases and the number of sections in an examined area increases.

In some embodiments the platforms systems methods and computer readable media monitor a shore and or near shore environment to determine a wave break direction. In some embodiments determining a wave break direction comprises data from a plurality of sensors. In some embodiments determining a wave break direction uses data from a plurality of pairs of left and right riders to compensate for population bias from an abundance of one type of rider or riders with a preference for a particular direction. In some embodiments when the data contains more data points from left or right riders the data is labeled as biased. In some embodiments a method to determine a wave break direction is shown in a non limiting example in and . In some embodiments data for paddle ins and or drop ins includes paddle ins and or drop ins that lead to successful rides as well as paddle ins and or drop ins that lead to a turn at the bottom of the wave but only lead to partial ride before wiping out and paddle ins and or drop ins that lead to a wipeout. In embodiments a left rider is a goofy footed rider or a rider that prefers turning left on a wave regardless of footing. In some embodiments a right rider is a regular footed rider or a rider that prefers turning right on a wave regardless of footing. In some embodiments left and right pairs left handed and right handed riders respectively who are of similar ability. In some embodiments rider details such as ability direction preference and footing are part of a user profile for example the user profile created according to the example shown in .

In some embodiments the platforms systems methods and computer readable media monitor a shore and or near shore environment to determine a wipeout. In some embodiments data from one or more sensors comprising an accelerometer and or a gyroscope are used to determine a wipeout. In some embodiments a method for determining a wipeout comprises interrogating environmental data pertaining to a shore and near shore environment to find a sudden change in speed and or sudden change in orientation and or sudden large acceleration caused by the user comprising the sensor falling in a wave and then interrogating the data to check whether a sustained period of large magnitude turbulent activity follows the sudden change in speed and or sudden change in orientation as the user tumbles in the surf. In some embodiments a method to determine a wipeout is shown in a non limiting example in the method comprising the steps 

In some embodiments the platforms systems methods and computer readable media monitor a shore and or near shore environment to quantitatively characterize breaking wave energy. In some embodiments the wave break energy is averaged across multiple riders riding a single wave. In some embodiments the wave break energy is calculated for a single rider riding multiple waves. In some embodiments the wave break energy is calculated for a single rider riding a single wave. In some embodiments the sensor is worn and or attached to the user. In some embodiments the sensor is attached to the user s surf board and or near water recreationist equipment. In some embodiments the sensor comprises an accelerometer and or a gyroscope. In some embodiments a method to calculate breaking wave energy is shown in a non limiting example in the method comprising the steps 

In some embodiments the platforms systems methods and computer readable media monitor a shore and or near shore environment to calculate coastal currents such as near shore currents or rip currents. In some embodiments multiple randomly located detectors are used to collect data from which current is calculated. In some embodiments one or more detectors are moving. In some embodiments the method monitors surfers paddling and or sitting in a line up. In some embodiments a surfer sitting in a line up generates drift data. In some embodiments a surfer in motion generates a set of data along a path. In some embodiments the data are vectors indicating a direction and speed of travel. In some embodiments a plurality of vectors are analyzed to calculate current. In some embodiments a method calculate current is shown in a non limiting example in the method comprising the steps 

In some embodiments the platforms systems methods and computer readable media monitor a shore and or near shore environment to determine a difficulty rating for a break. In some embodiments multiple randomly located detectors are used to collect data from which a difficulty rating is calculated. In some embodiments a difficulty rating for a break is determined by examining the skill level of the surfers in a break and their relative successes of surfing in the break. In some embodiments success is determine by monitoring a take rate for example the number of waves taken compared to the number of waves presented and the number of success surfing rides for example a ride that does end in a wipeout and or other accident. In some embodiments a method to determine a difficulty rating for a break is shown in a non limiting example in the method comprising the steps 

Referring to in some embodiments the platforms systems methods and computer readable media monitor a shore and or near shore environment to determine a wave ride quality also known as the stoke factor at particular surging location according to the depicted method. In the non limiting example method depicted in a quantitative index is used to describe the suitability of waves at a particular surf location. In some embodiments the method compares the number of waves passed up to the number of waves surfed to determine a mathematical score to express the quality of a surf location. In some embodiments the experience level of the surfer is accounted for when describing the surf quality.

Referring to in some embodiments the platforms systems methods and computer readable media monitor a shore and or near shore environment to rank and display surf locations for informed browsing according to the depicted method. In some embodiments surfers will desire a particular break condition that is not realized by only wave heights. In some embodiments breaks are given a potential score based on additional factors such as the rating of a wave for a particular surfing skill level.

In some embodiments the platforms systems methods and computer readable media comprise an application programming interface the application programming interface providing access to the environmental data. In some embodiments the application programming interface interacts with the server using data query language. In some embodiments the application programming interface comprises data query language. In some embodiments the application programming interface provides access to the raw sensor data or cleaned data. In some embodiments the application programming interface provides access to the pre analytic data. In some embodiments the application programming interface provides access to the analytic data. In some embodiments a device comprising a processor configured to provide an application comprising a software module configured to use the API provides access one or more of the environmental data the raw sensor data or cleaned data the pre analytic data the analytic data and or the environmental data report. In some embodiments the application comprises a web application software application and or mobile application or applet.

In some embodiments the platforms systems methods and computer readable media further comprises a graphical user interface the graphical user interface provides access to the environmental data. In some embodiments the application programming interface provides access to the raw sensor data or cleaned data. In some embodiments the graphical user interface providing access to the pre analytic data. In some embodiments the platform further comprises a graphical user interface the graphical user interface providing access to the analytic data. In some embodiments a device comprising a processor configured to provide an application comprising a software module configured to display a graphical user interface provides access to one or more of the environmental data the raw sensor data or the cleaned data the pre analytic data the analytic data and or the environmental data report. In some embodiments the graphical user interface is displayed as a standalone application or as an extension to an existing application. In some embodiments the graphical user interface is a web application. In some embodiments the graphical user interface is a pop up window and or an overlay. In some embodiments the graphical user interface is a website. In some embodiments the graphical user interface is a mobile application.

In some embodiments the platforms systems media and methods described herein include a digital processing device or use of the same. In further embodiments the digital processing device includes one or more hardware central processing units CPU that carry out the device s functions. In still further embodiments the digital processing device further comprises an operating system configured to perform executable instructions. In some embodiments the digital processing device is optionally connected a computer network. In further embodiments the digital processing device is optionally connected to the Internet such that it accesses the World Wide Web. In still further embodiments the digital processing device is optionally connected to a cloud computing infrastructure. In other embodiments the digital processing device is optionally connected to an intranet. In other embodiments the digital processing device is optionally connected to a data storage device.

In accordance with the description herein suitable digital processing devices include by way of non limiting examples server computers desktop computers laptop computers notebook computers sub notebook computers netbook computers netpad computers set top computers handheld computers Internet appliances mobile smartphones tablet computers personal digital assistants video game consoles and vehicles. Those of skill in the art will recognize that many smartphones are suitable for use in the system described herein. Those of skill in the art will also recognize that select televisions video players and digital music players with optional computer network connectivity are suitable for use in the system described herein. Suitable tablet computers include those with booklet slate and convertible configurations known to those of skill in the art. In some embodiments the digital processing devices is a computational device an external and or any other device described herein.

In some embodiments the digital processing device includes an operating system configured to perform executable instructions. The operating system is for example software including programs and data which manages the device s hardware and provides services for execution of applications. Those of skill in the art will recognize that suitable server operating systems include by way of non limiting examples FreeBSD OpenBSD NetBSD Linux Apple Mac OS X Server Oracle Solaris Windows Server and Novell NetWare . Those of skill in the art will recognize that suitable personal computer operating systems include by way of non limiting examples Microsoft Windows Apple Mac OS X UNIX and UNIX like operating systems such as GNU Linux . In some embodiments the operating system is provided by cloud computing. Those of skill in the art will also recognize that suitable mobile smart phone operating systems include by way of non limiting examples Nokia Symbian OS Apple iOS Research In Motion BlackBerry OS Google Android Microsoft Windows Phone OS Microsoft Windows Mobile OS Linux and Palm WebOS .

In some embodiments the device includes a storage and or memory device. The storage and or memory device is one or more physical apparatuses used to store data or programs on a temporary or permanent basis. In some embodiments the device is volatile memory and requires power to maintain stored information. In some embodiments the device is non volatile memory and retains stored information when the digital processing device is not powered. In further embodiments the non volatile memory comprises flash memory. In some embodiments the non volatile memory comprises dynamic random access memory DRAM . In some embodiments the non volatile memory comprises ferroelectric random access memory FRAM . In some embodiments the non volatile memory comprises phase change random access memory PRAM . In other embodiments the device is a storage device including by way of non limiting examples CD ROMs DVDs flash memory devices magnetic disk drives magnetic tapes drives optical disk drives and cloud computing based storage. In further embodiments the storage and or memory device is a combination of devices such as those disclosed herein.

In some embodiments the digital processing device includes a display to send visual information to a user. In some embodiments the display is a cathode ray tube CRT . In some embodiments the display is a liquid crystal display LCD . In further embodiments the display is a thin film transistor liquid crystal display TFT LCD . In some embodiments the display is an organic light emitting diode OLED display. In various further embodiments on OLED display is a passive matrix OLED PMOLED or active matrix OLED AMOLED display. In some embodiments the display is a plasma display. In other embodiments the display is a video projector. In still further embodiments the display is a combination of devices such as those disclosed herein.

In some embodiments the digital processing device includes an input device to receive information from a user. In some embodiments the input device is a keyboard. In some embodiments the input device is a pointing device including by way of non limiting examples a mouse trackball track pad joystick game controller or stylus. In some embodiments the input device is a touch screen or a multi touch screen. In other embodiments the input device is a microphone to capture voice or other sound input. In other embodiments the input device is a video camera or other sensor to capture motion or visual input. In further embodiments the input device is a Kinect Leap Motion or the like. In still further embodiments the input device is a combination of devices such as those disclosed herein.

In some embodiments a suitable server configuration includes 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100 200 500 1000 or more servers one or more server farms and cloud based server resource allocation systems. In some embodiments the servers are co located. In some embodiments the servers are located in different geographical locations. In some embodiments the servers are housed in the same rack. In some embodiments the servers are housed in multiple racks. In some embodiments the multiple racks are in the same geographic region. In some embodiments the racks are in different geographic regions. In some embodiments the server is or a plurality of servers employ a software framework such as Hadoop Google MapReduce HBase and or Hive for storage and large scale processing of data sets on clusters of hardware.

In some embodiments the platforms systems media and methods disclosed herein include one or more non transitory computer readable storage media encoded with a program including instructions executable by the operating system of an optionally networked digital processing device. In further embodiments a computer readable storage medium is a tangible component of a digital processing device. In still further embodiments a computer readable storage medium is optionally removable from a digital processing device. In some embodiments a computer readable storage medium includes by way of non limiting examples CD ROMs DVDs flash memory devices solid state memory magnetic disk drives magnetic tape drives optical disk drives cloud computing systems and services and the like. In some cases the program and instructions are permanently substantially permanently semi permanently or non transitorily encoded on the media.

In some embodiments the platforms systems media and methods disclosed herein include at least one computer program or use of the same. A computer program includes a sequence of instructions executable in the digital processing device s CPU written to perform a specified task. Computer readable instructions may be implemented as program modules such as functions objects Application Programming Interfaces APIs data structures and the like that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. In light of the disclosure provided herein those of skill in the art will recognize that a computer program may be written in various versions of various languages.

The functionality of the computer readable instructions may be combined or distributed as desired in various environments. In some embodiments a computer program comprises one sequence of instructions. In some embodiments a computer program comprises a plurality of sequences of instructions. In some embodiments a computer program is provided from one location. In other embodiments a computer program is provided from a plurality of locations. In various embodiments a computer program includes one or more software modules. In various embodiments a computer program includes in part or in whole one or more web applications one or more mobile applications one or more standalone applications one or more web browser plug ins extensions add ins or add ons or combinations thereof.

In some embodiments a computer program includes a web application. In light of the disclosure provided herein those of skill in the art will recognize that a web application in various embodiments utilizes one or more software frameworks and one or more database systems. In some embodiments a web application is created upon a software framework such as Microsoft .NET or Ruby on Rails RoR . In some embodiments a web application utilizes one or more database systems including by way of non limiting examples relational non relational object oriented associative and XML database systems. In further embodiments suitable relational database systems include by way of non limiting examples Microsoft SQL Server mySQL and Oracle . Those of skill in the art will also recognize that a web application in various embodiments is written in one or more versions of one or more languages. A web application may be written in one or more markup languages presentation definition languages client side scripting languages server side coding languages database query languages or combinations thereof. In some embodiments a web application is written to some extent in a markup language such as Hypertext Markup Language HTML Extensible Hypertext Markup Language XHTML or eXtensible Markup Language XML . In some embodiments a web application is written to some extent in a presentation definition language such as Cascading Style Sheets CSS . In some embodiments a web application is written to some extent in a client side scripting language such as Asynchronous Javascript and XML AJAX Flash Actionscript Javascript or Silverlight . In some embodiments a web application is written to some extent in a server side coding language such as Active Server Pages ASP ColdFusion Perl Java JavaServer Pages JSP Hypertext Preprocessor PHP Python Ruby Tcl Smalltalk WebDNA or Groovy. In some embodiments a web application is written to some extent in a database query language such as Structured Query Language SQL . In some embodiments a web application integrates enterprise server products such as IBM Lotus Domino . In some embodiments a web applications software framework such as Hadoop Google MapReduce HBase and or Hive for storage and or large scale processing of data sets on clusters of hardware is employed. In some embodiments a web application includes a media player element. In various further embodiments a media player element utilizes one or more of many suitable multimedia technologies including by way of non limiting examples Adobe Flash HTML 5 Apple QuickTime Microsoft Silverlight Java and Unity .

In some embodiments a computer program includes a mobile application provided to a mobile digital processing device. In some embodiments the mobile application is provided to a mobile digital processing device at the time it is manufactured. In other embodiments the mobile application is provided to a mobile digital processing device via the computer network described herein.

In view of the disclosure provided herein a mobile application is created by techniques known to those of skill in the art using hardware languages and development environments known to the art. Those of skill in the art will recognize that mobile applications are written in several languages. Suitable programming languages include by way of non limiting examples C C C Objective C Swift Java Javascript Pascal Object Pascal Python Ruby VB.NET WML and XHTML HTML with or without CSS or combinations thereof.

Suitable mobile application development environments are available from several sources. Commercially available development environments include by way of non limiting examples AirplaySDK alcheMo Appcelerator Celsius Bedrock Flash Lite .NET Compact Framework Rhomobile and WorkLight Mobile Platform. Other development environments are available without cost including by way of non limiting examples Lazarus MobiFlex MoSync and Phonegap. Also mobile device manufacturers distribute software developer kits including by way of non limiting examples iPhone and iPad iOS SDK Android SDK BlackBerry SDK BREW SDK Palm OS SDK Symbian SDK webOS SDK and Windows Mobile SDK.

Those of skill in the art will recognize that several commercial forums are available for distribution of mobile applications including by way of non limiting examples Apple App Store Android Market Google Play BlackBerry App World App Store for Palm devices App Catalog for webOS Windows Marketplace for Mobile Ovi Store for Nokia devices Samsung Apps and Nintendo DSi Shop.

In some embodiments a computer program includes a standalone application which is a program that is run as an independent computer process not an add on to an existing process e.g. not a plug in. Those of skill in the art will recognize that standalone applications are often compiled. A compiler is a computer program s that transforms source code written in a programming language into binary object code such as assembly language or machine code. Suitable compiled programming languages include by way of non limiting examples C C Objective C Swift COBOL Delphi Eiffel Java Lisp Python Visual Basic and VB .NET or combinations thereof. Compilation is often performed at least in part to create an executable program. In some embodiments a computer program includes one or more executable complied applications.

In some embodiments the platforms systems media and methods disclosed herein include software server and or database modules or use of the same. In view of the disclosure provided herein software modules are created by techniques known to those of skill in the art using machines software and languages known to the art. The software modules disclosed herein are implemented in a multitude of ways. In various embodiments a software module comprises a file a section of code a programming object a programming structure or combinations thereof. In further various embodiments a software module comprises a plurality of files a plurality of sections of code a plurality of programming objects a plurality of programming structures or combinations thereof. In various embodiments the one or more software modules comprise by way of non limiting examples a web application a mobile application and a standalone application. In some embodiments software modules are in one computer program or application. In other embodiments software modules are in more than one computer program or application. In some embodiments software modules are hosted on one machine. In other embodiments software modules are hosted on more than one machine. In further embodiments software modules are hosted on cloud computing platforms. In some embodiments software modules are hosted on one or more machines in one location. In other embodiments software modules are hosted on one or more machines in more than one location.

In some embodiments the platforms systems media and methods disclosed herein include one or more databases or use of the same. In view of the disclosure provided herein those of skill in the art will recognize that many databases are suitable for storage and retrieval of clinical trial profile and or molecular phenotype information. In various embodiments suitable databases include by way of non limiting examples relational databases non relational databases object oriented databases object databases entity relationship model databases associative databases and XML databases. In some embodiments a database is internet based. In further embodiments a database is web based. In still further embodiments a database is cloud computing based. In other embodiments a database is based on one or more local computer storage devices. Persons of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that the methods platforms systems and media described herein in some embodiments require big data storage and analysis platforms.

While embodiments of the present invention have been shown and described herein it will be obvious to those skilled in the art that such embodiments are provided by way of example only. Numerous variations changes and substitutions will now occur to those skilled in the art without departing from the invention. It should be understood that various alternatives to the embodiments of the invention described herein may be employed in practicing the invention.

