---

title: Function controlling method and electronic device supporting the same
abstract: An electronic device includes: a communication interface configured to support a communication function; and one or more processors configured to perform a temperature detection of the electronic device during the communication function execution, drive a timer warning a communication function termination if the detected temperature information satisfies a specified temperature condition, and output count information corresponding to the timer driving.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09591121&OS=09591121&RS=09591121
owner: Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.
number: 09591121
owner_city: Yeongtong-gu, Suwon-si, Gyeonggi-do
owner_country: KR
publication_date: 20150826
---
This application claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. 119 a of a Korean patent application filed on Aug. 28 2014 in the Korean Intellectual Property Office and assigned Serial number 10 2014 0113259 the entire disclosure of which is hereby incorporated by reference for all purposes.

An electronic device such as a smartphone may provide various user functions. Such an electronic device may provide a user function by using power such as a battery.

The above mentioned electronic device may cause heat generation due to the power use. The heat generation may be increased in relation to a function management of an electronic device. For example an electronic device using a communication function may cause heat generation more in comparison to an electronic device not using a communication function. Such heat generation may damage the hardware of an electronic device or affect a user.

Accordingly an aspect of the present disclosure is to provide a function controlling method for reducing hardware failure or user damage by limiting a function management and an electronic device for supporting the same.

In accordance with an aspect of the present disclosure an electronic device includes a communication interface configured to support a communication function and one or more processors configured to perform a temperature detection of the electronic device during a communication function execution drive a timer to warn of a communication function termination if a detected temperature satisfies a specified temperature condition and output count information corresponding to the timer driving.

In accordance with another aspect of the present disclosure provided is a function controlling method of an electronic device. The method includes performing a temperature detection of the electronic device corresponding to a communication function execution driving a timer to warn of a communication function termination if the detected temperature information satisfies a specified temperature condition and outputting count information corresponding to the timer driving.

In accordance with another aspect of the present disclosure an electronic device comprises a processor. The processor comprises a communication processor and an application processor. The communication processor is configured to detect a temperature and establish a phone call. The application processor is configured to perform one of cause the electronic device to enter a cool down mode or issue a warning message in response to at least one particular interrupt from the communication processor. The communication processor sends the at least one particular interrupt to the application processor responsive to detecting the temperature exceeds one or more thresholds.

Hereinafter various embodiments of the present disclosure are disclosed with reference to the accompanying drawings. However this does not limit various embodiments of the present disclosure to a specific embodiment and it should be understood that the present disclosure covers all the modifications equivalents and or alternatives of this disclosure provided they come within the scope of the appended claims and their equivalents. With respect to the descriptions of the drawings like reference numerals refer to like elements.

The term include comprise and have or may include or may comprise and may have used herein indicates disclosed functions operations or existence of elements but does not exclude other functions operations or elements.

For instance the expression A or B or at least one of A or and B may indicate include A B or both A and B. For instance the expression A or B or at least one of A or and B may indicate 1 at least one A 2 at least one B or 3 both at least one A and at least one B.

The terms such as 1st 2nd first second and the like used herein may refer to modifying various different elements of various embodiments of the present disclosure but do not limit the elements. The expressions may be used to distinguish one element from another element. For instance a first user device and a second user device may indicate different users regardless of the order or the importance. For example a first component may be referred to as a second component and vice versa without departing from the scope of the present disclosure.

In various embodiments of the present disclosure it will be understood that when a component for example a first component is referred to as being operatively or communicatively coupled with to or connected to another component for example a second component the component can be directly connected to the other component or connected through another component for example a third component . In various embodiments of the present disclosure it will be understood that when a component for example a first component is referred to as being directly connected to or directly access another component for example a second component another component for example a third component does not exist between the component for example the first component and the other component for example the second component .

The expression configured to used in various embodiments of the present disclosure may be interchangeably used with suitable for having the capacity to designed to adapted to made to or capable of according to a situation for example. The term configured to may not necessarily mean specifically designed to in terms of hardware. Instead the expression a device configured to in some situations may mean that the device and another device or part are capable of . For example a processor configured to perform A B and C in a phrase may mean a dedicated processor for example an embedded processor for performing a corresponding operation or a generic purpose processor for example a CPU or application processor for performing corresponding operations by executing at least one software program stored in a memory device.

Terms used in various embodiments of the present disclosure are used to describe specific embodiments of the present disclosure and are not intended to limit the scope of other embodiments. The terms of a singular form may include plural forms unless they have a clearly different meaning in the context. Otherwise indicated herein all the terms used herein which include technical or scientific terms may have the same meaning that is generally understood by a person skilled in the art. In general the terms defined in the dictionary should be considered to have the same meaning as the contextual meaning of the related art and unless clearly defined herein should not be understood abnormally or as having an excessively formal meaning. In any cases even the terms defined in this specification cannot be interpreted as excluding embodiments of the present disclosure.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure electronic devices may include at least one of smartphones tablet personal computers PCs mobile phones video phones electronic book e book readers desktop personal computers PCs laptop personal computers PCs netbook computers workstation server personal digital assistants PDAs portable multimedia player PMPs MP3 players mobile medical devices cameras and wearable devices for example smart glasses head mounted devices HMDs electronic apparel electronic bracelets electronic necklaces electronic accessories electronic tattoos smart mirrors and smart watches .

According to some embodiments of the present disclosure an electronic device may be smart home appliances. The smart home appliances may include at least one of for example televisions digital video disk DVD players audios refrigerators air conditioners cleaners ovens microwave ovens washing machines air cleaners set top boxes home automation control panels security control panels TV boxes e.g. Samsung HomeSync Apple TV or Google TV game consoles for example Xbox and PlayStation electronic dictionaries electronic keys camcorders and electronic picture frames.

According to some embodiments of the present disclosure an electronic device may include at least one of various medical devices supporting call forwarding service for example various portable measurement devices for example glucometers heart rate meters blood pressure meters temperature meters etc. magnetic resonance angiography MRA devices magnetic resonance imaging MRI devices computed tomography CT devices medical imaging devices ultrasonic devices etc. navigation devices global positioning system GPS receivers event data recorders EDRs flight data recorders FDRs vehicle infotainment devices marine electronic equipment for example marine navigation systems gyro compasses etc. avionics security equipment vehicle head units industrial or household robots financial institutions automatic teller s machines ATMs or stores point of sales POS or internet of things for example bulbs various sensors electric or gas meters sprinkler systems fire alarms thermostats street lights toasters exercise equipment hot water tanks heaters boilers etc. .

In various embodiments of the present disclosure an electronic device may include at least one of part of furniture or buildings structures supporting call forwarding service electronic boards electronic signature receiving devices projectors and various measuring instruments for example water electricity gas or radio signal measuring instruments . An electronic device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure may be one of the above mentioned various devices or a combination thereof. Additionally an electronic device according to an embodiment of the present disclosure may be a flexible electronic device. Additionally an electronic device according to an embodiment of the present disclosure is not limited to the above mentioned devices and may include a new kind of an electronic device according to the technology development.

Hereinafter an electronic device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure will be described in more detail with reference to the accompanying drawings. The term user in this disclosure may refer to a person using an electronic device or a device using an electronic device for example an artificial intelligent electronic device . is a view illustrating an electronic device management environment according to various embodiments of the present disclosure. The electronic device management environment may include an electronic device a network another electronic device and a server device .

In the electronic device management environment the electronic device may establish a communication channel with the other electronic device through the network . Alternatively the electronic device may establish a communication channel with the server device . During this operation the electronic device may operate a communication channel operation related processor for example at least one of an application processor and a communication processor . A processor may generate a specific heat while receiving and managing a power necessary for a communication channel management. According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the electronic device may perform a temperature detection relating to a management of a processor and may limit a function executed by a processor when the detected temperature information satisfies a specified temperature condition. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure when the detected temperature information satisfies a specified condition the electronic device for example may provide a function termination schedule time of a corresponding function. A user may check which time point a function that the user uses currently is terminated through a function termination schedule time check and may perform processing for example a manipulation for a function control of an electronic device according thereto.

The network may include telecommunications network for example at least one of computer network for example LAN or WAN internet and telephone network. The network may support a communication channel establishment relating to communication service management of the electronic device . The electronic device may establish a voice call channel or a video call channel with the other electronic device through the network . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the electronic device may establish a data communication channel with the server device through the network . The electronic device may limit at least one function in execution in correspondence to detected temperature information during a communication function management.

The other electronic device may be the same or different type of the electronic device . The other electronic device may transmit a call for example a voice call or a video call connection request message to the electronic device via the network or may establish a communication channel to request message transmission. According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the other electronic device may receive information from the electronic device at a function termination schedule time. The other electronic device may output a function termination schedule time in a guide sound format or as text or image information. When a function termination schedule time elapses the other electronic device may receive communication function termination related information for example a communication channel release request from the electronic device and may release a communication channel.

The server device may include a group of one or more servers. According to various embodiments of the present disclosure all or part of operations executed on the electronic device may be executed on another one or more electronic devices for example the electronic device or the server device . The server device may establish a communication channel with the electronic device or the other electronic device in relation to communication service support. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the server device may receive information on a function termination schedule time from the electronic device . Alternatively the server device may receive a communication channel release request in correspondence to a function termination schedule time arrival. When a function termination schedule time arrives from the electronic device the server device may process a communication channel release at a corresponding time. Alternatively when receiving a communication channel release request the server device may process a communication channel release.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure when the electronic device performs a certain function or service automatically or by a request it may request at least part of a function relating thereto from another device for example the other electronic device or the server device instead of or in addition to executing the function or service by itself. The other electronic devices for example the other electronic device or the server device may execute the requested function or an additional function and may deliver an execution result to the electronic device . The electronic device may provide the requested function or service by processing the received result as it is or additionally. For this for example cloud computing distributed computing or client server computing technology may be used. The electronic device may include a bus a processor a memory an input output interface a display a communication interface a temperature sensor for example a thermistor and a heart rate monitor HRM sensor . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the electronic device may omit at least one of the components or may additionally include a different component. Additionally alternately although it is shown that the temperature sensor is connected to the processor through the bus according to various embodiments of the present disclosure the temperature sensor may be directly connected to the processor . Alternatively each temperature sensor may be directly connected to the application processor or the communication processor .

The bus of the electronic device for example may include a circuit for connecting the above mentioned components to to each other and delivering a communication for example a control message and or data between the components. For example the bus may deliver a user function execution related input event to the processor . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the bus may deliver information received from the communication interface to the processor and may deliver it to the input output interface or the display in correspondence to a control of the processor . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the bus may deliver audio data or display data for example including at least one of text and image corresponding to a function termination schedule time to the input output interface or the display .

The processor may include at least one of a communication processor CP a central processing unit CPU and an application processor AP . The processor for example may execute calculation or data processing for control and or communication of at least one another component of the electronic device . According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the processor may perform data processing or control signal processing relating to at least one application execution. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the processor may perform calculation processing relating to the management of a program module loaded into the memory . For example the processor may support a virtual content playback related calculation processing relating to a communication event reception during virtual content playback call connection processing corresponding to a call connection request and so on.

The application processor may perform hardware control and software control relating to a user function management of the electronic device . For example the application processor may receive temperature information from the communication processor . The application processor may control a function termination schedule by checking the received temperature information and a specified temperature condition. Alternatively the application processor may control a function termination schedule on the basis of a comparison of temperature information received from the temperature sensor and a specified temperature condition. In relation to the function termination schedule when a specified first temperature condition for example when a constrained temperature is more than 38 C. 100.4 F. or 40 C. 104 F. is satisfied the application processor may perform a control to output a function termination schedule time for example a time for warning or announcing or noticing the termination of at least one function during execution after a specific time elapses . For example the application processor may output audio data corresponding to a function termination schedule time through the input output interface . Alternatively the application processor may perform a control to output display data corresponding to a function termination schedule time through the display . When a function termination schedule time arrives after the function termination schedule time output the application processor may terminate a corresponding function.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the application processor may re perform a temperature detection after the function termination schedule time. When temperature information of a re performance time point satisfies a specified first temperature condition the application processor may perform a function termination. When the temperature information of the re performance time point satisfies a second temperature condition for example a situation of more than a limited temperature for example 42 C. 107.6 F. the application processor may perform the processing of cool down for example a setting for limiting the usage of specified functions . According to various embodiments of the present disclosure when temperature information detected after a function termination schedule time elapses satisfies a third temperature condition for example a situation of more than a restricted temperature for example 46 C. 114.8 F. the application processor may control power off of the electronic device .

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the application processor may guarantee a specified basic communication performance time in consideration of the efficiency of a given specific function for example a communication function. For example when a communication function is executed the application processor may provide a basic communication performance time such as several minutes or several seconds and may perform a temperature detection after the basic communication performance time elapses. The application processor may process at least one of the above mentioned function termination schedule time output function termination cool down and power off in correspondence to temperature information detected after the basic communication performance time elapses.

The communication processor may collect temperature information from the temperature sensor and may deliver the collected temperature information to the application processor in a specific period or in correspondence to a request of the application processor . When a function termination instruction is received from the application processor the communication processor may perform a control to terminate a communication function in execution. For example the communication processor may receive a communication function termination instruction from the application processor at an elapse time point of a function termination schedule time. The communication processor may terminate a communication function in execution and release a communication channel.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the communication processor may detect a temperature through the temperature sensor in a specific period or a specific period. When the detected temperature information satisfies a specified temperature condition the communication processor may control an output of a function termination schedule time. The communication processor may terminate a communication function after a function termination schedule time elapses. According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the communication processor may process a communication function limitation corresponding to the detected temperature information without waking up the application processor in a sleep state.

The memory may include volatile and or nonvolatile memory. The memory for example may store instructions or data relating to at least one another component of the electronic device . The memory may store software and or programs. The programs may include a kernel a middleware an application programming interface API and or an application program or an application . At least part of the kernel the middleware or the API may be called an operating system OS .

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the memory may include temperature setting information. The temperature setting information may include information such as a first temperature condition a second temperature condition and a third temperature condition and information defining function processing of the processor in a corresponding temperature condition. The temperature setting information may be provided to a corresponding processor when the application processor or the communication processor is activated.

The kernel for example may control or manage system resources for example the bus the processor the memory and so on used for performing operations or functions implemented in other programs for example the middleware the API or the application program . Additionally the kernel may provide an interface for controlling or managing system resources by accessing an individual component of the electronic device from the middleware the API or the application program . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the kernel may provide an interface relating to a control of resources which are necessary for at least one of a temperature information collection through a control the temperature sensor a temperature information and temperature condition comparison an output of a function termination schedule time corresponding to a comparison result a function termination corresponding to the arrival of a function termination schedule time cool down corresponding to the detected temperature information and power off processing and a hardware or software management.

The middleware for example may serve as an intermediary role for exchanging data as the API or the application program communicates with the kernel . Additionally in relation to job requests received from the application program the middleware for example may perform a control for example scheduling or load balancing for the job requests by using a method of assigning a priority for using a system resource for example the bus the processor the memory and so on of the electronic device to at least one application program among the application programs . For example the middleware may support a job assignment and assigned job processing relating to a temperature detection control of the temperature sensor during a communication function execution a comparison control of temperature information an output of a function termination schedule time corresponding to whether a temperature condition is satisfied a function termination cool down and power off.

The API as an interface for allowing the application to control a function provided from the kernel or the middleware may include at least one interface or function for example an instruction for file control window control image processing or character control. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the API may include an API relating to a temperature detection of the temperature sensor during communication function management an API relating to a comparison of detected temperature information and a temperature condition and an API relating to processing corresponding to a comparison result.

The application may include various applications supported by the electronic device . For example the application may include a data communication related web surfing function application a call function application a content streaming application and a voice search function application. According to the execution of the application the electronic device may support a user function. Accordingly at least one function provided by the application may be limited in correspondence to a control of the application processor or the communication processor . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure a communication function provided by a communication function application may maintain an execution state or may be terminated after a function termination schedule time elapses corresponding to a comparison of detected temperature information and a specified temperature condition.

The input output interface for example may serve as an interface for delivering instructions or data inputted from a user or another external device to another component s of the electronic device . Additionally the input output interface may output instructions or data received from another component s of the electronic device to a user or another external device.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the input output interface may include an audio processing module having a speaker and a mike. The audio processing module may collect a call sound or output a received call sound corresponding to a call function performance. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the input output interface may output audio data corresponding to a function termination schedule time through the speaker in correspondence to a control of the processor . For example the input output interface may output audio data for counting a specific time. According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the input output interface may output a specified alarm message corresponding to a comparison of detected temperature information and specified temperature condition. According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the input output interface may output guide information on a cool down state. For example when an input event relating to the execution of a specified function for example a communication function occurs in a state that a specified temperature condition is satisfied a situation of more than a specified restricted temperature the input output interface may output audio data for guiding a cool down state in which a corresponding function execution is impossible. According to various embodiments of the present disclosure when it is more than a specified temperature condition for example more than a restricted temperature in correspondence to a change of detected temperature information the input output interface may perform a guide sound output for a cool down state.

The display for example may include a liquid crystal display LCD a light emitting diode LED display an organic light emitting diode OLED display a microelectromechanical systems MEMS display or an electronic paper display. The display may display various content for example text image video icon symbol and so on to a user. The display may include a touch screen and for example may receive a touch gesture proximity or hovering input by using an electronic pen or a user s body part.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the display may output a communication function related user interface. When the detected temperature information satisfies a specified temperature condition the display may output display data for a function termination schedule time. For example the display may display information for counting a specific time. The display may output display data for guiding a function termination in correspondence to a function termination schedule time arrival. The display may output display data corresponding to a cool down entry state in correspondence to a specified temperature condition satisfaction. According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the display may output a specified alarm message in relation to the satisfaction of various specified temperature conditions.

The communication interface for example may set a communication between the electronic device and an external device for example the other electronic device or the server device . For example the communication interface may communicate with an external device for example the other electronic device or the server device in connection to the network through wireless communication or short range wireless communication or wired communication. The wireless communication may use LTE LTE A CDMA WCDMA UMTS WiBro or GSM as a cellular communication protocol for example. The wired communication for example may include at least one of universal serial bus USB high definition multimedia interface HDMI recommended standard 232 RS 232 and plain old telephone service POTS . The short range wireless communication may include a communication method based on a Bluetooth communication module a WiFi direct communication module and so on.

The communication interface may receive a call connection request from the other electronic device . The communication interface may transmit a call connection acceptance to the other electronic device in correspondence to a user control. The communication interface may establish a voice call channel or a video call channel with the other electronic device .

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure in correspondence to a control of at least one of the application processor and the communication processor the communication interface may transmit a function termination schedule time related message to the other electronic device or the server device . Additionally when a communication function is forcibly terminated in correspondence to a function termination schedule time arrival the communication interface may transmit a specified forced termination guide message for example a message for guiding a forced function termination corresponding to temperature condition satisfaction to the other electronic device or the server device in correspondence to a control of the processor . Alternatively the communication interface may transmit to the other electronic device or the server device a call connection available guide message for example information on a call connection available time set experimentally or statistically after forced termination or information for notifying a state that a call connection becomes available corresponding to a temperature condition change after forced termination .

The temperature sensor for example a thermistor may be disposed adjacent to a position for measuring substantially a temperature of a processor or a corresponding component at least one for example a power control module the application processor the communication processor a battery and so on of hardware of the electronic device . The temperature sensor may provide collected temperature information to the processor corresponding to a specific period or a request of a control processor for example the communication processor or the application processor . According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the temperature sensor is activated and collects temperature information when a specific application is executed. Alternatively the temperature sensor may collect temperature information while the electronic device is activated. The temperature sensor may be deactivated when a specific application execution is terminated.

The HRM sensor may collect information on whether a user wears the electronic device or user s heart rate information. The HRM sensor for example may be activated in synchronization with the activation of the temperature sensor . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the HRM sensor may be activated in correspondence to a communication function activation. The processor may check whether a user wears the electronic device on the basis of information provided from the HRM sensor .

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the processor may differently output an alarm message to be outputted corresponding to whether a user wears the electronic device . For example when the electronic device satisfies a specified temperature condition for example more than or equal to 38 C. corresponding to a communication function performance in an unworn state the processor may perform a message output for inducing the temperature drop of the electronic device for example wearing the electronic device in order to maintain a communication function.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the processor may differently change a specified temperature condition corresponding to an unworn state of the electronic device . For example the processor may set a first temperature range for example 40 C. 104 F. 42 C. 107.6 F. or 46 C. 114.8 F. specified in relation to the function termination schedule time cool down entry or power off of the electronic device in a worn state and a second temperature range for example 40 C. 104 F. 42 C. 107.6 F. or 46 C. 114.8 F. specified in relation to the function termination schedule time cool down entry or power off of the electronic device in an unworn state. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the processor may set a threshold value for function termination release or cool down release in an unworn state differently from a worn state for example more than a worn state . According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the HRM sensor may be omitted from a configuration of the electronic device .

The battery temperature sensor may detect a battery temperature and may deliver the detected temperature information to the SIOP module . The battery temperature sensor may detect a battery temperature and may deliver the detected temperature information to a Samsung intelligent overheating protecting SIOP module . The temperature sensor for communication module may perform a temperature detection corresponding to a control of the communication processor or in a specific period and may deliver the detected temperature information to the communication processor . The communication processor may deliver the detected temperature information to the SIOP .

The processor may include an application processor and a communication processor . The application processor may include temperature setting information a SIOP module a user interface UI control module a communication service support module and a timer . The communication service support module can include among other things a telephony service support module.

The temperature setting information may include function control information corresponding to temperature information of the electronic device . For example the temperature setting information may include constrained temperature condition information restricted temperature condition information and limited temperature condition information.

When information on a first temperature range for example 38 C. to 42 C. 107.6 F. and detected temperature information are within the first temperature range the constrained temperature condition information may include a driving setting of the timer and information output setting corresponding to the driving of the timer . Additionally the constrained temperature condition information may include a setting for the termination of at least one function among functions in execution when the timer expires. For example the constrained temperature condition information may include at least one of a setting for terminating a function relating to hardware having the highest current consumption a setting for terminating a function corresponding to a priority specified for each function a setting for terminating the oldest function among functions in execution and a setting for terminating the recently executed function when the timer expires. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure when the constrained temperature condition is satisfied during a management process of the recently executed function for example a communication function the constrained temperature condition information may include a setting for terminating the recently executed function when the timer expires.

The restricted temperature condition information may include information on a second temperature range for example 42 C. 107.6 F. to 46 C. 114.8 F. and a setting for performing cool down processing when the detected temperature information is within the second temperature range. The restricted temperature condition information may include a setting for cool down release after cool down processing. A setting for cool down release may include information on a function for example a data communication function or a voice communication function restricted by cool down and an unrestricted function for example an emergency call function .

The limited temperature condition information may include information on a third temperature range for example more than 46 C. 114.8 F. and a setting for performing power off processing when the detected temperature information is within the third temperature range.

The above temperature setting information may be adjusted by a user setting. In relation to this the application processor may provide a screen interface relating to the adjustment of the temperature setting information . A user may adjust the first temperature range to the third temperature range on the basis of the temperature setting information adjustment screen. The electronic device may allow the first temperature range to third temperature range adjustment within an experimental or statistical range in which hardware damage does not occur. For example in correspondence to whether the electronic device is allowed a user may adjust the first temperature range to a range of less than 38 C. the second temperature range to a range of 38 C. to 42 C. 107.6 F. and the third temperature range to a range of more than 46 C. 114.8 F. Alternatively in correspondence to whether the electronic device is allowed a user may adjust the first temperature range to 40 C. 104 F. the second temperature range to 42 C. 107.6 F. and the third temperature range to 46 C. 114.8 F. The above temperature range adjustment is just one example and may vary depending on temperature resistance characteristics of the electronic device and a user s setting change.

The SIOP module may perform a temperature detection in correspondence to a specific period or an event occurrence for example a communication function execution and may restrict at least one function in execution on the basis of the detected temperature information. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the SIOP module may restrict a communication function on the basis of at least one of temperature information provided from the battery temperature sensor the temperature sensor for application processor and the communication processor . For example the SIOP module may restrict a communication function on the basis of an average temperature value the maximum temperature value or the minimum temperature value of battery temperature information temperature information for an application processor and temperature information for a power control module. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure after assigning a weight to battery temperature information temperature information for an application processor and temperature information for a power control module the SIOP module may restrict a communication function on the basis of temperature information calculation corresponding to a weight. For example the SIOP module may assign a relatively high weight to temperature information for application processor during a process for performing a data communication function in comparison to another temperature information. The SIOP module may assign a relatively high weight to temperature information for power control module during a process for performing a call function in comparison to another temperature information.

The SIOP module may control the driving of the timer in relation to communication function restriction. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the SIOP module may compare temperature information that the temperature sensor for communication module delivers to the communication processor with the temperature setting information . The SIOP module may drive the timer in which detected temperature information satisfies a constrained temperature condition. Additionally the SIOP module may output notification information relating to the timer to the UI control module . When the driving of the timer is terminated the SIOP module may request a communication function termination from the communication processor .

The SIOP module may control cool down for example app termination or power off corresponding to the detected temperature information. For example the SIOP module may control cool down processing when detected temperature information satisfies a restricted temperature condition. In relation to the cool down processing the SIOP module may request related function processing from the UI control module . Additionally the SIOP module may process power off when detected temperature information satisfies a limited temperature condition. In relation to the power off the SIOP module may request a guide information output from the UI control module .

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the SIOP module may terminate a call function within a specified first temperature range for example a specified temperature range for function termination . After the call function termination the SIOP module may perform a call function corresponding to a re call attempt and perform temperature detection. When detected temperature information approaches a specified second temperature range for example a specified temperature range for cool down execution for example when a specified temperature is 42 C. 107.6 F. a notification message for notifying cool down execution or communication function restriction may be outputted. A notification message for example may be outputted as a specified beep sound vibration text or image. The above mentioned function may be applied to the first temperature range. For example in a case that the first temperature range is specified to 40 C. 104 F. if temperature information corresponding to 38 C. or 39 C. is detected the SIOP module may output a notification message notifying that a communication function is able to be restricted.

The UI control module may output display data in correspondence to a request from the SIOP module . For example the UI control module may output audio data corresponding to a timer count through the input output interface or may output display data corresponding to a timer count to the display in relation to the driving of the timer . The UI control module may process at least one alarm message output corresponding to a temperature condition at least one of a state that the constrained temperature condition is satisfied a state that the restricted temperature condition is satisfied and a state that the limited temperature condition is satisfied corresponding to the detected temperature information through at least one of the input output interface and the display .

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the UI control module may output a communication function control related virtual button to a screen where display data corresponding to a timer count is outputted. The UI control module may output a function termination screen in correspondence to the completion of the timer . After the function termination the UI control module may output a communication function usage related virtual button.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the UI control module may process input restriction according to a cool down state. For example the UI control module may perform a touch function related hardware control for example touch panel deactivation and touch activation during emergency call execution . The UI control module may deactivate a communication function execution related physical key button or virtual button.

The communication service support module may communicate with the communication processor in relation to a communication function support of the electronic device . For example the communication service support module may request a communication channel establishment with the other electronic device or the server device from the communication processor in relation to a communication function execution request. The communication service support module may receive a call sound or data that the communication processor receives and may provide this to a related application for example a communication function application .

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the communication service support module may receive temperature information for a power control module from the communication processor corresponding to a request of the SIOP module or a specific period and may deliver the temperature information to the SIOP module . The communication service support module may deliver a communication function termination request to the communication processor corresponding to a request of the SIOP module .

The timer may be driven corresponding to a control of the SIOP module . A driving time of the timer may be adjusted. According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the timer may support various schedule time settings. For example the timer may support a count corresponding to a function termination schedule time for example a time taken for terminating a communication function depending on the constrained temperature condition satisfaction. Additionally the timer may support a count corresponding to a basic communication performance time set to maintain a communication function during a specific time while a communication function is executed.

The communication processor may support a communication function corresponding to a control of the application processor . For example when receiving a request for communication channel establishment from the communication service support module the communication processor may control the communication interface to establish a communication channel with the other electronic device or the server device . The communication processor may deliver communication data received through the communication interface to the communication service support module of the application processor .

The communication processor may process a communication channel release in correspondence to a communication function termination request of the SIOP module . In relation to this the communication processor may transmit a function termination schedule time to the other electronic device or the server device . The communication processor may transmit a function termination schedule time arrival or a function termination corresponding to cool down or power off to the other electronic device or the server device .

The communication processor may include the SIOP module a UI control module and a timer . In this case the communication processor may perform a function restriction corresponding to the temperature condition satisfaction separately from the application processor . Alternatively the communication processor may process a function restriction corresponding to the temperature condition satisfaction when the application processor is in a sleep state. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the communication processor compares temperature information for a power control module and the temperature setting information and may drive the timer corresponding to a comparison result. Similarly to the timer the timer may be used for counting a function termination schedule time or a basic communication performance time. When the communication processor includes the timer the timer of the application processor may be omitted.

An electronic device may include a communication interface for supporting a communication function and a process for driving a timer for warning of a communication function termination when detected temperature information satisfies a specified temperature condition according to the communication function execution.

The processor may be set to maintain the communication function execution during a basic communication performance time specified before an operation for performing the temperature detection.

The processor may be set to maintain the communication function execution during a specified basic communication performance time when the obtained temperature information satisfies a specified temperature condition after the temperature detection performance.

The processor may be set to perform a temperature detection again after the basic communication performance time elapses drives the timer when the obtained temperature information satisfies a specified temperature condition and output count information corresponding to the timer driving.

The process may be set to output at least one of display data and audio data corresponding to the count information.

The processor may be set to output at least one of a virtual key button set to maintain a communication function during the timer driving time a virtual key button set to terminate the communication function and a virtual key button for delaying a communication function termination corresponding to the timer driving for a specific time.

When the timer driving expires the processor may be set not to reuse the communication function for a specific time.

When the specific time elapses the processor may be set to output information relating to the communication function reuse availability.

The processor may be set to power off by cutting power supply when the timer driving expires or power off by cutting power supply when a re performed temperature detection result satisfies a specified limited temperature condition after the timer driving expires.

The processor may be set to transmit to the other electronic device at least one of a communication function termination schedule time or the communication function termination corresponding to the timer driving.

When temperature information detected during the timer driving satisfies a specified limited temperature condition the processor may be set to power off by cutting power supply.

An electronic device may include a memory for storing at least one instruction and at least one processor for executing the instruction in connection to the memory. The instruction executed by the at least one processor may be set to detect temperature information of the electronic device during the communication function execution drive a timer for warning a communication function termination if the detected temperature information satisfies a specified temperature condition and output count information corresponding to the timer driving. Alternatively an electronic device may include a memory for storing at least one instruction and at least one processor for executing the instruction in connection to the memory. The electronic device may be set to check whether temperature information of the electronic device satisfies a specified temperature condition when a communication function is executed and maintain a communication function execution during a basic communication performance time when the temperature information satisfies the specified temperature condition.

The instruction may be set to detect temperature information of the electronic device again after the basic communication performance time elapses drive a timer for warning a communication function termination when the redetected temperature information satisfies a specified temperature condition and output count information corresponding to the timer driving.

Alternatively an electronic device may include a memory for storing at least one instruction and at least one processor for executing the instruction in connection to the memory and may be set to maintain a communication function execution during a basic communication performance time of an automatically specific size when a communication function is executed detect temperature information of the electronic device after the basic communication performance time elapses drive a timer for warning a communication function termination if the detected temperature information satisfies a specified temperature condition and output count information corresponding to the timer driving.

When an input event relating to a specific application execution the electronic device may support an application execution corresponding to an input event type. For example the electronic device may provide a voice call function an image call function a data communication function a content streaming reception and output function a broadcast reception function and a voice search function corresponding to an input event type. When a specific application is executed the electronic device may perform a temperature detection in operation . For example when a communication related application is executed the electronic device may collect temperature information from the temperature sensor for communication module. The electronic device may compare the detected temperature information and the temperature setting information .

In operation the electronic device may check whether it is a constrained temperature condition. For example the electronic device may check whether the detected temperature information is within a specified first temperature range. When the detected temperature information is more than a constrained temperature the electronic device may perform a timer driving and a function termination guide in operation . A timer may count a specific time. The electronic device may output information counted corresponding to a timer driving to at least one of the input output interface and the display . When the timer driving expires the electronic device may output a function termination guide for example at least one of audio data and display data for warning that a function in execution is to be terminated.

In operation the electronic device may check whether a timer expires. Before a timer expires the electronic device may branch into operation and perform subsequent operations again. According to various embodiments of the present disclosure before a timer expires the electronic device may branch into operation and perform subsequent operations again. For example the electronic device may support a communication function in execution.

When a timer expires the electronic device may process a function termination in operation . For example the electronic device may process a communication channel release in relation to a communication function termination. Additionally the electronic device may terminate an application executed in relation to a communication function.

When the detected temperature information does not satisfy a constrained temperature condition the electronic device may support a specific application execution in operation . For example when the detected temperature information is within a first temperature range the electronic device may perform processing to maintain a specific application execution.

In operation the electronic device may check whether there is an event occurrence relating to a function termination. When a function termination related event occurs the electronic device may perform function termination processing in operation . If there is no function termination related event the electronic device may branch into operation and perform subsequent operations again.

When an event occurs the electronic device may check whether a communication function related event occurs in operation . If no communication function related event occurs the electronic device may process a function performance corresponding to the occurred event in operation . For example the electronic device may process the playback of stored music content or support a watch function corresponding to an event type. Alternatively the electronic device may support a message check function.

If a communication function related event occurs the electronic device may process a communication function performance. For example the electronic device may execute a communication function related application and may establish a voice call channel or a video call channel with the other electronic device . During this operation the electronic device may count a specified basic communication performance time. The electronic device may output information counted in relation to the basic communication performance time.

In operation the electronic device may check whether the specific basic communication performance time elapses. If a communication function termination related event occurs within the basic communication performance time the electronic device may process a communication function termination. If the basic communication performance time does not elapse the electronic device may support a communication function performance in operation .

If the basic communication performance time elapses the electronic device may perform a temperature detection in operation . The electronic device may compare the detected temperature information and the temperature setting information . In operation the electronic device may process a notification information output corresponding to temperature information. For example when the detected temperature information is within a first temperature range the electronic device may warn a function termination schedule time corresponding to the satisfaction of a constrained temperature condition. When a corresponding time elapses for example when the function termination schedule time elapses the electronic device may output notification information for guiding that a function is to be terminated. Alternatively when the detected temperature information is within a second temperature range and thus satisfies a specified restricted temperature condition the electronic device may warn the execution of a cool down function for example a function for processing a specified function not to be used during a specific time and may output notification information for guiding that a function usage according thereto is unavailable. Alternatively when the detected temperature information is within a third temperature range and thus satisfies a limited temperature condition the electronic device may warn power off. During this operation the electronic device may perform a control to output count information of a specific timer. For example the electronic device may output specific timer count information for a warning time point at which a cool down function is to be executed. Alternatively the electronic device may output specific timer count information for a warning time point at which power off is executed. According to various embodiments of the present disclosure a notification information output corresponding to temperature information in operation may be omitted.

In operation the electronic device may check whether the detected temperature information satisfies a restricted temperature condition corresponding to a specified second temperature range. For example the electronic device may check whether the detected temperature information is more than 42 C. 107.6 F. When the restricted temperature condition is satisfied for example the detected temperature information is more than 42 C. 107.6 F. the electronic device may perform cool down processing in operation . In relation to the cool down processing the electronic device may terminate a communication function in execution and may perform processing not to reuse the communication function for a specific time. According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the electronic device may perform cool down processing at the restricted temperature condition satisfaction time point or may drive a timer to perform cool down processing after a timer driving completion.

When the temperature information does not satisfy the restricted temperature condition for example in the case of a second temperature range the electronic device may check whether the constrained temperature condition is satisfied in operation . When the detected temperature information does not satisfy the constrained temperature condition for example the detected temperature information is within a specified first temperature range the electronic device may branch into operation and perform subsequent operations. When the detected temperature information is more than the first temperature range the electronic device may branch into operation described with reference to and process subsequent processes.

In operation the electronic device may check whether the detected temperature information satisfies a constrained temperature condition for example it is within a first temperature range . When the constrained temperature condition is not satisfied for example the detected temperature information is less than 40 C. 104 F. the electronic device may check whether a function termination related event occurs in operation . If there is no function termination related event the electronic device may branch into operation and perform subsequent operations again while supporting a communication function. When a function termination related event occurs the electronic device may perform function termination processing in operation .

When the detected temperature information satisfies the constrained temperature condition for example more than 40 C. 104 F. the electronic device may provide a specific basic communication performance time in operation . The basic communication performance time for example may be set by several sec to several min and may be adjusted corresponding to a user setting.

In operation the electronic device may check whether the specific basic communication performance time elapses. If the basic communication performance time does not elapse the electronic device may branch into operation and support a communication function during the basic communication performance time. If a function termination related event occurs during the basic communication performance time the electronic device may process a communication function termination.

If the basic communication performance time elapses the electronic device may perform a temperature detection again in operation . In operation the electronic device may check whether the detected temperature information satisfies a limited temperature condition. The limited temperature condition for example may be a case that the detected temperature information is within a third temperature range for example more than 46 C. 114.8 F. . If it is the limited temperature condition the electronic device may process power off corresponding to the limited temperature condition in operation . If the limited temperature condition is satisfied during this operation the electronic device may process power off. Alternatively if the limited temperature condition is satisfied the electronic device may drive a timer and process power off when the timer expires.

When the limited temperature condition is not satisfied for example the detected temperature information is less than 46 C. 114.8 F. the electronic device may check whether the restricted temperature condition is satisfied in operation . When the detected temperature information satisfies the restricted temperature condition for example less than 46 C. 114.8 F. and more than 42 C. 107.6 F. the electronic device may perform cool down processing in operation . During this operation while detecting a temperature change the electronic device may process cool down at the time point that the restricted temperature condition is satisfied. Alternatively if the restricted temperature condition is satisfied the electronic device may drive a timer and process cool down when the timer expires. After the cool down processing the electronic device may maintain a cool down state for a specific time. When a cool down maintenance time expires the electronic device may return to a state before communication function execution.

When the restricted temperature condition is not satisfied for example the detected temperature information is less than 42 C. 107.6 F. the electronic device may check whether the constrained temperature condition is satisfied in operation . When the detected temperature information satisfies a constrained temperature condition the electronic device may process function termination in operation . During this operation the electronic device may process function termination at the time point that the constrained temperature condition is satisfied. Alternatively if the constrained temperature condition is satisfied the electronic device may drive a timer and process function termination when the timer expires. After the function termination processing the electronic device may return to a specified state. For example the electronic device may return to a state before communication function execution.

When the constrained temperature condition is not satisfied for example the detected temperature information is less than 40 C. 104 F. the electronic device may return to a communication function support state. For example the electronic device may branch into operation or branch into operation .

A driving time of a timer driven corresponding to a limited temperature condition a driving time of a timer driven corresponding to a restricted temperature condition and a driving time of a timer driven corresponding to a constrained temperature condition may be different from each other. For example a limited temperature condition timer driving time may be set relatively shorter than another driving time. Alternatively a restricted temperature condition timer driving time may be set shorter than a constrained temperature condition timer driving time.

A function controlling method may include performing a temperature detection corresponding to a communication function execution driving a timer for warning of communication function termination when temperature information detected corresponding to the temperature detection satisfies a specified temperature condition and outputting count information corresponding to the timer driving.

The method may further include maintaining the communication function execution during a basic communication performance time specified before the performing of the temperature detection.

The method may further include maintain communication function execution during a specified basic communication performance time when the obtained temperature information satisfies a specified temperature condition after the performing of the temperature detection.

The driving of the timer may include performing a temperature detection again after the basic communication performance time elapses and driving the timer when the obtained temperature information satisfies a specified temperature condition.

The outputting of the count information may include at least one of display data corresponding to the count information and outputting audio data corresponding to the count information.

The outputting of the count information may further include outputting at least one of a virtual key button set to maintain a communication function during the timer driving time a virtual key button set to terminate the communication function and a virtual key button for delaying a communication function termination corresponding to the timer driving for a specific time.

The method may further include when the timer driving expires processing not to reuse the communication function for a specific time.

The method may further include when the specific time elapses outputting information relating to the communication function reuse availability.

The method may further include performing power off by cutting power supply when the timer driving expires.

The method may further include transmitting at least one of a communication function termination schedule screen and a communication function termination corresponding to the timer driving.

As shown in a state the electronic device may output a screen corresponding to a call function execution. For example when accepting a call connection request from the other electronic device the electronic device may output a screen corresponding to a call function execution. Alternatively the electronic device may transmit a call connection request to the other electronic device in correspondence to a phone number input or an input event for selecting connection information of the other electronic device included in a phonebook. The electronic device may output a screen corresponding to a call function execution in correspondence to the acceptance of the other electronic device for a call connection request.

The electronic device may perform a temperature detection such as operation during a call function execution. Alternatively after a call function execution as a basic call performance time for example several min such as completion of the elapsed time during operation the electronic device may perform temperature detection such as operation . When the detected temperature information satisfies a constrained temperature condition such as the condition of operation as shown in a state a screen relating to a function termination schedule time may be outputted to the display . For example a function termination schedule time may output guide information for example a guide for device temperature rise corresponding to the satisfaction of a constrained temperature condition. Additionally the function termination schedule screen may include timer information a call end button and a call hold button . The timer information may be information counted corresponding to timer driving. The call end button may be a virtual button set to terminate a call function in execution. The call hold button may be a virtual button set to continue a call during a time counted by a timer such as operation .

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure as shown in a state the electronic device may output information corresponding to a timer elapse such as operation . A screen corresponding to a timer elapse for example may include timer information and guide information for guiding a function to be executed corresponding to timer expiration. The timer information may be changed corresponding to a timer count. For example when the counter of the timer information indicates in a state the timer information may indicate that the counter is terminated in a state . An output of information corresponding to a timer elapse may be outputted. Alternatively an information output corresponding to a timer elapse may be outputted intermittently for example a several sec unit . Additionally alternatively the electronic device may replace information corresponding to a timer elapse with audio data processing.

When a timer expires such as the condition of operation the electronic device may perform function termination processing such as operation as shown in a state . The function termination screen for example may include information for guiding call function termination and a re call button . The re call button may be a virtual button set to automatically perform a call connection with the other electronic device that is connected right before. The re call button may be activated or deactivated in correspondence to the detected temperature information. According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the electronic device performs a temperature detection after the timer driving is completed and may finally determine a function termination corresponding to the detected temperature information. For example when the detected temperature information still satisfies the constrained temperature condition such as the condition of operation the electronic device may terminate a call function operation . Alternatively when the detected temperature information satisfies a restricted temperature condition such as the condition of operation the electronic device may perform cool down processing operation for a call function with a call function termination. During this operation the electronic device may deactivate the re call button . The electronic device may perform a control to activate the re call button after a specific time for example a time set for cool down release elapses.

Screen interfaces will now be described with references to for various operations described above. describes a screen interface that may be used during cool down operation or when the restricted temperature conditions occurs such as in operations or . describes screen interfaces that may be used during the terminate function operation or during a constrained temperature condition or .

Additionally the electronic device may output call availability schedule information relating to a cool down release. The call availability schedule information may be set based on experimentally or statistically obtained data for example experimental data from a restricted temperature state to a time point at which the electronic device is changed to a state of less than a specified temperature for example 36 C. 96.8 F. . Alternatively the call availability schedule information may be adjusted corresponding to a user setting. According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the call availability schedule information may vary depending on hardware characteristics of the electronic device or characteristics of a region where the electronic device is sold.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the call availability schedule information may be differently changed and outputted corresponding to a real time temperature detection of the electronic device . For example the electronic device may perform a temperature detection in real time or in a specific period in a call function termination and activation suppression state for example a state in which a function access is blocked temporarily not to allow a call function corresponding to cool down processing. When the detected temperature information satisfies a specified temperature for example a constrained temperature condition for example 40 C. 104 F. the electronic device may adjust the call availability schedule information for example adjust 7 min to 3 min and output it. According to various embodiments of the present disclosure when the detected temperature information is changed to a specified temperature for example a less than 38 C. 100.4 F. the electronic device may change the call availability schedule information into the call availability guide information as shown in a state . According to various embodiments of the present disclosure when the detected temperature information is out of a restricted temperature condition for example a less then 42 C. 107.6 F. the electronic device may change the call availability schedule information into the call availability guide information as shown in a state .

In correspondence to cool down release the electronic device may remove the guide information corresponding to cool down processing and may output the call availability notification information as shown in a state . The call availability notification information may include rule information applied during a call. The call availability notification information may output a right before call virtual button for re performing a call performed right before cool down processing. When the right before call virtual button is selected the electronic device may automatically re perform a call function performed right before cool down processing. For example the electronic device may automatically attempt a call connection with another electronic device.

When the timer count information is changed to less than a specified value for example less than 10 sec the electronic device may output a function termination warning screen as shown in a state . The function termination warning screen may include a function termination schedule time . The function termination schedule time may be changed corresponding to a timer count.

When the function termination schedule time elapses as shown in a state the electronic device may output a screen corresponding to a function termination to the display . For example the function termination screen may include information for example caller information caller image information and so on relating to a call performed before a call function termination. According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the electronic device may store call log information on a terminated function in correspondence to the elapse of the function termination schedule time .

When the detected temperature information satisfies a specified constrained temperature condition for example 40 C. 104 F. such as the condition of operation due to a temperature rise as shown in a state the electronic device may output a function restriction warning message to the display . The function restriction warning message may include warning content and a warning message check virtual button . When the warning message check virtual button is selected the electronic device may remove the outputted function restriction warning message. In correspondence to the function restriction warning message removal as shown in a state the electronic device may output a call function execution screen to the display . After the warning message output the electronic device may perform a temperature detection such as during operation in a specific period such as after elapse of the basic communication performance time in operation or in real time. According to various embodiments of the present disclosure after the function restriction warning message output the electronic device may process a temperature detection period differently from a temperature detection period before the function restriction warning message output. For example the electronic device may set a temperature detection period faster after the function restriction warning message output.

When the detected temperature information satisfies a restricted temperature condition for example 42 C. 107.6 F. such as the condition in operation due to a temperature rise as shown in a state the electronic device may output a cool down warning message relating to cool down processing to the display such as in operation . The cool down warning message for example may include timer count information for warning a cool down execution time point and a call end virtual button .

When the call end virtual button is selected or the timer driving is completed as shown in a state the electronic device may output a screen corresponding to cool down processing to the display . The cool down processing screen may include a home screen and an emergency call function virtual button . The electronic device may not perform screen switching even if an input event occurs as maintaining the home screen in a lock state. When the emergency call function virtual button is selected the electronic device may attempt a call connection to a specified phone number regardless of the lock of the home screen .

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure when a specified limited temperature condition such as the condition of operation for example more than 46 C. 114.8 F. is satisfied in a state that a communication function is executed as shown in a state the electronic device may process power off such as in operation . In this case the electronic device may process a communication function termination and another electronic device transmission of a message relating to a communication function termination. Although it is described above that the state is changed into the state embodiments of the present disclosure are not limited thereto. When the detected temperature information satisfies a limited temperature condition during a process for performing temperature detection the electronic device may perform power off processing corresponding to the state . For example when a limited temperature condition is satisfied as a temperature of a device rises due to an outside air temperature in a cool down state as shown in a state the electronic device may process power off. Additionally when a limited temperature condition is satisfied as a temperature of a device rises in an operation for outputting a warning message as shown in a state the electronic device may process power off. Additionally when the detected temperature information satisfies a limited temperature condition during timer driving the electronic device may perform power off processing in a state .

The electronic device may be in a wearable form. In relation to this the electronic device may include a device part and a wearing part . The device part may include hardware relating to at least one user function support such as a call function including a display area. The device part for example may output a function termination schedule time when it becomes a specified device overheat state due to a temperature rise of a device during call function performance. The function termination schedule time for example may represent a termination schedule time point of a call function in execution or may represent a cool down execution time point.

When the electronic device is a watch type the wearing part for example may be prepared with various types such as a band type a chain type and a belt type in order to allow a user to wear the device part on a wrist. The wearing part may have various formats according to a wearable form. For example when the electronic device is a necklace type the wearing part may have a necklace strap form. is a flowchart illustrating a communication function control related processor management according to various embodiments of the present disclosure. The application processor may have a sleep state during a call in operation . In relation to this while the application processor shifts into a sleep state the communication processor receives a call connection request and establishes a call channel.

When a call function is executed the communication processor may check a PAM Thermistor in operation . For example the communication processor may check the PAM Thermistor in a specified specific period for example a 10 sec period . In operation the communication processor may check whether the detected temperature information is more than a surface temperature of 42 C. 107.6 F. When it is more than the surface temperature of 42 C. 107.6 F. the communication processor may perform 42 C. 107.6 F. notification in operation . When it is less than the surface temperature of 42 C. 107.6 F. the communication processor may check whether a notification for the detected temperature information AlreadyNotiSent is performed in operation . When the notification for the detected temperature information is performed the processor management branches into operation and re performs a temperature check corresponding to a specific period.

When the notification for the detected temperature information is not performed the communication processor may check whether the detected temperature information is more than a surface temperature of 40 C. 104 F. in operation . When it is more than the surface temperature of 40 C. 104 F. the communication processor may check whether the call function is maintained for more than 3 min in operation . When the call function is maintained for more than the surface temperature of 40 C. 104 F. the communication processor may check whether the call function is maintained for more than 3 min in operation . In operation if it is less than the surface temperature of 40 C. 104 F. the communication processor may check whether it is more than a surface temperature of 38 in operation . When it is more than the surface temperature of 38 C. the communication processor may check whether a communication function for example a call function is maintained for more than 3 min in operation . When the communication function is maintained for more than 3 min the communication processor may perform a 38 C. notification in operation .

In correspondence to performing a temperature information notification detected in operation or operation the communication processor may set an AlreadyNotiSent value to 1 in operation . For example the communication processor may set that a notification for the detected temperature information is performed. After operation operation and operation the communication processor may branch into operation and re perform subsequent operations. According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the communication processor may deliver an interrupt for temperature notification to the application processor as performing the detected temperature information notification in operation operation and operation .

As described above the application processor in a sleep state during a call in operation may check whether the interrupt relates to a 38 C. notification or a 40 C. 104 F. notification in operation . When the interrupt relates to a 38 C. notification or a 40 C. 104 F. notification is received the application processor may output a warning popup in operation . The application processor may remove a heat generation state notification popup in correspondence to the elapse of a specific time for example after 5 sec . The application processor may branch into operation and may be shifted into a sleep state during a call.

If the interrupt does not relate to a 38 C. notification or a 40 C. 104 F. notification in operation the application processor may check whether an interrupt relating to a 42 C. 107.6 F. notification is received in operation . If the interrupt does not relate to the 42 C. 107.6 F. notification the application processor may branch into operation and may be shifted into a sleep state.

If the interrupt for the 42 C. 107.6 F. notification is received in operation the application processor may output an overheating dialog popup in operation . The application processor may output an OK virtual key button additionally during the overheating dialog popup output process. The application processor may remove the overheating dialog popup after the OK virtual key button is pressed or waiting for a specific time for example 1 min . Then the application processor may process a cool down mode entry in operation .

Referring to the electronic device for example may configure all or part of the above mentioned electronic device shown in . The electronic device may include application processor AP a communication module a subscriber identification module SIM card a memory a sensor module an input device a display an interface an audio module a camera module a power management module a battery an indicator and a motor .

The AP may control a plurality of hardware or software components connected to the AP and also may perform various data processing and operations by executing an operating system or an application program. The AP may be implemented with a system on chip SoC for example. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the AP may further include a graphic processing unit GPU not shown and or an image signal processor. The AP may include at least part for example the cellular module of components shown in . The AP may load commands or data received from at least one of other components for example nonvolatile memory and process them and may store various data in a nonvolatile memory.

The communication module may have the same or similar configuration to the communication interface of . The communication module may include a cellular module a WiFi module a BT module a GPS module an NFC module and a radio frequency RF module .

The cellular module for example may provide voice call video call text service or internet service through communication network. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the cellular module may perform a distinction and authentication operation on an electronic device in a communication network by using a subscriber identification module for example the SIM card . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the cellular module may perform at least part of a function that the AP provides. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the cellular module may further include a communication processor CP .

Each of the WiFi module the BT module the GPS module and the NFC module may include a processor for processing data transmitted received through a corresponding module. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure at least part for example at least one of the cellular module the WiFi module the BT module the GPS module and the NFC module may be included in one integrated chip IC or IC package.

The RF module for example may transmit receive communication signals for example RF signals . The RF module for example may include a transceiver a power amp module PAM a frequency filter a low noise amplifier LNA or an antenna. According to another embodiment of the present disclosure at least one of the cellular module the WiFi module the BT module the GPS module and the NFC module may transmit receive RF signals through a separate RF module.

The SIM card may include a card including a SIM and or an embedded SIM and also may include unique identification information for example an integrated circuit card identifier ICCID or subscriber information for example an international mobile subscriber identity IMSI .

The memory for example the memory may include an internal memory or an external memory . The internal memory may include at least one of a volatile memory for example dynamic RAM DRAM static RAM SRAM synchronous dynamic RAM SDRAM and a non volatile memory for example one time programmable ROM OTPROM programmable ROM PROM erasable and programmable ROM EPROM electrically erasable and programmable ROM EEPROM mask ROM flash ROM NAND flash memory and NOR flash memory .

The external memory may further include flash drive for example compact flash CF secure digital SD micro Micro SD Mini SD extreme digital xD or a memory stick. The external memory may be functionally and or physically connected to the electronic device through various interfaces.

The sensor module measures physical quantities or detects an operating state of the electronic device thereby converting the measured or detected information into electrical signals. The sensor module may include at least one of a gesture sensor A a gyro sensor B a barometric pressure sensor C a magnetic sensor D an acceleration sensor E a grip sensor F a proximity sensor G a color sensor H for example a red green blue RGB sensor a biometric sensor I a temperature humidity sensor J an illumination sensor K and an ultra violet UV sensor M. Additionally or alternatively the sensor module may include an E nose sensor an electromyography EMG sensor an electroencephalogram EEG sensor an electrocardiogram ECG sensor an infra red IR sensor an iris sensor or a fingerprint sensor. The sensor module may further include a control circuit for controlling at least one sensor therein. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the electronic device may further include a processor configured to control the sensor module as part of or separately from the AP and thus may control the sensor module while the AP is in a sleep state.

The input device may include a touch panel a digital pen sensor a key or an ultrasonic input device . The touch panel may use at least one of capacitive resistive infrared or ultrasonic methods for example. Additionally the touch panel may further include a control circuit. The touch panel may further include a tactile layer to provide tactile response to a user.

The digital pen sensor for example may include a sheet for recognition as part of a touch panel or a separate sheet for recognition. The key may include a physical button an optical key or a keypad for example. The ultrasonic input device may check data by detecting sound waves through a microphone for example a microphone in the electronic device through an input tool generating ultrasonic signals.

The display for example the display may include a panel a hologram device or a projector . The panel may have the same or similar configuration to the display of . The panel may be implemented to be flexible transparent or wearable for example. The panel and the touch panel may be configured with one module. The hologram may show three dimensional images in the air by using the interference of light. The projector may display an image by projecting light on a screen. The screen for example may be placed inside or outside the electronic device . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the display may further include a control circuit for controlling the panel the hologram device or the projector .

The interface may include a high definition multimedia interface HDMI a universal serial bus USB an optical interface or a D subminiature sub for example. The interface for example may be included in the communication interface shown in . Additionally or alternately the interface may include a mobile high definition link MHL interface a secure Digital SD card multi media card MMC interface or an infrared data association IrDA standard interface.

The audio module may convert sound into electrical signals and convert electrical signals into sounds. At least some components of the audio module for example may be included in the input output interface shown in . The audio module may process sound information inputted outputted through a speaker a receiver an earphone or a microphone .

The camera module as a device for capturing a still image and a video may include at least one image sensor for example a front sensor or a rear sensor a lens not shown an image signal processor ISP not shown or a flash not shown for example an LED or a xenon lamp .

The power management module may manage the power of the electronic device . Although not shown in the drawings the power management module may include a power management IC PMIC a charger IC or a battery or fuel gauge for example. The PMIC may have a wired and or wireless charging method. As the wireless charging method for example there is a magnetic resonance method a magnetic induction method or an electromagnetic method. An additional circuit for wireless charging for example a circuit such as a coil loop a resonant circuit or a rectifier circuit may be added. The battery gauge may measure the remaining amount of the battery or a voltage current or temperature thereof during charging. The battery for example may include a rechargeable battery and or a solar battery.

The indicator may display a specific state of the electronic device or part thereof for example the AP for example a booting state a message state or a charging state. The motor may convert electrical signals into mechanical vibration and may generate vibration or haptic effect. Although not shown in the drawings the electronic device may include a processing device for example a GPU for mobile TV support. A processing device for mobile TV support may process media data according to the standards such as digital multimedia broadcasting DMB digital video broadcasting DVB or MediaFLO.

Each of the above mentioned components of the electronic device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure may be configured with at least one component and the name of a corresponding component may vary according to the kind of an electronic device. According to various embodiments of the present disclosure an electronic device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure may include at least one of the above mentioned components may not include some of the above mentioned components or may further include another component. Additionally some of components in an electronic device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure are configured as one entity so that functions of previous corresponding components are performed identically.

Referring to according to an embodiment of the present disclosure the program module may include an operating system OS for controlling a resource relating to an electronic device for example the electronic device and or various applications running on the OS. The OS for example may include android iOS windows symbian tizen or bada.

The program module may include an OS and an application . The OS may include a kernel a middleware and an API . At least part of the program module may be preloaded on an electronic device or may be downloaded from a server for example .

The kernel for example may include a system resource manager or a device driver . The system resource manager may perform the control allocation or retrieval of a system resource. According to an embodiment of the disclosure the system resource manager may include a process management unit a memory management unit or a file system management unit. The device driver for example may include a display driver a camera driver a Bluetooth driver a sharing memory driver a USB driver a keypad driver a WiFi driver an audio driver or an inter process communication IPC driver.

The middleware for example may provide a function that the application requires commonly or may provide various functions to the application through the API in order to allow the application to efficiently use a limited system resource inside the electronic device. According to an embodiment of the disclosure the middleware may include at least one of a runtime library an application manager a window manager a multimedia manager a resource manager a power manager a database manager a package manager a connectivity manager a notification manager a location manager a graphic manager and a security manager .

The runtime library for example may include a library module that a complier uses to add a new function through a programming language while the application is running. The runtime library may perform a function on input output management memory management or an arithmetic function.

The application manager for example may mange the life cycle of at least one application among the applications . The window manager may manage a GUI resource used in a screen. The multimedia manager may recognize a format for playing various media files and may encode or decode a media file by using the codec corresponding to a corresponding format. The resource manager may manage a resource such as a source code a memory or a storage space of at least any one of the applications .

The power manager for example may operate together with a basic input output system BIOS to manage the battery or power and may provide power information necessary for an operation of the electronic device. The database manager may create search or modify a database used in at least one application among the applications . The package manager may manage the installation or update of an application distributed in a package file format.

The connectivity manger may manage a wireless connection such as WiFi or Bluetooth. The notification manager may display or notify an event such as arrival messages appointments and proximity alerts. The location manager may manage location information on an electronic device. The graphic manager may manage a graphic effect to be provided to a user or a user interface relating thereto. The security manager may provide various security functions necessary for system security or user authentication. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure when an electronic device for example the electronic device includes a phone function the middleware may further include a telephony manager for managing a voice or video call function of the electronic device.

The middleware may include a middleware module for forming a combination of various functions of the above mentioned components. The middleware may provide a module specialized for each type of OS to provide differentiated functions. Additionally the middleware may delete part of existing components or add new components dynamically.

The API for example as a set of API programming functions may be provided as another configuration according to OS. For example in the case of android or iOS one API set may be provided for each platform and in the case Tizen at least two API sets may be provided for each platform.

The application for example the application may include at least one application for providing functions such as a home a dialer an SMS MMS an instant message a browser a camera an alarm a contact a voice dial an e mail a calendar a media player an album a clock health care for example measure an exercise amount or blood sugar or environmental information provision for example provide air pressure humidity or temperature information .

According to an embodiment of the disclosure the application may include an application hereinafter referred to as information exchange application for supporting information exchange between the electronic device for example the electronic device and an external electronic device for example the electronic device . The information exchange application for example may include a notification relay application for relaying specific information to the external device or a device management application for managing the external electronic device.

For example the notification relay application may have a function for relaying to an external electronic device for example the electronic device notification information occurring from another application for example an SMS MMS application an e mail application a health care application or an environmental information application of the electronic device. Additionally the notification relay application may receive notification information from an external electronic device and may then provide the received notification information to a user. The device management application for example may manage for example install delete or update at least one function turn on turn off of the external electronic device itself or some components or the brightness or resolution adjustment of a display of an external electronic device for example the electronic device communicating with the electronic device an application operating in the external electronic device or a service for example call service or message service provided from the external device.

According to an embodiment of the disclosure the application may include a specific application for example a health care application according to the property for example as the property of an electronic device when the type of the electronic device is a mobile medical device of the external electronic device for example the electronic device . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the application may include an application received from an external electronic device for example the server or the electronic device . According to an embodiment of the disclosure the application may include a preloaded application or a third party application downloadable from a server. The names of components in the program module according to the shown embodiment may vary depending on the type of OS.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure at least part of the program module may be implemented with software firmware hardware or a combination thereof. At least part of the programming module for example may be implemented for example executed by a processor for example the AP . At least part of the programming module may include a module a program a routine sets of instructions or a process to perform at least one function for example.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure hardware failures or user damages for example discomfort and low temperature burn may be prevented by restricting functions corresponding to heat generation.

The term module used in various embodiments of the present disclosure for example may mean a unit including a combination of at least one of hardware software and firmware. The term module and the term unit logic logical block component or circuit may be interchangeably used. A module may be a minimum unit or part of an integrally configured component. A module may be a minimum unit performing at least one function or part thereof. A module may be implemented mechanically or electronically. For example module according to various embodiments of the present disclosure may include at least one of an application specific integrated circuit ASIC chip performing certain operations field programmable gate arrays FPGAs or a programmable logic device all of which are known or to be developed in the future.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure at least part of a device for example modules or functions thereof or a method for example operations according to this disclosure for example as in a form of a programming module may be implemented using an instruction stored in computer readable storage media. When at least one processor for example the processor executes an instruction it may perform a function corresponding to the instruction. The non transitory computer readable storage media may include the memory for example.

The non transitory computer readable storage media may include hard disks floppy disks magnetic media for example magnetic tape optical media for example CD ROM and DVD magneto optical media for example floptical disk and hardware devices for example ROM RAM or flash memory . Additionally a program instruction may include high level language code executable by a computer using an interpreter in addition to machine code created by a complier. The hardware device may be configured to operate as at least one software module to perform an operation of various embodiments of the present disclosure and vice versa.

According to the above mentioned various embodiments of the present disclosure computer readable recording media may store at least one instruction executed by at least one processor and the at least one instruction may include performing a temperature detection corresponding to a communication function execution driving a timer for warning the communication function termination when temperature information detected corresponding to the temperature detection satisfies a specified temperature condition and outputting count information corresponding to the timer driving.

A module or a programming module according to various embodiments of the present disclosure may include at least one of the above mentioned components may not include some of the above mentioned components or may further include another component. Operations performed by a module a programming module or other components according to various embodiments of the present disclosure may be executed through a sequential parallel repetitive or heuristic method. Additionally some operations may be executed in a different order or may be omitted. Or other operations may be added.

Moreover the embodiments disclosed in this specification are suggested for the description and understanding of technical content but do not limit the range of the present disclosure. Accordingly the range of the present disclosure should be interpreted as including all modifications or various other embodiments based on the technical idea of the present disclosure.

