---

title: Mobile network operator selection
abstract: A mobile communication device may include a universal integrated circuit card to store a plurality of mobile network operator (MNO) profiles. The mobile communication device may further include logic configured to retrieve the stored plurality of MNO profiles from the UICC; obtain a list of available MNOs by communicating with base stations located within a transmission range of the mobile communication device; obtain a list of partner MNOs from a subscription system; filter the obtained list of available MNOs based on the obtained list of partner MNOs; and display selectable MNOs based on the retrieved MNO profiles and based on the filtered list of available MNOs.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09426731&OS=09426731&RS=09426731
owner: VERIZON PATENT AND LICENSING INC.
number: 09426731
owner_city: Basking Ridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150430
---
In order to satisfy the needs and demands of users of mobile communication devices providers of wireless communication services continue to improve and expand available services as well as networks used to deliver such services. One aspect of such improvements includes the development of wireless access networks as well as options to utilize such wireless access networks. A mobile communication device may include a Subscriber Identity Module SIM card that includes information that enables the mobile communication device to connect to a wireless access network. Managing information stored on a SIM card may pose various challenges.

The following detailed description refers to the accompanying drawings. The same reference numbers in different drawings identify the same or similar elements.

A SIM card may be configured for a subscription that may be established with a mobile network operator MNO when the SIM card is included in a wireless communication device e.g. a mobile phone . However a user may desire to use a SIM card for multiple subscriptions. As an example the user may bring the mobile phone to a different country where a different set of MNOs is operating. As another example the user may wish to use the same mobile phone with a first subscription and a first MNO for business purposes and with a second subscription and a second MNO for personal purposes. As yet another example a device with an embedded machine to machine M2M wireless interface may be installed in various locations with different locations being served by different MNOs. A SIM card configured for multiple subscriptions would satisfy such requirements. The configuration for multiple subscriptions may enable the mobile communication device to establish a connection with different MNOs depending on the situation.

Implementations described herein relate to mobile operator selection. A wireless communication device also referred to herein as User Equipment UE may include a Universal Integrated Circuit Card UICC . The UICC may be configured for multiple subscriptions with each subscription associated with a particular MNO and the UE may be configured to activate one of the multiple subscriptions based on a user selection and or based on an automatic selection.

The UICC may store MNO profiles for different MNOs. A particular MNO profile may include a mobile country code MCC and a mobile network code MNC associated with the particular MNO profile a telephone number assigned to the UICC by the MNO of the particular MNO profile an authentication key associated with the particular MNO profile an activation application associated with the particular MNO profile a billing application associated with the particular MNO profile and or an updates application associated with the particular MNO profile.

A subscription system which may in some implementations also function as an Over the air programming OTA activation system for the UICC may maintain a list of partner MNOs for the UICC. A partner MNO may include a particular MNO that has a service agreement with a provider of the UICC and or UE. An MNO profile for a partner MNO may be indicated as selectable to the user for activation when the user is provided with a list of selectable MNOs.

The UE may select to perform activation or re activation of the UICC. The UE may select to perform the activation or re activation in response to detecting that the UICC has been connected to the UE in response to detecting that a communication capability of the UE has been activated in response to detecting that the UE is located in a new geographic area and or in response to a different type of trigger event.

The UE may retrieve stored MNO profiles from the UICC may obtain a list of available MNOs by communicating with base stations located within a transmission range of the mobile communication device and may obtain a list of partner MNOs from a subscription system. The UE may further filter the obtained list of available MNOs based on the obtained list of partner MNOs and may display selectable MNOs based on the retrieved MNO profiles and based on the filtered list of available MNOs.

In some implementations the UE may further receive a selection of one of the selectable MNOs from a user may activate an MNO security domain associated with the selected MNO in the UICC and may connect to the selected one of the selectable MNOs in response to receiving the selection of one of the selectable MNOs from the user. In other implementations the UE may automatically select one of the selectable MNOs based on one or more criteria such as based on a ranked list of preferred MNOs a signal strength associated with particular one of the available MNOs and or a particular application associated with the mobile communication device may activate an MNO security domain associated with the selected MNO in the UICC and may connect to the selected one of the selectable MNOs in response to automatically selecting of one of the selectable MNOs.

The UE may connect to the subscription system to obtain the list of partner MNOs. The UE may first attempt to use an out of band method such as a WiFi or a Bluetooth connection. If an out of band method is not available the UE may determine whether a default subscription is available with a default MNO and may connect to the subscription system using the default subscription. If no default subscription is available or no default subscription has been designated the UE may select an MNO from the list of available MNOs based on one or more criteria such as signal strength and may connect to the subscription system using the selected MNO. If no MNOs are available the UE may access a roaming list in the UICC may select a base station based on the roaming list and may connect to the subscription system via the selected base station.

In addition to a list of partner MNOs associated with the UICC the subscription system may store update files for particular MNOs. The UICC may obtain update files for particular MNOs associated with the stored MNO profiles when obtaining the list of partner MNOs and may update the particular MNOs based on the obtained update files.

UE may include a mobile communication device e.g. a mobile phone a smart phone a phablet device a wearable computer device e.g. a head mounted display computer device a wristwatch computer device etc. a global positioning system GPS device and or another type of wireless device a laptop computer a tablet computer or another type of portable computer a media playing device a portable gaming system and or any other type of mobile computer device with communication and output capabilities.

In some implementations UE may correspond to an embedded wireless device that communicates wirelessly with other devices over a machine to machine interface. For example UE may be electrically connected to any electronic device with a microcontroller such as a microcontroller controlling one or more actuators a microcontroller controlling one or more sensors a microcontroller that performs data processing and or another type of electronic device with a microcontroller. Examples of such devices may include a health monitoring device e.g. a blood pressure monitoring device a blood glucose monitoring device etc. an asset tracking device e.g. a system monitoring the geographic location of a fleet of vehicles etc. a device controlling one or more functions of a vehicle e.g. a climate control system an engine monitoring system etc. a device controlling an electronic sign e.g. an electronic billboard etc. a device controlling a manufacturing system e.g. a robot arm an assembly line etc. a device controlling a security system e.g. a camera a motion sensor a window sensor etc. a device controlling a power system e.g. a smart grid monitoring device etc. a device controlling a financial transaction system e.g. a point of sale terminal a vending machine etc. and or another type of electronic device.

UE may include a UICC . UICC may include one or more SIMs that store information for multiple subscriptions that may be activated for UE with different MNOs. UICC may be electrically coupled to UE by being inserted into a slot of UE not shown in . In some implementations such as M2M implementations UICC may be integrally formed in UE . UE may wirelessly communicate with one or more of access networks .

Access network may be associated with a particular MNO and may provide access to core network for wireless devices such as UE . The MNO may via access network enable UE to provide mobile telephone service and or data services to a user. Access network may include a base station and UE may wirelessly communicate with access network via base station . Access network may establish a packet data network connection between UE and core network . For example access network may establish an Internet Protocol IP connection between UE and core network .

Access network may include a Long Term Evolution LTE access network e.g. an evolved packet core EPC network based on the LTE standard specified by the 3Generation Partnership Project 3GPP . The LTE access network may include one or more devices that implement logical entities interconnected via standardized interfaces and that provide packet switched services between UE and core network .

Access network may include a Code Division Multiple Access CDMA access network based on for example a CDMA2000 standard. For example the CDMA access network may include a CDMA one times radio transmission technology 1 RTT network a CDMA High Rate Packet Data HRPD network which may include a CDMA evolution optimized data only EV DO network or a CDMA eHRPD network which may provide access to an LTE access network .

Access network may include a Global System for Mobile Communications GSM access network based on a GSM standard. For example the GSM access network may include a General Packet Radio Service GPRS network an Enhanced Data Rates for GSM Evolution EDGE network a Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS network also known as a wideband CDMA W CDMA network or a High Speed Packet Access HSPA network.

Core network may include a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN a metropolitan area network MAN a public land mobile network PLMN an optical network a cable television network a satellite network a wireless network e.g. a Code Division Multiple Access CDMA network a general packet radio service GPRS network and or an LTE network an ad hoc network a telephone network e.g. the Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN or a cellular network an intranet the Internet or a combination of networks. Core network may allow the delivery of Internet Protocol IP services to UE and may interface with other external networks. Core network may include one or more server devices and or network devices or other types of computation or communication devices. In one example implementation core network may include an Internet Protocol Multimedia Subsystem IMS network not shown in . An IMS network may include a network for delivering IP multimedia services as specified by 3GPP and may provide media flows between UE device and external IP networks or external circuit switched networks not shown in .

Subscription system may include one or more devices such as computer devices and or server devices which maintain subscription information. The subscription information may include information relating to particular MNO profiles. Subscription system may function as an OTA activation system for UICC with respect to one or more MNOs associated with particular access networks . Furthermore subscription system may include a partner list of MNOs for UICC . The partner list may specify which particular MNOs have an existing arrangement with an entity associated with UICC . Moreover subscription system may maintain update files for particular MNOs and may provide the update files to UICC when UE requests a list of partner MNOs or in response to another type of event.

Although shows exemplary components of environment in other implementations environment may include fewer components different components differently arranged components or additional functional components than depicted in . Additionally or alternatively one or more components of environment may perform functions described as being performed by one or more other components of environment .

IC area may include one or more SIM modules. For example IC area may include a Universal SIM USIM that stores subscriber information and authentication information for connecting to a GSM access network and or for connecting to an LTE access network an Internet Protocol Multimedia Subsystem IMS that stores a subscriber s IMS identity such as a public IMS identity and a private IMS identity and or a CDMA SIM CSIM that stores subscriber information and authentication information for accessing a CDMA access network. Furthermore IC area may include one or more MNO profiles and a profile handler for enabling a particular MNO profile based on a user selection or based on an automatic selection. The MNO profiles may be accessed by UE using a profile selection application programming interface API .

Although shows example components of UICC in other implementations UICC may include fewer components different components differently arranged components or additional components than depicted in . Additionally or alternatively one or more components of UICC may perform the tasks described as being performed by one or more other components of UICC .

Housing may enclose UE and may protect the components of UE from the outside elements e.g. moisture dirt etc. . Touchscreen may include a display device and an input device configured to detect a user s touch. While illustrates UE with a touchscreen in other implementations UE may not necessarily include a touchscreen. For example UE may include a display and a keyboard and or keypad. Touchscreen may include a liquid crystal display LCD an electronic ink display e.g. an electrophoretic display an electroluminescent display and or another type of display. Furthermore touchscreen may include touch sensors such as capacitive sensors e.g. surface capacitive sensors projected capacitive touch sensors etc. resistive sensors e.g. analog resistive sensors digital resistive sensors etc. optical sensors e.g. optical imaging sensors rear diffused illumination sensors infrared grid sensors diffused surface illumination sensors etc. acoustic wave sensors e.g. surface acoustic wave sensors bending wave sensors etc. and or another type of touch sensors. Furthermore touchscreen may include sensors to sense an amount of force being applied to touchscreen such as piezoresistive sensors.

Microphone may receive audio signals and convert the received audio signals to electrical signals for UE . Speaker may receive electrical signals from within UE and generate audio signals based on the received electrical signals.

UE may include additional sensors not shown in . For example UE may include one or more tilt sensors such as accelerometers and or gyroscopes configured to sense a tilt position and or orientation of UE in space one or more Global Positioning System GPS receivers one or more magnetic field sensors e.g. to sense the magnetic North motion detection sensors to sense motion in the vicinity of UE and or other types of sensors.

Although shows exemplary components of UE in other implementations UE may include fewer components different components differently arranged components or additional components than those depicted in . Additionally or alternatively one or more components of UE may perform functions described as being performed by one or more other components of UE .

Processing unit may include one or more processors microprocessors application specific integrated circuits ASICs field programmable gate arrays FPGAs and or other processing logic. Processing unit may control operation of device and its components.

Memory may include a random access memory RAM or another type of dynamic storage device a read only memory ROM or another type of static storage device a removable memory card and or another type of memory to store data and instructions that may be used by processing unit .

User interface may allow a user to input information to device and or to output information from device . Examples of user interface may include a speaker to receive electrical signals and output audio signals e.g. speaker a camera to receive image and or video signals and output electrical signals a microphone to receive sounds and output electrical signals e.g. microphone buttons e.g. a joystick control buttons a keyboard or keys of a keypad and or a touchscreen to receive control commands e.g. touchscreen a display such as an LCD to output visual information e.g. touchscreen an actuator to cause device to vibrate and or any other type of input or output device. In some implementations such as a device included in UICC user interface may correspond to contacts .

Communication interface may include a transceiver that enables mobile communication device to communicate with other devices and or systems via wireless communications e.g. radio frequency infrared and or visual optics etc. wired communications e.g. conductive wire twisted pair cable coaxial cable transmission line fiber optic cable and or waveguide etc. or a combination of wireless and wired communications. Communication interface may include a transmitter that converts baseband signals to radio frequency RF signals and or a receiver that converts RF signals to baseband signals. Communication interface may be coupled to antenna assembly for transmitting and receiving RF signals.

Communication interface may include a logical component that includes input and or output ports input and or output systems and or other input and output components that facilitate the transmission of data to other devices. For example communication interface may include a network interface card e.g. Ethernet card for wired communications and or a wireless network interface e.g. a WiFi card for wireless communications. Communication interface may also include a universal serial bus USB port for communications over a cable a Bluetooth wireless interface a radio frequency identification RFID interface a near field communications NFC wireless interface and or any other type of interface that converts data from one form to another form.

Antenna assembly may include one or more antennas to transmit and or receive RF signals. Antenna assembly may for example receive RF signals from communication interface and transmit the signals and receive RF signals and provide them to communication interface .

As described herein device may perform certain operations in response to processing unit executing software instructions contained in a computer readable medium such as memory . A computer readable medium may be defined as a non transitory memory device. A non transitory memory device may include memory space within a single physical memory device or spread across multiple physical memory devices. The software instructions may be read into memory from another computer readable medium or from another device via communication interface . The software instructions contained in memory may cause processing unit to perform processes that will be described later. Alternatively hardwired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions to implement processes described herein. Thus implementations described herein are not limited to any specific combination of hardware circuitry and software.

Although shows example components of device in other implementations device may include fewer components different components differently arranged components or additional components than depicted in . Additionally or alternatively one or more components of device may perform the tasks described as being performed by one or more other components of device .

Root security domain may correspond to a root security domain for UICC . A particular security domain may support authentication key handling encryption decryption and verification of applications within a particular domain. The root security domain may be associated with the issuer entity of UICC and may authenticate communications with subscription system . MNO security domain may correspond to an issuer security domain associated with a particular MNO. MNO security domain may authenticate communications with the particular MNO.

Profile handler may activate a particular MNO security domain and may handle authentication with a particular MNO based on an activated MNO security domain. Furthermore profile handler may provide information relating to stored MNO profiles in MNO DB to UE . MNO DB may store information relating to particular MNO profiles. Exemplary information that may be stored in MNO DB is described below with reference to . Profile selection API may function as an interface with UE .

Although shows exemplary functional components of UICC in other implementations UICC may include fewer functional components different functional components differently arranged functional components or additional functional components than depicted in . Additionally or alternatively one or more functional components of UICC may perform functions described as being performed by one or more other functional components of UICC .

UICC interface may interface with UICC . For example UICC interface may request information from UICC via profile selection API and or may update information in UICC via profile selection API . MNO selection manager may manage selection of an MNO. MNO selection manager may obtain MNO profile information from UICC may obtain information relating to available MNOs from communication interface of UE and or may obtain information relating to partner MNOs from subscription system via subscription system interface .

In some implementations MNO selection manager may provide information to user interface to display to the user and may receive a user selection of an MNO via user interface . In other implementations such as in an M2M implementation MNO selection manager may select an MNO automatically based on one or more criteria. For example MNO selection manager may select an MNO automatically based on a ranked list of preferred MNOs based on the signal strength of signals received from base stations associated with detected available MNOs based on a particular application of UE that has been activated and or based on another type of criterion.

Subscription system interface may enable communication with subscription system . For example subscription system interface may send a request to subscription system for a list of partner MNOs associated with UICC . As another example subscription system interface may request and or receive updates for a particular MNO profile from subscription system .

User interface may generate a user interface that is displayed on touchscreen and or another type of display device to enable the user to select a particular MNO from a list of selectable MNOs. User interface may receive a selection of an MNO from a user and may provide the received selection to MNO selection manager .

Although shows exemplary functional components of UE in other implementations UE may include fewer functional components different functional components differently arranged functional components or additional functional components than depicted in . Additionally or alternatively one or more functional components of UE may perform functions described as being performed by one or more other functional components of UE .

MNO ID field may store an identifier associated with the particular MNO. For example the identifier may include the MCC and the MNC associated with the particular MNO. Phone number field may store a telephone number assigned to UICC by the particular MNO. In some implementations different MNOs may assign the same telephone number to UICC . Authentication keys field may store authentication keys that may be used to authentication UICC during the activation of a subscription with the particular MNO.

Activation application field may store or point to an activation application for the particular MNO. The activation application may perform activation of a subscription for UICC with the particular MNO. Billing application field may store or point to a billing application for the particular MNO. The billing application may perform billing functions for a subscription with the particular MNO. Updates application field may store or point to an update application for the particular MNO. The update application may perform updates of MNO profile entry . Roaming list field may store a roaming list for the particular MNO.

Although shows exemplary components that may be stored in MNO DB in other implementations MNO DB may store fewer components different components differently arranged components or additional components than depicted in .

The process of may be performed in response to one or more trigger events. As an example a user may activate MNO selection application when the user selects to activate UICC or when the user selects to switch to a different MNO. As another example MNO selection application may perform the process of automatically in response to detecting that a new UICC has been connected to UE in response to detecting that a communication capability of UE has been activated e.g. the user has taken UE out of airplane mode etc. in response to detecting that UE is located in a new geographic area e.g. a Global Position System GPS receiver of UE detects that UE is in a new country etc. and or in response to another type of trigger event.

The process of may include retrieving stored MNO profiles from a UICC block and displaying the retrieved the MNO profiles block . For example MNO selection manager may request MNO profiles stored in MNO DB via profile selection API and may provide received MNO profile information to user interface for display on touchscreen . Available MNOs may be scanned for block and a list of available MNOs may be obtained block . For example communication interface of UE may via antenna assembly exchange signals with base stations that are within transmission range of UE and or base stations within the transmission range of which UE is located. As an example UE may monitor for signals transmitted by base station by which base station advertises its presence. As another example UE may send a signal that request a response from any base station within transmission range of the sent signal. A signal received from base station may include an MNO identifier e.g. MCC and MNC of an MNO and MNO selection manager may generate a list of available MNOs based on the MNO identifiers received via signals from base stations .

A subscription system may be connected to block and an MNO partner list may be obtained from the subscription system block . UE may connect to subscription system using a process described below with reference to . UE may request an MNO partner list for UICC from subscription system subscription system may provide the requested MNO partner list in a response message and MNO selection manager may retrieve the list of MNO partners from the response message received from subscription system . In some implementations subscription system may additionally provide in the response message or in connection with the response message update files from one or more MNO profiles stored in UICC . The update files may include for example updated authentication keys an updated activation application an updated updates application an updated billing application an updated roaming list and or other types of updates.

The obtained list of available MNOs may be filtered based on the obtained MNO partner list block and selectable MNOs may be indicated in the displayed list of MNO profiles based on the filtered list of available MNOs block . For example only MNOs on the partner list may be selected by the user since the provider of UICC may need to have an existing relationship with an MNO such as a partner agreement before UE activates a subscription for UICC for the MNO. Thus out of the detected available MNOs based on the received base station signals only MNOs on the partner list of MNOs may be indicated as selectable on the display provided to the user.

A selection of an available MNO may be made block and a connection may be established to the selected MNO block . In some implementations a user may select an MNO from the selectable MNOs via user interface . In other implementations such as in M2M implementations an MNO may be selected automatically by MNO selection manager . As an example MNO selection manager may automatically select an MNO based on a ranked list of preferred MNOs included in MNO selection application . As another example MNO selection manager may automatically select an MNO based on the signal strength of signals received from base stations associated with particular MNOs. For example MNO selection manager may select the selectable MNO associated with the strongest base station signal. As yet another example MNO selection manager may automatically select an MNO based on a particular application installed or activated on UE . For example UE may be configured for various applications and different applications may be partnered with or otherwise associated with particular MNOs. For example in a first implementation UE may be included in a vending machine administered by a first entity partnered with a first MNO and in a second implementation UE may be included in a security camera administered by a second entity partnered with a second MNO.

Upon selection of an MNO MNO selection manager may activate the MNO profile for the selected MNO along with a corresponding MNO security domain in UICC in order to activate a subscription for the selected MNO. UE may then connect to the selected MNO using the activated subscription. For example UE may attach to base station of access network associated with the selected MNO. Furthermore in some implementations UICC may be activated by communicating with subscription system and or another OTA system to perform authentication and or other processes required to complete the activation of the subscription on UICC .

The process of may include detecting activation of an MNO selection application block and determining whether an out of band method is available block . For example once MNO selection application is activated MNO selection application may attempt to establish a connection with subscription system . MNO selection application may first attempt to use an out of band method that does not utilize a wireless connection with a base station such as a wired connection or a short range wireless connection such as a WiFi connection or a Bluetooth connection. If an out of band connection is available block YES a connection may be made to the subscription system using the out of band method block . For example MNO selection application may send a request to subscription system for a list of partner MNOs using the out of band method such as a WiFi connection.

If an out of band method is not available block NO a determination may be made as to whether a default subscription is available block . For example MNO selection application may determine whether a default subscription has been designated and whether the MNO associated with the default subscription is available. If the default subscription is available block YES a connection may be made to the subscription system using the default subscription block . For example MNO selection application may attach to base station of access network of the MNO associated with the default subscription and may send a request to subscription system for a list of partner MNOs via base station .

If a default subscription is not available block NO a determination may be made if any MNOs are available block . For example if no default subscription has been designated or the MNO associated with the default subscription is not available MNO selection application may select one of the available MNOs for connecting to subscription system . For example an MNO associated with base station with the strongest signal may be selected. Thus if an MNO is available block YES a connection may be made to the subscription system using an available MNO block . For example MNO selection application may attach to base station of access network of an available MNO and may send a request to subscription system for a list of partner MNOs via base station to determine which partner MNOs are available.

If an MNO is not available block NO a connection may be made to the subscription system using roaming block . For example MNO selection application may request a roaming connection to a base station associated with an MNO that is unknown to UICC e.g. for which a subscription is not available and may send a request to subscription system for a list of partner MNOs via the roaming connection to the base station.

Further assume that the first MNO associated with base station A is associated with a designated default subscription and that no out of band methods are available. Thus MNO application may select a default subscription from UICC block and may attach to base station A using the selected default subscription signal . Subsequently UE may request subscription information from subscription system via base station A signals and . Subscription system may respond to the request by returning a list of partner MNOs for UICC to UE via base station A signals and .

In response MNO selection application may generate a user interface that includes a list of selectable MNOs. is a diagram of an exemplary user interface that may be generated by MNO selection application in connection with signal flow of . User interface may include a list of available MNO profiles that is stored on UICC . In this case six different subscriptions are potentially available via UICC MNO A MNO B MNO C MNO D MNO E and MNO F.

Furthermore user interface may include a list of available MNOs based on the detected base stations. In this case as shown in four MNOs were detected as being available MNO A associated with base station A MNO D associated with base station D MNO E associated with base station E MNO H associated with base station H. Since MNO H is not associated with a stored MNO profile a subscription with MNO H is not available. Thus only MNO A MNO D and MNO E are associated with available subscription. However the list of partner MNOs received from subscription system may indicate that only MNO A and MNO E are designated partner MNOs associated with UICC . Thus only MNO A and MNO E are indicated as being selectable in user interface . The user may select either MNO A or MNO E.

Returning to assume the user selects MNO E block . In response MNO selection application may activate a security domain associated with MNO E in UICC . Once the security domain is activated UE may activate the subscription associated with MNO E and UE may attach to base station E using the selected subscription signal . Thus in signal flow the user may be able to select a particular MNO for UICC that include multiple subscriptions.

In the preceding specification various preferred embodiments have been described with reference to the accompanying drawings. It will however be evident that various modifications and changes may be made thereto and additional embodiments may be implemented without departing from the broader scope of the invention as set forth in the claims that follow. The specification and drawings are accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative rather than restrictive sense.

As an example while series of blocks have been described with respect to and series of signal flows have been described with respect to the order of the blocks and or signal flows may be modified in other implementations. Further non dependent blocks may be performed in parallel.

It will be apparent that systems and or methods as described above may be implemented in many different forms of software firmware and hardware in the implementations illustrated in the figures. The actual software code or specialized control hardware used to implement these systems and methods is not limiting of the embodiments. Thus the operation and behavior of the systems and methods were described without reference to the specific software code it being understood that software and control hardware can be designed to implement the systems and methods based on the description herein.

Further certain portions described above may be implemented as a component that performs one or more functions. A component as used herein may include hardware such as a processor an ASIC or a FPGA or a combination of hardware and software e.g. a processor executing software .

It should be emphasized that the terms comprises comprising when used in this specification are taken to specify the presence of stated features integers steps or components but does not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps components or groups thereof.

The term logic as used herein may refer to a combination of one or more processors configured to execute instructions stored in one or more memory devices may refer to hardwired circuitry and or may refer to a combination thereof. Furthermore a logic may be included in a single device or may be distributed across multiple and possibly remote devices.

For the purposes of describing and defining the present invention it is additionally noted that the term substantially is utilized herein to represent the inherent degree of uncertainty that may be attributed to any quantitative comparison value measurement or other representation. The term substantially is also utilized herein to represent the degree by which a quantitative representation may vary from a stated reference without resulting in a change in the basic function of the subject matter at issue.

To the extent the aforementioned embodiments collect store or employ personal information provided by individuals it should be understood that such information shall be used in accordance with all applicable laws concerning protection of personal information. Additionally the collection storage and use of such information may be subject to consent of the individual to such activity for example through well known opt in or opt out processes as may be appropriate for the situation and type of information. Storage and use of personal information may be in an appropriately secure manner reflective of the type of information for example through various encryption and anonymization techniques for particularly sensitive information.

No element act or instruction used in the present application should be construed as critical or essential to the embodiments unless explicitly described as such. Also as used herein the article a is intended to include one or more items. Further the phrase based on is intended to mean based at least in part on unless explicitly stated otherwise.

