---

title: Advertisements for applications on an online social network
abstract: In one embodiment, a social-networking system accesses a social graph, receives a request to access a resource of the social graph, generates an advertisement of a third-party application based on the relevance of the third-party application to the user, wherein the relevance of the third-party application is based on social-graph information associated with the user and the third-party application, and sends the advertisement of the third-party application to the client device of the user for display.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09460476&OS=09460476&RS=09460476
owner: Facebook, Inc.
number: 09460476
owner_city: Menlo Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150618
---
This application is a continuation under 35 U.S.C. 120 of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 296 022 filed 4 Jun. 2014 which is a continuation under 35 U.S.C. 120 of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 328 958 filed 16 Dec. 2011 which is incorporated herein by reference.

A social networking system such as a social networking website enables its users to interact with it and with each other through the system. The social networking system may create and store a record often referred to as a user profile in connection with the user. The user profile may include a user s demographic information communication channel information and personal interests. The social networking system may also create and store a record of a user s relationship with other users in the social networking system e.g. social graph as well as provide services e.g. wall posts photo sharing event organization messaging games or advertisements to facilitate social interaction between users in the social networking system. The social networking system may transmit contents and messages related to its services to a user s client device over a network.

In particular embodiments users of a social networking system may access other websites or third party websites e.g. http www.espn.com http www.youtube.com . As an example and not by way of limitation a user using client device may connect to and communicate with third party website through network cloud . Third party website may comprise web server operatively connected to one or more data stores storing user data and webpage information. User data may include for example user name user profile picture and user profile information e.g. location affiliation interest . Webpage information may include for example page layout information scripts webpage content such as text e.g. ASCII or HTML media data e.g. graphics photos video clips and executable code objects e.g. a game executable within a browser window or frame . In particular embodiments a user may use a web browser or special purpose client application hosted on client device to access their party website by sending an HTTP request to web server causing web server to access the one or more data stores and construct one or more webpages or frames displayed in the web browser or the special purpose client application.

A social networking system may communicate and access third party website and vice versa through network cloud . As an example and not by way of limitation a webpage constructed by third party website for a user of a social networking system may contain information from the social networking system such as a frame displaying profile pictures of the user s first degree friends who are currently active on third party website . As an example and not by way of limitation a user s user profile page of a social networking system may contain an embedded video clip that the user posted on third party website . In particular embodiments a webpage constructed by a first website may include one or more inline references that cause the client device to access and display content from a second website by incorporating in the webpage s HTML document Uniform Resource Locations URLs and or script code e.g. JavaScript PHP AJAX that causes a client application hosted on the client device to access the second website to dynamically provide content specified by the script code e.g. profile pictures . In particular embodiments a browser cookie installed by a second website on client device may be used to facilitate accessing the second website. As an example and not by way of limitation requests transmitted to the social networking system for a particular user may include a browser cookie or other token to enable authentication and access to the social networking system for the particular user such as for example to access and display profile pictures of the particular user s first degree friends without the particular user having to manually enter user identification ID and password information of the social networking system.

A social networking system may store records of users and relationships between users in one or more social graphs. illustrates an example social graph . In particular embodiments the social networking system may store social graph in data stores . In particular embodiments social graph may comprise a plurality of user nodes a plurality of concept nodes and a plurality of edges between nodes.

In particular embodiments each user node may correspond to a user of the social networking system. As an example and not by way of limitation when a user registers for an account with the social networking system the social networking system may create a user node corresponding to the user and store the user node in one or more data stores . In particular embodiments the user node may comprise information provided by the user and information gathered by various systems including the social networking system. As an example and not by way of limitation the user may provide his name profile picture contact information birth date gender marital status family status employment education background preferences interests or other demographical information to be included in the user node . In particular embodiments each user node may comprise one or more data objects corresponding to information associated with a user. In particular embodiments each user node may correspond to one or more webpages or one or more user profile pages. As an example and not by way of limitation in response to a request including a user identifier of a particular user system front end may access a corresponding user node based on the user identifier and construct a user profile page comprising a name a profile picture and interests of the particular user.

In particular embodiments each concept node may correspond to a concept of the social networking system. As an example and not by way of limitation a concept may correspond to a place such as for example a movie theater a restaurant a landmark or a city a website such as for example a website associated with the social network system or a third party website an entity such as for example a person a business a group a sports team or a celebrity real or intellectual property such as for example a sculpture a painting a movie a game a song an idea a photograph or a written work an application a game an idea or theory another suitable concept or two or more such concepts. An administrative user of a concept such as for example the owner or administrator of the concept may create a concept nodes by providing information of the concept e.g. by filling out an online form causing the social networking system to create a corresponding concept node and store the concept node in one or more of data stores . A concept node may comprise information of a concept provided by an administrative user of the concept and information gathered by various systems including the social networking system. As an example and not by way of limitation information of a concept may include as a name or a title one or more images e.g. an image of cover page of a book a location e.g. an address a geographical location a website e.g. an URL address contact information e.g. a phone number an email address other suitable concept information or any combination of such information. In particular embodiments each concept node may comprise one or more data objects corresponding to information associated with the concept node . In particular embodiments each concept node may correspond to a webpage. As an example and not by way of limitation in response to a request including a name or an URL address the social networking system may access a corresponding concept node stored in one or more of data stores based on the name and construct a webpage comprising the name one or more images and contact information of the concept.

In particular embodiments an edge connecting a pair of nodes may represent a relationship between the pair of nodes. In particular embodiments each edge may comprise or represent one or more data objects or attributes corresponding to the relationship between a pair of nodes. As an example and not by way of limitation a first user may indicate that a second user is a friend of the first user. In response to this indication the social networking system may transmit a friend request to the second user. If the second user confirms the friend request the social networking system may create an edge connecting the first user and the second user in social graph and store the edge in one or more of data stores . In the example of social graph includes an edge indicating a friend relation between user nodes of user A and user B and an edge indicating a friend relation between user nodes of user C and user B. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates edges with particular attributes connecting user nodes this disclosure contemplates edges with any suitable attributes connecting user nodes. As an example and not by way of limitation an edge may represent a friendship a business relationship a fan relationship a follower relationship a visitor relationship a subscriber relationship a superior subordinate relationship a reciprocal relationship a non reciprocal relationship another suitable type of relationship or two or more such relationships.

In particular embodiments the social networking system may create an edge between a user node and a concept node in social graph . As an example and not by way of limitation a user viewing the webpages such as for example by using a web browser or a special purpose application hosted by the user s client device may indicate that he likes the concept represented by the concept node by selecting Like icon such as for example by clicking on the icon which may cause client device to transmit to the social networking system a message indicating the user s liking of the sports bar associated with the webpage . In response to the message the social networking system may create an edge between the user and the concept node as illustrated by the like edge between the user node of user B and the concept node of sports bar Old Pro in . In particular embodiments the social networking system may store the edge in one or more of data stores . Although this disclosure describes forming edges in a particular manner this disclosure contemplates forming edges in any suitable manner. As an example and not by way of limitation rather than visiting webpage and clicking an icon a user may use a mobile application or another suitable application that is operable to form an edge between the user s user node and a concept node. As another example and not by way of limitation an edge may be automatically formed by the social networking system in response to particular user actions. For example if a first user uploads a picture watches a movie or listens to a song an edge may be formed between the user node corresponding to the first user and the concept nodes corresponding to those concepts. Moreover although this disclosure describes particular types of edges this disclosure contemplates any suitable types of edges including but not limited to those representing any characterization by the user of the concept or vice versa any indication of a state of a relationship or association between the user and the concept any information regarding an interaction between the user and the concept or any other representation of information related to both the user and the concept.

Social graph may comprise other types of edges between a user node and a concept node. In particular embodiments an edge between a user node and a concept node may represent a particular action or activity performed by a user of the user node toward a concept of the concept node. As an example and not by way of limitation in addition to a user user B liking a sports bar Old Pro a user user B may check in to a place Old Pro as illustrated in . The webpage corresponding to a concept node may include for example a selectable check in icon or a selectable add to favorites icon . Similarly by clicking on these icons the social networking system may create a favorite edge or a check in edge as illustrated in in response to a user s action corresponding to a respective action. As another example and not by way of limitation a user user C may listen to a particular song Imagine using a particular application SPOTIFY which is an online music application . In this case the social networking system may create a listened edge and a used edge as illustrated in between the user nodes corresponding to the user and the concept nodes corresponding to the song and application to indicate that the user listened to the song and used the application. Moreover the social networking system may create a played edge again as illustrated in between the concept nodes corresponding to the song and the application to indicate that the particular song was played by the particular application. Although this disclosure describes edges with particular attributes connecting user nodes and concept nodes this disclosure contemplates edges with any suitable attributes connecting user nodes and concept nodes. Moreover although this disclosure describes edges between a user node and a concept node representing a single relationship this disclosure contemplates edges between a user node and a concept node representing one or more relationships. As an example and not by way of limitation an edge may represent both that a user likes and has used at a particular concept. Alternatively a separate edge could be generated to represent each type of relationship or multiples of a single relationship between a user node and a concept node as illustrated in between the user node for user E and the concept node for SPOTIFY. 

In particular embodiments a concept node may represent a third party webpage hosted by third party website . The third party webpage may include a selectable icon e.g. implemented in JavaScript AJAX or PHP codes representing an action or activity. As an example and not by way of limitation a third party webpage for the Old Pro about The Old Pro Sports Bar in Palo Alto Calif. may include a selectable icon such as like or check in like the webpage illustrated in or may include selectable icons such as for example eat recommend or any other suitable action or activity. A user viewing the third party webpage may perform an action by selecting one of the icons e.g. eat causing client device to transmit to the social networking system a message indicating the user s action e.g. eating at Old Pro . If a concept node corresponding to the third party webpage exists in social graph in response to the message the social networking system may create an edge e.g. an eat edge between a user node corresponding to the user and the concept node corresponding to the third party webpage and store the edge in one or more of data store . If a concept node corresponding to the third party webpage does not exist in social graph in response to the message the social networking system may create a concept node corresponding to the third party webpage create an edge e.g. an eat edge between the newly created concept node and a user node corresponding to the user and store the concept node and the edge in one or more of data stores .

In particular embodiments a particular concept may correspond to one or more concept nodes . A social graph may comprise a plurality of concept nodes corresponding to a same concept e.g. a same real world entity . That is each concept node of the several concept nodes may correspond to a different webpage that is about the same concept. As an example and not by way of limitation a popular celebrity or restaurant may have several webpages such as for example a fan page an official page or a review page authored by various users.

In particular embodiments social graph may be used to determine which concepts corresponding to particular concept nodes are relevant to particular users corresponding to particular user nodes . Concept nodes that are connected to a particular user node i.e. directly by an edge may be considered relevant to the user node. As an example and not by way of limitation a concept node connected by an edge to a first user node may be considered relevant to the first user node. As used herein when referencing a social graph the term connected means a path exists within the social graph between two nodes wherein the path may comprise one or more edges and zero or more intermediary nodes. The term directly connected means the path between two nodes in the social graph comprises a single edge. Similarly the term indirectly connected means the path between two nodes in the social graph comprises two or more edges and one or more intermediary nodes. In particular embodiments concept nodes that are not connected to a particular user node but instead are indirectly connected via one or more intervening nodes may also be considered relevant to the user node. As an example and not by way of limitation a concept node indirectly connected to second user node via a path comprising one or more intervening nodes may be considered relevant to a first user node if the second user node is an Nth degree friend of the first user node. Furthermore in particular embodiments the closer a second user node is to the first user node the more relevant the concept nodes connected to the second node may be considered to the first user node. That is the fewer edges separating the first user node from a particular concept node the more relevant that concept node may be considered to the first user node. As an example and not by way of limitation as illustrated in the concept node Old Pro is connected to the user node for User B and thus the concept Old Pro may be considered relevant to User B. As another example and not by way of limitation the concept node SPOTIFY is indirectly connected to the user node for User B via the intermediated user node for User C and thus the concept SPOTIFY may be considered relevant to User B but because the concept node is not directly connected to the user node for User B it may be considered less relevant than a concept node that is directly connected to the user node for User B. As yet another example and not by way of limitation the concept node for Online Poker which is an online multiplayer game is not connected to the user node for User B by any pathway in social graph and thus the concept Online Poker may not be considered relevant to User B. Although this disclosure describes determining whether particular concept nodes are relevant to particular user nodes in a particular manner this disclosure contemplates determining whether any suitable concept nodes are relevant to any suitable user nodes in any suitable manner.

In particular embodiments the social networking system may identify a set of concept nodes associated with an application app that is accessible by users associated with the online social network and reference one or more of those concept nodes when generating an advertisement for the application. Thus an advertisement for a particular application can be customized to a particular user by referencing the user s social network and by referencing content related to the application that the user s friends have accessed. An application accessible by users associated with the online social network may include for example a website an online service an app for accessing creating or managing content an app for playing online games e.g. CHESSMASTER FOR BLACKBERRY etc. an app for accessing creating or managing content from a mobile client system e.g. FACEBOOK FOR IPHONE etc. an app for conducting search queries e.g. GOOGLE MOBILE app an app for handling email or other digital messaging systems a web browser app an app for viewing advertisements another suitable app or an app with any suitable combination of these capabilities. In particular embodiments an application may be associated with particular concept nodes. As an example and not by way of limitation an application may be able to access create or manage particular types of content such as audio files video files pictures graphics text or any combination thereof. Each piece of content that is accessed created or managed by an application may have a corresponding concept node. Thus particular content may be associated with particular applications in the social graph. As an example and not by way of limitation a video player application may correspond to a first concept node and one or more videos that can be accessed and viewed using the video player may correspond to one or more second concept nodes respectively. As another example and not by way of limitation a camera application may correspond to a first concept node and one or more photographs created with the camera application may correspond to one or more second concept nodes. Although this disclosure describes particular applications this disclosure contemplates any suitable applications. Moreover although this disclosure describes particular types of content this disclosure contemplates any suitable types of content.

In particular embodiments the social networking system may then analyze the concept nodes in the social graph to identify one or more concept nodes associated with an application that are connected to one or more user nodes corresponding to friends of a first user. In other words in order to make a socially relevant advertisement for a particular application directed at a particular user the social networking system may identify a concept that is connected to both the application and the friends of the first user. In particular embodiments the social networking system may first identify a particular concept node that is associated with a particular application. The social networking system may also analyze the number and type of edges connected to each concept node. As an example and not by way of limitation the social networking system may identify the number of friend edges used edges check in edges like edges or other suitable types of edges connected to a particular concept node. The social networking system may then identify a first set of edges comprising all the edges connected to the concept node. Out of this first set of edges the social networking system may then identify a second set of edges comprising the edges that are connected to user nodes corresponding to friends of a first user. The identify edges may then be references when subsequently selecting concept nodes to be referenced in advertisements directed to the first user. As an example and not by way of limitation referencing if the social networking system were generating an advertisement for the SPOTIFY application directed at User B the social networking system may first identify friends of User B who have used the application. In this case User C has used the SPOTIFY application. The social networking system may then identify any concepts associated with the application that are also connected to User C. In this case the song Imagine is associated with the SPOTIFY application i.e. it has been played by the app and is connected to User C i.e. he has listened to the song . The social networking system may then select the Imagine concept and generate an advertisement direct to User B for the SPOTIFY application that includes information that User C has listened to the song Imagine on SPOTIFY. This advertisement should be socially relevant to User B since User C is a first degree friend of User B. Although this disclosure describes identifying particular concept nodes in a particular manner this disclosure contemplates identifying any suitable concept any suitable manner.

In particular embodiments the social networking system may select a concept node based on the social relevancy of the concept node to a first user. A concept node that is directly connected to a first user or connected to friends of the first user may be considered socially relevant to the first user. A concept node that is connected to a more distant friend of the first user e.g. 2nd degree friends 3rd degree friends and so on may be considered less socially relevant to the first user. Finally a concept node that is not connected to the first user node by any path in the social graph may be considered minimally or not socially relevant to the first user. In particular embodiments the social networking system may identify a set of edges between a concept node and user nodes corresponding to friends of a first user node and then select the concept node based on the set of edges. Concept nodes that are directly connected to the user nodes corresponding to friends of the first user may be considered more relevant than concept nodes that are not connected to user nodes corresponding to friend of the first user. As an example and not by way of limitation referencing if User C is using the application SPOTIFY the concept node for SPOTIFY may be considered socially relevant to User B because the user node for User B is connected to the user node for User C. As another example and not by way of limitation when generating an advertisement directed to User B the social networking system may determine that the concept nodes for the app SPOTIFY and the song Imagine may be considered socially relevant to User B because these are connected by used and listened edges respectively to User C who is a friend of User B. Similarly the concept nodes for SPOTIFY and the song Imagine may be considered less socially relevant to User A because the concept nodes corresponding to SPOTIFY and Imagine are three degrees of separation from the user node for User A. As another example and not by way of limitation the concept node for the app Online Poker may be considered minimally or not socially relevant to User B because the concept node corresponding to that app is not connected to User B by any path in the social graph . As yet another example and not by way of limitation referencing if the social networking system is generating an advertisement directed to User A for the app All About Recipes the content node for the recipe Chicken Parmesan may be considered socially relevant to User A. In this case the social networking system may select the Chicken Parmesan concept node to be referenced in the advertisement about the All About Recipes app it generates for User A because the Chicken Parmesan concept node is considered socially relevant to User A. Although this disclosure describes selecting concept nodes based on social relevancy in a particular manner this disclosure contemplates selecting concept nodes based on social relevancy in any suitable manner.

In particular embodiments the social networking system may select a concept node based information associated with the edges between the concept node and one or more user nodes corresponding to friends of a first user. The information associated with the edges may be the number of edges the type of edge or the attributes of the edges that connect a user node to a concept node. A concept node connected by edges to more friends of the first user i.e. a concept node with more edges connecting the concept node to user nodes corresponding to friends of the first user may be considered more relevant than concept nodes with fewer edges. As an example and not by way of limitation if a first concept node has 5 edges connecting it to user nodes corresponding to friends of a first user and a second concept node has 10 edges connecting it to user nodes corresponding to friends of the first user then the second concept node may be considered more relevant to the first user because more of the first user s friends are connected to it by edges. In this case the second concept node may be selected by the social networking system because it is more socially relevant to the first user. In particular embodiments the social networking system may select the concept node with the most edge connections from a set of concept nodes. That is the social networking system may determine that the concept node that is most socially relevant to a first user is the concept node with the most edges connecting is to user nodes such as the user nodes corresponding to friends of the first user. As an example and not by way of limitation the social networking may identify a first concept node from a first set of concept nodes where the first concept node has the most edges connecting it to one of more second user nodes. The second user nodes may be user nodes that are within a threshold degree of separation of a first user node. Thus the social networking system identifies the concept node that the most of the first user s friends are connected to. If two concept nodes both have the same number of edges connecting to them then the social networking system may select both concept nodes or may look at other factors such as for example the type of edges or the attributes of the edges to determine which concept node to select. In particular embodiments the social networking system may select a concept node based on the types of edges connecting the concept node to a user s friends. Edges of particular types may be considered more relevant than other types of edges. As an example and not by way of limitation for a concept node associated with the concept SPOTIFY the social networking system may consider like edges to be more relevant than used edges. Similarly while counting a number of edges between a concept node and user nodes that are friends of a first user the social networking system may determine that two like edges is more relevant than three used edges. In particular embodiments the social networking system may only select concept nodes that are connected to user nodes that are within a threshold degree of separation of a first user node in the social graph . As an example and not by way of limitation when generating an advertisement directed towards User A if the threshold degree of separation is one degree the social networking system may determine that the concept node corresponding to the location Macy s is relevant because it is connected to user nodes of first degree friends of User A while the concept node corresponding to the application SPOTIFY may not be considered relevant because it is indirectly connected to User A by a second degree friend User C. Although this disclosure describes selecting concept nodes based on information associated with the edges in a particular manner this disclosure contemplates selecting concept nodes based on information associated with the edges in any suitable manner.

In particular embodiments the social networking system may select a concept node based on advertising sponsorship associated with the concept node. An advertiser such as for example the owner or propriety of a concept corresponding to a concept node may sponsor a particular concept node such that the concept node is considered more socially relevant by the social networking system. If a first concept node and a second concept node are both considered equally socially relevant to a first user whichever node has advertising sponsorship may be given an increased social relevance thus allowing it to be selected. As an example and not by way of limitation if the owner of the SPOTIFY application wants to promote the song Imagine this sponsorship may be considered as a factor when selecting the concept node to be references in an advertisement. Although this disclosure describes selecting a concept node based on advertising sponsorship in a particular manner this disclosure contemplates selecting a concept node based on advertising sponsorship in any suitable manner.

In particular embodiments the social networking system may select a concept node based on time stamps associated with the edges connected to the concept node. Edges that were generated more recently may be considered more socially relevant when selecting concept nodes than edges that were generated in the past. As an example and not by way of limitation the social networking system may determine that edges created in the past week are the most socially relevant while edges created in the past month are less socially relevant and edges created more than a month ago are not considered socially relevant. Although this disclosure describes selecting a concept node based on time stamps associated with edges in a particular manner this disclosure contemplates selecting a concept node based on time stamps associated with edges in any suitable manner.

In particular embodiments the social networking system may select a concept node based on traffic data of the concept node s corresponding webpage. As an example and not by way of limitation the social networking system may detect a visit to a concept node s corresponding webpage such as the webpages illustrated in when the social networking system receives a request to serve the corresponding webpage. As an example and not by way of limitation the social networking system may detect a visit to a concept node s corresponding webpage when the social networking system receives a request to serve content of a selectable icon incorporated in the concept node s corresponding webpage. The social networking system may accumulate and store in one or more of data stores a number of visits to a webpage corresponding to a concept node. The social networking system may access one or more of data stores for a number of visits for each of the second concept nodes. In particular embodiments the more that a webpage corresponding to a concept node has been visited the more socially relevant the concept will be considered. As an example and not by way of limitation a first concept node corresponding to a first webpage that has been visited for over 10 000 times may be considered more socially relevant than a second concept node corresponding to a second webpage that has only been visited 5 000 times. In particular embodiments the social networking system may select a concept node based on traffic from friends of a user. As an example and not by way of limitation the social networking system may detect a visit to a concept node s corresponding webpage by one or more second users corresponding to one or more second user nodes respectively that are connected to a first user node. In particular embodiments the more that a webpage corresponding to a concept node has been visited by friends of a user the more socially relevant the concept will be considered to the user. Although this disclosure describes selecting a concept node based on traffic data in a particular manner this disclosure contemplates selecting a concept node based on traffic data in any suitable manner.

In particular embodiments the social networking system may select a concept node based on the edges connected to the concept node by determining a value for one or more concept nodes based on edges connected to the concept node and then selecting one or more concept nodes based on the determined values of the concept nodes. The social networking system may first identify the edges connecting a particular concept node to user nodes corresponding to friends of a first user and then determine a value for the concept node based on the number and types of identified edges connected to the concept node. A particular concept node may be connected to one or more other nodes by one or more edges and each edge may have particular attributes. The social networking system may then select particular concept nodes based on the determined values and then the selected concept nodes may be references in any advertisements generated by the social networking system. The determined value for a concept node may be based on a variety of factors such as for example the number of edges connected to the concept node the type of edges connected to the concept node whether the concept node and the first user are connected by an edge whether the concept node and user nodes of friends of the first user or user nodes within a threshold degree of separation of the first user are connected by edges when the edges connected to the concept node were created other suitable information or any combination of such information. The determined value may be any suitable value on any suitable scale. For illustration purposes this disclosure discusses values in generic unit terms e.g. 1.0 units 2.4 units etc. this disclosure contemplates values with any suitable type of units. Moreover for illustration purposes this disclosure discusses values for concept nodes such that larger values are considered more relevant such as for example when selecting concept nodes for use in an advertisement. In particular embodiments the social networking may determine a value for a concept node based on the number of edges connected to the concept node. Concept nodes may be connected to other nodes by one or more edges and the number of edges connected to a concept node may be considered when determining a value for the concept node. That is the social networking system may determine a value for a concept node based on a level of engagement by users as measured by a number of edges i.e. actions between the concept node and user nodes. Concept nodes with more edges may be given a greater value. As an example and not by way of limitation a concept node with 50 edges may be given a value of 5.0 units while a concept node with 30 edges may be given a value of 2.4 units. As another example and not by way of limitation the social networking system may assign a score of 1.0 units to a concept node if the concept node has more than 100 edges connecting to user nodes a score of 0.7 units if the concept node has more than 50 edges connecting to user nodes or a score of 0.5 units if the concept node has 50 edges or less connecting to user nodes. In particular embodiments the social networking system may determine a value for a concept node based on the attributes of the edges connected to the concept node. As discussed above edges may have various attributes and edges with particular attributes may be given more value than other types of edges. The social networking system may identify the edges connected to a particular concept node and the attributes of those edges and then determine a value based on the attributes of the edges. As an example and not by way of limitation for a concept node associated with the app SPOTIFY the social networking system may give more weighting to edges of like than edges of used. While counting a number of edges between a concept node and user nodes the social networking system may determine a value for a like edge as 1.5 units while determining a value for a used edge as 0.5 units. Although this disclosure describes determine values for a concept node based on edge information in a particular manner this disclosure contemplates determining values for a concept nodes based on edge information in any suitable manner. Although this disclosure describes determining values for particular concept nodes this disclosure contemplates determining values for any suitable concept node. Moreover although this disclosure describes determining particular values for concept nodes this disclosure contemplates determining any suitable values for concept nodes. Furthermore although this disclosure describes determining a value for a concept node based on edge connections in a particular manner this disclosure contemplates determining a value for a concept node based on edge connections in any suitable manner.

In particular embodiments the social networking system may determine a value for a concept node based on one or more factors as described above including social graph information user information concept information etc. These determined values may be cumulative with each other. The determined value for each factor may be additive multiplicative etc. with determined values for other factors. As an example and not by way of limitation a social networking system may give a value of 1.0 to a concept node having 10 or more edges connected to it and may give a value of 0.8 to a concept node corresponding to concept that has recently been accessed by a friend of the user. Thus a concept node that has been recently accessed and has 10 or more edges may be given a value of 1.8. In particular embodiments values determined based on particular factors may be weighted differently. Using the previous example a concept node with 10 or more edges that has recently been accessed may be given a value of a 1.0 b 0.8 where a and b are weightings that may be assigned to the particular factors. Although this disclosure describes determining discrete values for concept nodes based on particular factors this disclosure contemplates determining non discrete values for concept node based on a variety of factors.

In particular embodiments the social networking system may generate an advertisement for an application comprising information representing one or more concepts corresponding to one or more concept nodes that have been selected by the social networking system. The advertisement may be a structured document. The advertisement may include a title an image ad copy a display URL a destination URL or any combination thereof. In particular embodiments the advertisement may include information associated with the content corresponding to the selected concept nodes. Information of particular concept nodes presented to the first user may comprise one or more images and websites associated with the particular concept nodes. As an example and not by way of limitation the advertisement for the SPOTIFY application includes ad copy describing the song Only Wanna Be With You which is content associated with the app. As another example and not by way of limitation the advertisement for the All About Recipes application includes ad copy describing the recipe Chicken Parmesan which is content associated with the app. In particular embodiments the advertisement may be based on user information corresponding to one or more user nodes that are connected to the selected concept nodes. As an example and not by way of limitation the advertisement directed towards a first user may comprise user profile pictures and names of the first user s social contacts i.e. user nodes within a threshold degree of separation whose corresponding user nodes having one or more edges connected to one or more of the concept nodes. It may also include how many times those social contacts have accessed the selected concept node when they accessed it how they are connected to the concept node i.e. via a like edge a used edge etc. or other suitable information associated with the user. In particular embodiments the social networking system may transmit to the first user the generated advertisement or information associated with the advertisement. The advertisement may be displayed directly or indirectly. The advertisement may be transmitted as an email as an image as a webpage as a portion of a webpage or in another suitable manner. Although this disclosure describes generating advertisements in a particular manner this disclosure contemplates generating advertisements in any suitable manner.

This disclosure contemplates any suitable number of computer systems . This disclosure contemplates computer system taking any suitable physical form. As example and not by way of limitation computer system may be an embedded computer system a system on chip SOC a single board computer system SBC such as for example a computer on module COM or system on module SOM a desktop computer system a laptop or notebook computer system an interactive kiosk a mainframe a mesh of computer systems a mobile telephone a personal digital assistant PDA a server a tablet computer system or a combination of two or more of these. Where appropriate computer system may include one or more computer systems be unitary or distributed span multiple locations span multiple machines span multiple data centers or reside in a cloud which may include one or more cloud components in one or more networks. Where appropriate one or more computer systems may perform without substantial spatial or temporal limitation one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein. As an example and not by way of limitation one or more computer systems may perform in real time or in batch mode one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein. One or more computer systems may perform at different times or at different locations one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein where appropriate.

In particular embodiments computer system includes a processor memory storage an input output I O interface a communication interface and a bus . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular computer system having a particular number of particular components in a particular arrangement this disclosure contemplates any suitable computer system having any suitable number of any suitable components in any suitable arrangement.

In particular embodiments processor includes hardware for executing instructions such as those making up a computer program. As an example and not by way of limitation to execute instructions processor may retrieve or fetch the instructions from an internal register an internal cache memory or storage decode and execute them and then write one or more results to an internal register an internal cache memory or storage . In particular embodiments processor may include one or more internal caches for data instructions or addresses. This disclosure contemplates processor including any suitable number of any suitable internal caches where appropriate. As an example and not by way of limitation processor may include one or more instruction caches one or more data caches and one or more translation lookaside buffers TLBs . Instructions in the instruction caches may be copies of instructions in memory or storage and the instruction caches may speed up retrieval of those instructions by processor . Data in the data caches may be copies of data in memory or storage for instructions executing at processor to operate on the results of previous instructions executed at processor for access by subsequent instructions executing at processor or for writing to memory or storage or other suitable data. The data caches may speed up read or write operations by processor . The TLBs may speed up virtual address translation for processor . In particular embodiments processor may include one or more internal registers for data instructions or addresses. This disclosure contemplates processor including any suitable number of any suitable internal registers where appropriate. Where appropriate processor may include one or more arithmetic logic units ALUs be a multi core processor or include one or more processors . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular processor this disclosure contemplates any suitable processor.

In particular embodiments memory includes main memory for storing instructions for processor to execute or data for processor to operate on. As an example and not by way of limitation computer system may load instructions from storage or another source such as for example another computer system to memory . Processor may then load the instructions from memory to an internal register or internal cache. To execute the instructions processor may retrieve the instructions from the internal register or internal cache and decode them. During or after execution of the instructions processor may write one or more results which may be intermediate or final results to the internal register or internal cache. Processor may then write one or more of those results to memory . In particular embodiments processor executes only instructions in one or more internal registers or internal caches or in memory as opposed to storage or elsewhere and operates only on data in one or more internal registers or internal caches or in memory as opposed to storage or elsewhere . One or more memory buses which may each include an address bus and a data bus may couple processor to memory . Bus may include one or more memory buses as described below. In particular embodiments one or more memory management units MMUs reside between processor and memory and facilitate accesses to memory requested by processor . In particular embodiments memory includes random access memory RAM . This RAM may be volatile memory where appropriate Where appropriate this RAM may be dynamic RAM DRAM or static RAM SRAM . Moreover where appropriate this RAM may be single ported or multi ported RAM. This disclosure contemplates any suitable RAM. Memory may include one or more memories where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular memory this disclosure contemplates any suitable memory.

In particular embodiments storage includes mass storage for data or instructions. As an example and not by way of limitation storage may include a hard disk drive HDD a floppy disk drive flash memory an optical disc a magneto optical disc magnetic tape or a Universal Serial Bus USB drive or a combination of two or more of these. Storage may include removable or non removable or fixed media where appropriate. Storage may be internal or external to computer system where appropriate. In particular embodiments storage is non volatile solid state memory. In particular embodiments storage includes read only memory ROM . Where appropriate this ROM may be mask programmed ROM programmable ROM PROM erasable PROM EPROM electrically erasable PROM EEPROM electrically alterable ROM EAROM or flash memory or a combination of two or more of these. This disclosure contemplates mass storage taking any suitable physical form. Storage may include one or more storage control units facilitating communication between processor and storage where appropriate. Where appropriate storage may include one or more storages . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular storage this disclosure contemplates any suitable storage.

In particular embodiments I O interface includes hardware software or both providing one or more interfaces for communication between computer system and one or more I O devices. Computer system may include one or more of these I O devices where appropriate. One or more of these I O devices may enable communication between a person and computer system . As an example and not by way of limitation an I O device may include a keyboard keypad microphone monitor mouse printer scanner speaker still camera stylus tablet touch screen trackball video camera another suitable I O device or a combination of two or more of these. An I O device may include one or more sensors. This disclosure contemplates any suitable I O devices and any suitable I O interfaces for them. Where appropriate I O interface may include one or more device or software drivers enabling processor to drive one or more of these I O devices. I O interface may include one or more I O interfaces where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular I O interface this disclosure contemplates any suitable I O interface.

In particular embodiments communication interface includes hardware software or both providing one or more interfaces for communication such as for example packet based communication between computer system and one or more other computer systems or one or more networks. As an example and not by way of limitation communication interface may include a network interface controller NIC or network adapter for communicating with an Ethernet or other wire based network or a wireless NIC WNIC or wireless adapter for communicating with a wireless network such as a WI FI network. This disclosure contemplates any suitable network and any suitable communication interface for it. As an example and not by way of limitation computer system may communicate with an ad hoc network a personal area network PAN a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN a metropolitan area network MAN or one or more portions of the Internet or a combination of two or more of these. One or more portions of one or more of these networks may be wired or wireless. As an example computer system may communicate with a wireless PAN WPAN such as for example a BLUETOOTH WPAN a WI FI network a WI MAX network a cellular telephone network such as for example a Global System for Mobile Communications GSM network or other suitable wireless network or a combination of two or more of these. Computer system may include any suitable communication interface for any of these networks where appropriate. Communication interface may include one or more communication interfaces where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular communication interface this disclosure contemplates any suitable communication interface.

In particular embodiments bus includes hardware software or both coupling components of computer system to each other. As an example and not by way of limitation bus may include an Accelerated Graphics Port AGP or other graphics bus an Enhanced Industry Standard Architecture EISA bus a front side bus FSB a HYPERTRANSPORT HT interconnect an Industry Standard Architecture ISA bus an INFINIBAND interconnect a low pin count LPC bus a memory bus a Micro Channel Architecture MCA bus a Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI bus a PCI Express PCIe bus a serial advanced technology attachment SATA bus a Video Electronics Standards Association local VLB bus or another suitable bus or a combination of two or more of these. Bus may include one or more buses where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular bus this disclosure contemplates any suitable bus or interconnect.

Herein reference to a computer readable non transitory storage medium may include a semiconductor based or other integrated circuit IC such as for example a field programmable gate array FPGA or an application specific IC ASIC a hard disk drive HDD a hybrid hard drive HHD an optical disc an optical disc drive ODD a magneto optical disc a magneto optical drive a floppy disk a floppy disk drive FDD magnetic tape a holographic storage medium a solid state drive SSD a RAM drive a SECURE DIGITAL card a SECURE DIGITAL drive another suitable computer readable non transitory storage medium or a suitable combination of these where appropriate. A computer readable non transitory storage medium may be volatile non volatile or a combination of volatile and non volatile where appropriate.

This disclosure contemplates one or more computer readable storage media implementing any suitable storage. In particular embodiments a computer readable storage medium implements one or more portions of processor such as for example one or more internal registers or caches one or more portions of memory one or more portions of storage or a combination of these where appropriate. In particular embodiments a computer readable storage medium implements RAM or ROM. In particular embodiments a computer readable storage medium implements volatile or persistent memory. In particular embodiments one or more computer readable storage media embody software. Herein reference to software may encompass one or more applications bytecode one or more computer programs one or more executables one or more instructions logic machine code one or more scripts or source code and vice versa where appropriate. In particular embodiments software includes one or more application programming interfaces APIs . This disclosure contemplates any suitable software written or otherwise expressed in any suitable programming language or combination of programming languages. In particular embodiments software is expressed as source code or object code. In particular embodiments software is expressed in a higher level programming language such as for example C Perl or a suitable extension thereof. In particular embodiments software is expressed in a lower level programming language such as assembly language or machine code . In particular embodiments software is expressed in JAVA. In particular embodiments software is expressed in Hyper Text Markup Language HTML Extensible Markup Language XML or other suitable markup language.

Links couple servers and clients to network or to each other. This disclosure contemplates any suitable links . As an example and not by way of limitation one or more links each include one or more wireline such as for example Digital Subscriber Line DSL or Data Over Cable Service Interface Specification DOCSIS wireless such as for example Wi Fi or Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WiMAX or optical such as for example Synchronous Optical Network SONET or Synchronous Digital Hierarchy SDH links . In particular embodiments one or more links each includes an intranet an extranet a VPN a LAN a WLAN a WAN a MAN a communications network a satellite network a portion of the Internet or another link or a combination of two or more such links . Links need not necessarily be the same throughout network environment . One or more first links may differ in one or more respects from one or more second links .

This disclosure contemplates any suitable servers . As an example and not by way of limitation one or more servers may each include one or more advertising servers applications servers catalog servers communications servers database servers exchange servers fax servers file servers game servers home servers mail servers message servers news servers name or DNS servers print servers proxy servers sound servers standalone servers web servers or web feed servers. In particular embodiments a server includes hardware software or both for providing the functionality of server . As an example and not by way of limitation a server that operates as a web server may be capable of hosting websites containing web pages or elements of web pages and include appropriate hardware software or both for doing so. In particular embodiments a web server may host HTML or other suitable files or dynamically create or constitute files for web pages on request. In response to a Hyper Text Transfer Protocol HTTP or other request from a client the web server may communicate one or more such files to client . As another example a server that operates as a mail server may be capable of providing e mail services to one or more clients . As another example a server that operates as a database server may be capable of providing an interface for interacting with one or more data stores such as for example data stores described below . Where appropriate a server may include one or more servers be unitary or distributed span multiple locations span multiple machines span multiple datacenters or reside in a cloud which may include one or more cloud components in one or more networks.

In particular embodiments one or more links may couple a server to one or more data stores . A data store may store any suitable information and the contents of a data store may be organized in any suitable manner. As an example and not by way or limitation the contents of a data store may be stored as a dimensional flat hierarchical network object oriented relational XML or other suitable database or a combination or two or more of these. A data store or a server coupled to it may include a database management system or other hardware or software for managing the contents of data store . The database management system may perform read and write operations delete or erase data perform data deduplication query or search the contents of data store or provide other access to data store .

In particular embodiments one or more servers may each include one or more search engines . A search engine may include hardware software or both for providing the functionality of search engine . As an example and not by way of limitation a search engine may implement one or more search algorithms to identify network resources in response to search queries received at search engine one or more ranking algorithms to rank identified network resources or one or more summarization algorithms to summarize identified network resources. In particular embodiments a ranking algorithm implemented by a search engine may use a machine learned ranking formula which the ranking algorithm may obtain automatically from a set of training data constructed from pairs of search queries and selected Uniform Resource Locators URLs where appropriate.

In particular embodiments one or more servers may each include one or more data monitors collectors . A data monitor collection may include hardware software or both for providing the functionality of data collector collector . As an example and not by way of limitation a data monitor collector at a server may monitor and collect network traffic data at server and store the network traffic data in one or more data stores . In particular embodiments server or another device may extract pairs of search queries and selected URLs from the network traffic data where appropriate.

This disclosure contemplates any suitable clients . A client may enable a user at client to access or otherwise communicate with network servers or other clients . As an example and not by way of limitation a client may have a web browser such as MICROSOFT INTERNET EXPLORER or MOZILLA FIREFOX and may have one or more add ons plug ins or other extensions such as GOOGLE TOOLBAR or YAHOO TOOLBAR. A client may be an electronic device including hardware software or both for providing the functionality of client . As an example and not by way of limitation a client may where appropriate be an embedded computer system an SOC an SBC such as for example a COM or SOM a desktop computer system a laptop or notebook computer system an interactive kiosk a mainframe a mesh of computer systems a mobile telephone a PDA a netbook computer system a server a tablet computer system or a combination of two or more of these. Where appropriate a client may include one or more clients be unitary or distributed span multiple locations span multiple machines span multiple datacenters or reside in a cloud which may include one or more cloud components in one or more networks.

Herein or is inclusive and not exclusive unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Therefore herein A or B means A B or both unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Moreover and is both joint and several unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Therefore herein A and B means A and B jointly or severally unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Furthermore a an or the is intended to mean one or more unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Therefore herein an A or the A means one or more A unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context.

This disclosure encompasses all changes substitutions variations alterations and modifications to the example embodiments herein that a person having ordinary skill in the art would comprehend. Similarly where appropriate the appended claims encompass all changes substitutions variations alterations and modifications to the example embodiments herein that a person having ordinary skill in the art would comprehend. Moreover this disclosure encompasses any suitable combination of one or more features from any example embodiment with one or more features of any other example embodiment herein that a person having ordinary skill in the art would comprehend. Furthermore reference in the appended claims to an apparatus or system or a component of an apparatus or system being adapted to arranged to capable of configured to enabled to operable to or operative to perform a particular function encompasses that apparatus system component whether or not it or that particular function is activated turned on or unlocked as long as that apparatus system or component is so adapted arranged capable configured enabled operable or operative.

