---

title: Multi-band laser architecture
abstract: Techniques and architecture are disclosed for providing a laser system. In one specific example embodiment, the system includes a thulium-doped fiber laser coupled by silica glass fiber to a remote optical converter (ROC) including a Ho:YAG laser and, optionally, an optical parametric oscillator (OPO) utilizing in germanium phosphide (ZnGeP; ZGP) or orientation-patterned gallium arsenide (OPGaAs). The fiber laser may emit a low-peak-power, continuous wave pump signal that pumps the Ho:YAG laser, which in turn emits a higher-peak-power, pulsed signal. When included, the OPO can be used to convert the resultant, pulsed signal to a longer wavelength (e.g., about 2-5 μm, or greater). In some cases, distributed architecture and reduced weight/bulk may be realized while eliminating the need to actively cool the ROC for operation, for example, over a broad temperature range (e.g., −55-125° C.). Also, methods of preparing high-peak-power, pulsed signals using such systems are disclosed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09407059&OS=09407059&RS=09407059
owner: BAE Systems Information and Electronic Systems Integration Inc.
number: 09407059
owner_city: Nashua
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150224
---
This application is a divisional of U.S. application Ser. No. 13 441 435 tiled Apr. 6 2012 and claims benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 481 097 filed Apr. 29 2011. Each patent and patent application cited herein is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The invention was made with United States Government support under contract N00173 05 C 6020 awarded by the Department of the Navy. The United States Government has certain rights in this invention.

The invention relates to laser systems and more particularly to distributed architecture laser systems.

Laser system design involves a number of non trivial challenges and Systems incorporating distributed architecture components have faced particular complications such as those with respect to achieving reduced weight bulk power consumption and cost while optimizing device performance. Continued device sealing will tend to exacerbate such problems 

One example embodiment of the present invention provides a device including a first laser configured to emit a first signal a reroute optical converter comprising a second laser wherein the remote optical converter is configured to convert the first signal to a second signal of different peak power and or different wavelength than the first signal and an optical fiber operatively coupling the first laser and the remote optical converter wherein the optical fiber is configured to transport the first signal from the first laser to the second laser. In some cases the remote optical converter further includes a non linear converter operatively coupled to the second laser. In some such cases the first signal comprises a continuous wave signal having a wavelength less than 2 m and a peak power less than about 200 W and the non linear converter comprises an optical parametric oscillator configured to convert the second signal to a third signal of higher peak power and having a wavelength in the range of 2 5 m or greater. In some further such cases the first signal comprises a continuous wave signal having a wavelength less than 2 m and a peak power less than about 200 W and wherein the non linear converter comprises a harmonic generator configured to convert the second signal to a third signal of lower peak power and having a wavelength in the range of about 0.7 1.9 m. In some further such cases the non linear converter composes cadmium selenide silver gallium sulfide silver gallium selenide gallium II selenide rubidium titanyl arsenate potassium titanyl arsenate potassium titanyl phosphate lithium niobate periodically poled lithium niobate periodically poled lithium tantalate or periodically poled potassium titanyl phosphate orientation patterned gallium arsenide orientation patterned gallium phosphide or zinc germanium phosphide. In some cases the first laser comprises thulium Tm doped fiber gallium arsenide GaAs iridium phosphide InP Tm doped yttrium lithium fluoride Tm YLF Tm doped yttrium aluminum perovskite Tm YAP or Tm doped yttrium aluminum garnet Tm YAG . In some cases the second laser is Q switched via an operatively coupled acousto optic electro optic switch or passive Q switch using a saturable absorbing medium. In some cases the second laser comprises a neodymium holmium erbium thulium or ytterbium doped crystal. In some cases the second laser comprises holmium Ho doped yttrium aluminum garnet Ho YAG Ho doped yttrium lithium fluoride Ho YLF Ho doped yttrium aluminum perovskite Ho YAP or Ho doped yttrium vanadate Ho YVO . In some cases the optical fiber comprises silica glass fiber phosphate glass fiber or germanate glass fiber. In some cases the first laser comprises a fiber laser and the optical fiber is fusion spliced to an output thereof. In some cases the optical fiber further comprises a lens assembly for operatively coupling the first laser and the remote optical converter. In some cases the device is configured to operate in the temperature range of about 55 125 C. in the absence of active cooling.

Another example embodiment a the present invention provides a method including the steps of producing a first signal with a first laser wherein the first signal has a wavelength of less than 2 m and a peak power less than about 200 W transporting the first signal over an optical fiber operatively coupling the first laser to a remote optical converter comprising a second laser and converting the first signal with the remote optical converter into a second signal wherein the second signal has a higher peak power and or a different wavelength than the first signal. In some cases the method further includes the step of conditioning the second signal. In some eases the first laser comprises thulium Tm doped fiber gallium arsenide GaAs indium phosphide InP Tin doped yttrium lithium fluoride Tm YLF Tm doped yttrium aluminum perovskite Tm YAP or Tm doped yttrium aluminum garnet Tm YAG . In some cases the remote optical converter further comprises a non linear converter operatively coupled to the second laser and wherein the non linear converter comprises an optical parametric oscillator or a harmonic generator. In some cases the optical fiber comprises silica glass fiber phosphate glass fiber or germanate glass fiber.

Yet another example embodiment of the present invention provides a system including a thulium doped fiber laser a remote optical converter including Q switched holmium doped yttrium aluminum garnet Ho YAG and an optical parametric oscillator comprising zinc germanium phosphide ZnGeP or orientation patterned gallium arsenide OPGaAs and a silica glass optical fiber operatively coupling the fiber laser and the remote optical converter wherein the system is configured to operate in the temperature range of about 55 125 C. in the absence of active cooling. In some cases the fiber laser is configured to emit a continuous wave signal having a wavelength less than 2 m and a peak power less than about 200 W and the remote optical converter is configured to convert the signal to a second signal of higher peak power and or different wavelength.

The features and advantages described herein are not all inclusive and in particular many additional features and advantages will be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art in view of the drawings specification and claims. Moreover it should be noted that the language used in the specification has been selected principally for readability and instructional purposes and not to limit the scope of the inventive subject matter.

These and the features of the present embodiments will be understood better by reading the following detailed description taken together with the figures herein described. The accompanying drawings are not intended to be drawn to scale. In the drawings each identical or nearly identical component that is illustrated in various figures is represented by a like numeral. For purposes of clarity net every component may be labeled in every drawing.

Techniques and architecture are disclosed for providing a laser system. In one specific example embodiment the system includes a thulium doped fiber laser coupled by silica glass fiber to a remote optical converter ROC including a Ho YAG laser and optionally an optical parametric oscillator OPO utilizing zinc germanium phosphide ZnGeP ZGP or orientation patterned gallium arsenide OPGaAs . The fiber laser may emit a low peak power continuous wave pump signal that pumps the Ho YAG laser which in turn emits a higher peak power pulsed signal. When included the OPO can be used to convert the resultant pulsed signal to a longer wavelength e.g. about 2 5 m or greater . In some cases distributed architecture and reduced weight bulk may he realized while eliminating the need to actively cool the ROC for operation for example over a broad temperature range e.g. 55 125 C. . Also methods of preparing high peak power pulsed signals using such systems are disclosed. Numerous configurations and variations will be apparent in light of this disclosure.

As will be appreciated in some laser based applications it may be desirable to separate the laser source from the delivery mechanism. For example in some cases the laser source size weight and or power dissipation properties may make it unfeasible for placement near the location where the optical beam is to be applied in a given application e.g. a laser beam director on the skin of an aircraft or on the end of a robotic arm . Waveguides made from optical glass fibers offer a means by which to remotely locate the laser source. However present day optical fibers are limited for applications in which the laser source either. 1 has high peak power pulses or 2 emits light in an extended wavelength range greater than 2 m. As such there are a number of non trivial problems associated with conventional designs techniques of coupling high peak power lasers and or lasers with extended spectral range beyond 2 m from a centralized source to remote locations pointers heads.

One example approach for wavelengths beyond 2 m involves using chalcogenide or fluoride optical glass fibers to transmit light from a centralized high peak power broad wavelength laser source e.g. emitting in the middle infrared within the 2 5 m wavelength range to a remote location pointer head. However use of such fibers can result in transmission losses and bend losses and cam require specialized end surface preparation all of which limit the practical fiber length for installation in a given platform. Furthermore use of such fibers limits the wavelength range brightness and peak power handling capability of the transmitted beam e.g. that exits the remote heads .

Another example approach involves wing fused silica e.g. amorphous silicon dioxide based glass fiber which offers low transmission loss and low bend losses but is limited to wavelengths below 2 m. Silica based fibers are easier to prepare and there are many existing tools that can cleave polish and splice fiber ends for low losses and high reliability cables. However silica based fibers have not been acceptable substitutes for chalcogenide fluoride glass fibers in these applications because although silica based fibers are useful to transport light of wavelengths up to 2 m silica based fiber losses become large at higher wavelengths. Also as with any small core fiber silica based fiber exhibits difficulty in handling high peak power which causes non linear response and damage to occur thereto. Larger core sizes can be designed but this in turn imposes limitations on fiber bend radius and limits the brightness of the laser beam transmitted through the fiber. Consequently conventional implementation of silica based fibers typically results in bulky heavy systems that suffer from high cost and poor reliability particularly in a distributed aperture application due to the inability to remotely route laser power through long silica glass fibers.

Thus and in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention techniques are disclosed for implementing a laser system in which an initial pump signal e.g. a low peak power continuous wave signal of less than 2 m produced by art initial pump laser is transported over as silica based fiber to one or more remotely located optical converters remote optical converter or ROC configured to convert the initial pump signal to is longer wavelength signal e.g. 2 5 m or greater .

In some embodiments the initial pump laser may be configured to generate emit a signal having a wavelength of less than 2 m. In accordance with an embodiment this pump signal may have a sufficiently low peak power so as to avoid damaging the silica based fiber over which it is transported to the ROC. The pump signal may be of a sufficiently high peak power to pump the ROC which may include a laser configured to provide a higher peak power pulsed laser signal and or an optionally included non linear converter. In some embodiments the initial pump laser may be configured with componentry electronics for providing electrical signaling and or powering of the ROC. In accordance with an embodiment the initial pump laser may be remotely located separated or otherwise discrete from the ROC.

In some embodiments the silica based fiber is configured to transport an initial pump signal having a wavelength of less than 2 m from the initial pump laser to a ROC without hampering interfering with the ability of the pump signal to sufficiently pump the ROC e.g. a higher peak power pulsed laser signal source and or an optionally included non linear converter .

In some embodiments one or more ROCs are configured to convert the initial pump signal e.g. a low peak power continuous wave signal of less than 2 m to a higher peak power longer wavelength e.g. in the range of about 2 20 m or greater signal and to emit that signal at a location that is remotely located separated or otherwise discrete from the initial pump signal source. In other cases a ROC may be configured to convert the initial pump signal to a lower peak power wavelength signal e.g. less than or equal to about 1.9 m and emit that signal in similar fashion. In some cases a ROC configured in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention may implement for example a high peak power pulsed laser and or an optionally included non linear converter. In some such cases the high peak power pulsed laser may be configured to receive the initial low peak power continuous wave pump signal and output a higher peak power pulsed signal of comparatively longer wavelength. In some cases an optionally included non linear converter may be configured to receive the high peak power pulsed laser signal and output a signal of comparatively longer wavelength.

In accordance with an embodiment the higher peak power longer wavelength signal generated by a ROC may be conditioned prior to exiting the ROC or otherwise downstream from the ROC to suit the demands of a given application. For example in some embodiments the laser system may include or otherwise utilize additional optics e.g. lenses and or mirrors configured to alter one or more characteristics of the signal such as but not limited to beam width focus etc. Other suitable conditioning configurations methodologies will be apparent in light of this disclosure.

As previously noted some embodiments of the present invention may be implemented to generate emit a signal having a wavelength in the range of 2 5 m by converting an initial pump signal of less than 2 m. However the claimed invention is not so limited. For example and in accordance with an embodiment techniques disclosed herein may be implemented to generate emit a signal having a wavelength that is longer than 5 m. Furthermore techniques disclosed herein may be implemented to generate emit multiple wavelengths and or pulsed high peak power signals that otherwise could not be transported readily easily over optical fiber couplings e.g. silica based fiber . Other uses implementations will depend on a given application and will be apparent in light of this disclosure.

In accordance with an embodiment of the present invention techniques described herein may be implemented for example in a distributed architecture laser system to generate emit a signal having a wavelength in the range of 2 5 m or greater while minimizing eliminating limitations and detrimental effects associated with conventional techniques designs such as but not limited to peak power handling limitations typically associated with optical glass fiber e.g. by non linear processes and or optical damage . Therefore in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention implementation of techniques described herein may provide for lower peak power transport of a signal over optical glass fiber e.g. silica based fiber and thus minimize eliminate the peak power limitations typically associated with optical glass fibers that impede conventional designs methodologies.

Devices configured in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention may comprise components including but not limited to one or more lasers silica based fiber and or lion linear converters e.g. optical parametric converter optical parametric oscillator OPO . Techniques disclosed herein may be used in numerous applications including but not limited to the described middle infrared MIR distributed architecture laser systems.

Some embodiments of the present invention may be implemented to realize reductions in weight bulk power consumption and or cost as compared to conventional devices methodologies. Also some embodiments may be used across a broad temperature range such as the MIL SPEC temperature range e.g. exterior temperatures in the range of about 54 71 C. and or interior temperatures in the range of about 55 125 C. without repairing active cooling componentry such as but not limited to thermoelectric coolers and or cryo coolers e.g. solid state components of the system may be operated in an uncooled fashion and or with cooling provided only by ambient surrounding conditions . Furthermore some embodiments of the present invention may be more reliable than conventional designs because them are fewer optics in the beam line and thus may realize an increase in the integrity of the output beam given that overall beam loss decreases as the number of optical components disposed in the beam line decreases.

As can be seen initial laser may be configured to provide a pump signal to ROC e.g. to remote laser positioned remotely downstream in accordance with an embodiment several factors may be considered in implementing a given initial laser . For example a first factor pertains to the wavelength or range of wavelengths of the pump signal to be generated emitted by initial laser . In some cases the suitability of the wavelength s of the pump signal may be dictated at least in part by the requirements and or characteristics of the downstream remote laser . For example and in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention it may be desirable to provide an initial laser configured to generate emit a pump signal that allows for 1 low loss transport of the pump signal over a fiber coupling device and or 2 efficient absorption of the pump signal by remote laser . Thus and in accordance with a specific example embodiment initial laser may be configured to generate emit a low peak power e.g. in the range or about 20 200 W continuous wave CW pump signal having a wavelength of less than 2 m e.g. less than or equal to about 0.7 0.9 m . Other suitable configurations of initial laser and or appropriate pump signal wavelength s generated emitted thereby will depend on a given application and will be apparent in light of this disclosure.

A second factor pertains to the type of laser source implemented in initial laser . In some cases the type of initial laser may be dictated at least in part by the aforementioned considerations regarding the suitable wavelength s of the pump signal. A variety of laser sources may be implemented in initial laser to generate emit an appropriate pump signal e.g. having a peak power in the range of about 20 200 W and or having a wavelength of less than 2 m . For instance and in accordance with an example embodiment initial laser may be a thulium doped fiber laser Tm FL configured to provide a pump signal using a thulium fiber oscillator which generates a low peak power. CW signal having a wavelength of less than 2 m. Other suitable fiber lasers will depend on a given application and will be apparent in light of this disclosure. For example a different fiber laser which emits a similar wavelength or range of wavelengths to that of Tm FL may be used in an alternative embodiment.

In other example embodiments initial laser may be a semiconductor diode laser configured to provide a suitable pump signal e.g. in the visible spectrum range up to 2 m . Example suitable semiconductor diode lasers include but are am limited to 1 gallium arsenide GaAs and 2 indium phosphide InP . Other suitable semiconductor diode lasers will depend on a given application and will be apparent in light of this disclosure.

In still other example embodiments initial laser may be a thulium Tm doped solid state laser configured to provide an appropriate pump signal e.g. less than 2 m . Example suitable Tm doped solid state lasers include but are not limited to 1 Tm doped yttrium lithium fluoride Tm YLF 2 Tm doped yttrium aluminum perovskite Tm YAP and 3 Tm doped yttrium aluminum garnet Tm YAG . Other suitable solid state lasers will depend on a given application and will be apparent in light of this disclosure.

Other factors which may be considered in determining the suitability of a given initial laser may include but are not limited to 1 its ease of use compatibility with existing silica glass fibers 2 its capability of transmitting the pump signal over for example fiber coupling device e.g. a silica glass fiber medium 3 its capability of sufficiently pumping energizing remote laser e.g. to produce a higher peak power pulsed signal and an optionally included non linear converter e.g. optical parametric oscillator OPO in a remote location and or 4 the specific characteristics requirements of the downstream remote laser of ROC . Other suitable configurations types of initial laser will depend on a given application and will be apparent in light of this disclosure.

As can further be seen in system may include a fiber coupling device that operatively couples initial laser with the downstream remote laser of ROC . In some cases fiber coupling device may be configured to transport for example is pump signal e.g. having a peak power in the range of about 20 200 W and or having a wavelength of less than 2 m produced by initial laser to ROC .

In some cases fiber coupling device may implement a cladding . In one specific example embodiment cladding may be silica and or have a diameter in the range of about 300 650 m e.g. less than or equal to about 480 m .

In some cases fiber coupling device may implement a coating . In one specific example embodiment coating may be single layer acrylate and or have a diameter in the range of about 400 800 m e.g. less than or equal to about 610 m . In some instances coating may effectively act as an outer cladding layer which allows light e.g. the pump signal to propagate in cladding in accordance with an embodiment.

In some cases fiber coupling device may comprise one or more optional stress rods to assist for example with achieving linearly polarized output. In one specific example embodiment stress rods may be boron doped stress applying parts SAPs .

Other suitable materials and or configurations for fiber coupling device will depend on a given application and will be apparent in light of this disclosure. For example while the specific example embodiment depicted in shows a single optical fiber the claimed invention is not so limited for instance fiber coupling device alternatively may be configured as 1 a point to point fiber 3 a series of fibers and or 4 a fiber switch e.g. which may allow implementation of multiple downstream ROCs discussed in detail below with reference to .

In some example cases in which initial laser is a fiber laser Tm doped fiber laser fiber coupling device may be for example fusion spliced to an output end of the fiber laser and coupled to the input end of remote laser . However the claimed invention is not so limited for example in an alternative embodiment a suitable lens assembly may be provided on the output end of initial laser and on the input end of remote laser and a suitably configured fiber coupling device may be operatively coupled there between. In some such cases this may provide for efficient and or repeatable removal replacement of fiber coupling device . As will be appreciated a given fiber coupling device and or lens assembly may be chosen at least in part based on the power level of the laser system. Other suitable configurations materials for fiber coupling device will depend on a given application and will be apparent in light of this disclosure.

Returning to as can further be seen a remote optical converter ROC may be coupled with initial laser at a remote location e.g. separate discrete from initial laser and the pump signal generated by initial laser may be transported via fiber coupling device to ROC . In accordance with an embodiment of the present invention ROC may be configured to convert the CW pump signal generated emitted by initial laser e.g. a CW pump signal having a peak power in the range of about 20 200 W and or having a wavelength of less than 2 m into 1 a higher peak power e.g. in the range of about 3 000 30 000 about three to six orders of magnitude higher than normal power output signal having one or more comparatively longer wavelengths e.g. in the range of about 2 20 m or greater or 2 a lower peak power e.g. in the range of less than about 20 200 W output signal having one or more comparatively shorter wavelengths e.g. less than or equal to about 0.7 1.9 m . Other possible power and or wavelength ranges of output signals that may be provided by ROC will depend on a given application and will be apparent in light of this disclosure.

As previously noted ROC also optionally may implement a non linear converter . In some such embodiments the pump signal generated by initial laser is converted by ROC to longer shorter wavelength s and is emitted for instance as generally represented by but not limited to the directional arrows depicted in 1 idler v 2 signal v and 3 residual pump v. While depicts one example embodiment in which non linear converter is positioned downstream or is otherwise discrete from remote laser the invention is not so limited for instance and in accordance with an embodiment a non linear converter may be included positioned for example inside the optical cavity of remote laser . Other configurations locations for a non linear converter when optionally included will be apparent in light of this disclosure.

In some embodiments non linear converter may be operatively coupled to remote laser via connection . As will be appreciated the type nature of connection will vary for a given application. For example in some instances in which a linear OPO is implemented as optional non linear converter an isolator e.g. polarizer rotator optional polarizer may be employed at connection . In some other instances in which a ring OPO is implemented as optional non linear convener an isolator may not be necessary and instead the signal may be directed through the air from remote laser to the non linear converter provided that the distance there between is sufficiently short. In some other instances still an optional wave plate e.g. turn etc. may be employed at connection . Other suitable configurations for connection will depend on a given application and will be apparent in light of this disclosure.

As previously noted in some embodiments non linear converter may be implemented as an optical parametric oscillator OPO or other optical parametric converter and thus ma permit ROC to generate emit longer wavelength signals e.g. as compared to the wavelength of the incident pump signal from initial laser . In other embodiments non linear converter may be implemented as a harmonic generator and thus may permit ROC to generate emit shorter wavelength signals e.g. as compared to the wavelength of the incident pump signal from initial laser .

Depending on the configuration of non linear converter when optionally implemented in ROC the output signal may range for example from very short wavelengths in the ultraviolet UV region e.g. if the non linear converter is implemented as a harmonic generator which may convert the incident laser energy from remote laser to a comparatively shorter wavelength to very long wavelengths in the far infrared FIR region e.g. if the non linear converter is implemented as an OPO which may convert the incident laser energy from remote laser to a comparatively longer wavelength in accordance with some embodiments of the present invention. Thus system may be implemented to produce a very wide range of output signals without damaging the fiber transport medium e.g. fiber coupling device .

As will he appreciated non linear converter e.g. an OPO may be implemented with a non linear medium and appropriate input and output couplers high reflectivity and partial reflectivity mirrors respectively in accordance with an embodiment. However the claimed invention is not so limited. For instance non linear converter may forego inclusion of such mirrors e.g. to conserve space minimize weight and instead as can be seen from implement a non linear medium e.g. a non linear monolithic crystal that is configured to include one or more coatings on its end faces. For example and in accordance with an embodiment the input end e.g. end face which receives the pulsed signal generated emitted by remote. laser may be configured with a high reflectivity coating e.g. which functions similarly to the aforementioned high reflectivity mirror as its input coupler. Similarly and in accordance with an embodiment the output end e.g. end face from which the output signal exits non linear converter may be configured with a partial reflectivity coating e.g. which functions similarly to the aforementioned partial reflectivity mirror as its output coupler. Other suitable configurations for non linear medium and or non linear converter will depend on a given application and will be apparent in light of this disclosure.

In some embodiments the non linear converter when included can be matched to a given laser source implemented in remote laser e.g. a given non linear medium can be chosen at least part based on the laser medium implemented and thus used to generate optical output for example in the infrared IR range. One such alternative includes phase matched and transparent non linear crystals such as but not limited to 1 cadmium selenide CdSe 2 silver gallium sulfide AgGaS 3 silver gallium selenide AgGaSe 4 gallium II selenide GaSe 5 rubidium titanyl arsenate RbTiOAsOor RTA 6 potassium titanyl arsenate KTiOAsOor KTA 7 potassium titanyl phosphate KTiOPOor KTP and or 8 lithium niobate LiNbO . Another alternative includes quasi phase matched variants of the aforementioned transparent non linear crystals such as but not limited to 1 periodically poled lithium niobate LiNbO PPLN 2 periodically poled lithium tantalate LiTaO PPLT and or 3 periodically poled potassium titanyl phosphate KTiOPO PPKTP . Still other alternatives include but are not limited to 1 zinc germanium phosphide ZnGePor ZGP 2 orientation patterned gallium arsenide OPGaAs and or 3 orientation patterned gallium phosphide OPGaP . Other suitable types of non linear media and or non linear converters will be apparent in light of this disclosure.

Returning in some cases the efficiency of an optionally included non linear converter may be improved for example by configuring remote laser to generate a high peak power short pulse signal by means of Q switching in the optical cavity thereof. Thus and in accordance with an embodiment remote laser may implement a Q switch which may be configured as for example 1 an acousto optic Q switch 2 an electro optic Q switch and or 3 a passive Q switch using a saturable absorbing medium. In some cases Q switch may be operatively coupled for example with an RF attachment configured to provide a suitable pulsing frequency for pulsing the output signal of remote laser . Other suitable configurations for Q switch will depend on a given application and will be apparent in light of this disclosure.

In some cases ROC and more generally system may be configured to include additional optics configured to condition the signal generated emitted by ROC prior to its exit therefrom. For example and in accordance with an embodiment ROC may include one or more lenses mirrors etc. configured to condition the output signal. In some such cases the additional conditioning optics may be included within the non linear converter when optionally implemented and or may be otherwise operatively coupled with ROC e.g. optional conditioning may be performed downstream of ROC . As will be appreciated in light of this disclosure any number of suitable methods for conditioning laser signals may be implemented and the claimed invention is not intended to be limited to any one of the aforementioned example configurations techniques.

As will be appreciated in light of this disclosure the claimed invention is not limited to implementing only a single ROC e.g. including a remote laser and or optionally included non linear converter . In some cases there may be more than one remotely located laser and or non linear converter . For example illustrates a block diagram view of a laser system configured in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. As can be seen in some embodiments system may be configured with multiple ROCs operatively coupled in parallel to initial laser . In some such cases a pump switch may be operatively coupled with initial laser and configured to provide the pump signal from initial laser to one or more downstream ROCs as desired. As will further be appreciated the claimed invention is not limited to a system implementing only a single initial laser so configured but rather may implement multiple initial lasers with multiple ROCs arranged in parallel in accordance with an embodiment.

As used herein the term remote refers to a system component such as an optical converter e.g. remote optical converter ROC which does not receive input directly from a source e.g. laser source but rather receives input from a source by way of a fiber coupling device interposed there between.

The foregoing description of the embodiments of the invention has been presented for the purposes of illustration and description. It is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise form disclosed. Many modifications and variations are possible in light of this disclosure. It is intended that the scope of the invention be limited not by this detailed description but rather by the claims appended hereto.

