---

title: Condition responsive indication assembly and method
abstract: A communications assembly includes a central processing unit and a plurality of hardhat assemblies. The central processing unit transmits central signals and receives remote communications from the hardhat assemblies. The hardhat assemblies are operatively connected to the central processing unit in order to transmit the remote communications and receive the central communications. A communications hub is operatively connected between the central processing unit and each of the hardhat assemblies to control independent communication between the central processing unit and the hardhat assemblies. The central processing unit includes an incident identification module for receiving the remote communications and for identifying a portion of the remote communications from a portion of the hardhat assemblies as indicating a situation requiring a communication to be sent to the portion of the hardhat assemblies. The portion may include one or more than one hardhat assembly.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09538801&OS=09538801&RS=09538801
owner: GuardHat, Inc.
number: 09538801
owner_city: Southfield
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20151014
---
This patent application is a divisional of copending patent application having U.S. Ser. No. 14 590 596 filed Jan. 6 2015 which is divisional of U.S. Pat. No. 9 013 297.

The invention relates to condition responsive indicating systems. More particularly the invention relates to condition responsive indicating systems that include personal portable devices to be worn or carried by individuals.

The current landscape for monitoring and analyzing data to improve health and safety outcomes shows significant potential for improvement. For example industrial safety has traditionally focused on three things i providing equipment for physical protection of the worker e.g. hardhat shoes gloves eye and hearing protection ii training the worker to avoid possible safety incidents e.g. seminars certifications on the job training and iii auditing safety behavior and taking corrective actions. Depending on the underlying industry some form of interaction communication between the worker and his her environment is typically added to the safety equipment e.g. radio carbon monoxide monitor .

On average an entity may expend thousands of dollars per person per year on discrete health and safety equipment and training which varies depending on industry specific requirements. More recently industrial safety applications are increasingly using IT systems to improve safety processes as well as tracking safety compliance. Those solutions are either hardware solutions e.g. PDAs asset tracking or software solutions e.g. certification and compliance tracking safety management dashboards .

All of the current industrial safety solutions however are facing one major issue once the worker has received his her equipment and training the responsibility to comply with the safety standards remains with the worker depending on many cases on his her experience and personal foresight on how to behave and react in a certain situation.

A communications assembly includes a central processing unit and a plurality of hardhat assemblies. The central processing unit transmits central signals and receives remote communications from the hardhat assemblies. The hardhat assemblies are operatively connected to the central processing unit in order to transmit the remote communications and receive the central communications. A communications hub is operatively connected between the central processing unit and each of the hardhat assemblies to control independent communication between the central processing unit and the hardhat assemblies. The central processing unit includes an incident identification module for receiving the remote communications and for identifying a portion of the remote communications from a portion of the hardhat assemblies as indicating a situation requiring a communication to be sent to the portion of the hardhat assemblies. The portion may include one or more than one hardhat assembly.

Referring to a communications assembly is generally indicated at . The communications assembly facilitates communication between a central processing unit and a plurality of portable communications assemblies which will be discussed in greater detail subsequently. The central processing unit collects all data and communication and passes it to an applications platform . The applications platform may include such functions as data aggregation data storage notifications alarms location services an analytics engine report generator display and user interface. The central processing unit also includes a data storage facility an application programming interface API an application binary interface ABI and an incident identification module discussed in greater detail subsequently .

Multiple copies of the central processing unit are shown at and . These multiple copies of the central processing unit may either work cooperatively to increase functionality or independently to provide for system redundancy.

The API provides for an extension of the central processing unit for the development and augmentation to the central processing unit of additional software applications. By way of example and as is shown in a safety application is connected to the central processing unit through the API . Two additional third party applications are also shown as exemplary modules that provide additional function as deemed necessary by the specific deployment of the communications assembly .

The communications assembly also includes a communications hub generally shown at in . The communications hub is operatively connected to the central processing unit and receives communications through a communications bus . The communications bus may be local to the communications hub or it may be local to the central processing unit as it is contemplated that communication between the communications hub of the central processing unit may be through an electrical network or wirelessly through any wireless protocol deemed appropriate for the communication between the communications hub and the central processing unit . The communications hub may include a plurality of central base stations . These central base stations may act independently of each other and may be located remote from each other depending on the deployment of the communications assembly in the particular environment in which it is deployed.

The central base stations communicate with remote base stations . The remote base stations may be further distributed throughout a particular environment in which the communications assembly is deployed. The remote base stations collect data and generate notifications and or alarms that will be passed on to the communications hub and eventually the central processing unit either directly or via the peer to peer mesh network. The remote base stations serve as back up connections given that these remote base stations could also be bypassed by having remote transceivers connected directly to the central base stations as will be discussed in greater detail subsequently. A remote communications bus may extend between the remote base stations and the central base stations 

The communications assembly also includes a plurality of portable communications assemblies that are operatively connected to the central processing unit vis vis the communications hub . Each of the plurality of portable communications assemblies transmit remote communications to the central processing unit through the communications hub and receive central communications transmitted by the central processing unit which are also transmitted through the communications hub . As can be seen by bidirectional arrows the portable communications assemblies may communicate with each other in a peer to peer mesh network. Bidirectional arrows show that the portable communications assemblies may also communicate bidirectionally with the remote base stations . And finally a bidirectional arrow graphically illustrates the portable communications assemblies being able to communicate directly with a central base station of the communications hub . The portable communications assemblies are designed to facilitate communication in a manner which optimally transfers data that will allow for the most efficient data transfer and action if necessary based on the data being delivered. The portable communications assemblies also include a plurality of sensors that will sense conditions. The sensed conditions will be communicated away from the portable communications assemblies to other portable communications assemblies or to the central processing unit the central base stations or the base stations .

The incident identification module receives the remote communications from the plurality of portable communications assemblies and identifies a portion of the remote communications from a portion of the plurality of portable communications assemblies as indicating a situation requiring a communication to be sent to the portion of the plurality of portable communications assemblies. In one embodiment the incident identification module identifies when a situation arises that based on the readings received in the remote communications may affect the individuals wearing the portion of the plurality of portable communications assemblies that are producing those remote communications. By way of example if a portion one or more of the plurality of portable communications assemblies measure high carbon monoxide levels the incident identification module will issue a warning that the central processing unit transmit back to the portion of plurality of portable communications assemblies that either measured the high carbon monoxide levels or are in close proximity of those so those individuals know to immediately leave the area.

The communications assembly also includes a plurality of charging stations . The charging stations may be dispersed throughout disparate locations within the environment in which the communications assembly is being deployed or may even be worn by individuals carrying one of the plurality of portable communications assemblies . The charging stations will either charge an energy storage device such as a battery built within the portable communications assemblies or will be able to charge an energy storage device that is removable from the portable communications assemblies . Design parameters will dictate how the energy storage device will be connected to the portable communications assemblies which may include battery size the parameters within which the portable communications assembly operates and or the environment in which the portable communications assemblies are being deployed.

Referring to the plurality of portable communications assemblies are more specifically shown. In a preferred embodiment the portable communications assembly is a wearable device . More specifically the wearable device is shown as a hardhat and while this example will be used for the remainder of the description one skilled in the art should appreciate that the wearable device may be another article of protective clothing or merely clothing and still be within the scope of the invention.

The hardhat includes additional hardware that allows the portable communications assembly to communicate with the central processing unit its peer portable communications assemblies remote base stations or the central base stations . The hardhat includes a hard outer shell with a hard bill to which a visor may be attached. The visor is transparent to allow the individual wearing the hardhat to see therethrough. An adjustment belt is adjustable using a tensioning device that allows the hardhat to be worn comfortably but securably by the individual assigned to that hardhat.

A control unit is affixed to the wearable device . A biometric sensor is electrically connected to the control unit . The biometric sensor is also affixed to the wearable device in a manner such that the biometric sensor senses a condition of the individual wearing the wearable device . The biometric sensor senses the condition and creates a biometric signal that is transmitted to the control unit . The portable communications assembly also includes an environmental sensor that is electrically connected to the control unit . The environmental sensor is also affixed to the wearable device in a manner such that the environmental sensor senses an environmental condition local to the individual. The environmental sensor may be spaced apart from the individual. The environmental sensor creates an environmental signal and transmits that environmental signal to the control unit . A communications unit is electrically connected to the control unit and transmits the biometric and environmental signals from the control unit to a location remote of the wearable device . As is shown in the example in the communications unit will transmit the biometric and environmental signals away from the portable communications assembly to either another portable communications assembly a base station and or a central base station of the communications hub . By the wearable device having a communications unit therein the portable communications assembly may communicate with other portable communications assemblies or a central processing unit of a communications assembly .

The portable communications assembly includes a power supply that provides power to all of the elements of the portable communications assembly that require power. The power supply may be removable such that power supplies may be interchanged allowing the individual wearing the portable communications assembly to continue performing his or her functions by merely swapping out the power supply with another one.

The portable communications assembly also includes the user interface to provide information to the individual wearing the portable communications assembly . The user interface may be a radio or some other form of audio communication. In addition the user interface may include a haptic device or vibrator and or a visual communication device fixedly secured to the bill or visor of the hardhat .

The visual communication device may be a set of LEDs that provide different colored lights to indicate if there are certain occurrences or other events that require the individual wearing the wearable device to know the status. In one example a green light may indicate that all of the systems are operating and there is no issue with any of the readings being taken. A yellow light may warn the individual that something may be occurring that will require the individual s attention. And finally a red light may indicate that the individual has to take prompt action to avoid or avert a situation that may be potentially dangerous. For example a red light may indicate to the individual that a carbon monoxide sensor has identified high levels of carbon monoxide in a particular area and that the individual must leave that area as soon as possible.

Additionally the visual communication device may include a heads up display that could display data in a manner that it appears to be on the visor of the helmet . The data could be the light codes discussed above alphanumeric messages visual images or any combination thereof.

The portable communications assembly also includes a linking port allowing the portable communications assembly to be electrically connected to another portion of the communications assembly allowing it to electrically download any information that is stored locally on the portable communications assembly . The linking port would be electrically connected to a storage device that would store the data collected by the biometric and environmental sensors. Examples of a biometric sensor include a heart rate sensor a body temperature an oxygen level sensor a blood pressure sensor and the like. Examples of an environmental sensor include a carbon monoxide sensor an ambient temperature sensor a radiation sensor a pressure sensor an noxious fumes sensor an accelerometer and the like. These lists are intended to be exemplary and are not to be considered in any way limiting. 

The wearable device may also include a camera that may take images or video as seen by the individual wearing the portable communications assembly which could be stored in the storage device or communicated back to the central processing unit of the communications assembly via radio communication or the communications unit .

Referring specifically to a schematic representation of the portable communications assembly is generally indicated. The user interface includes such elements as a visual display an audio output the haptic actuator a vibration actuator and an emergency light . As discussed above the visual display may be shown upon the visor of the hardhat . The audio output may be a speaker for voice transmission or for an alarm. The emergency light may be a strobe light. The user interface includes switches potentiometers and alarm switches and a video camera microphone combination only a video camera is shown in . These devices provide information to the central processing unit of the communication assembly . A bidirectional audio interface allows communication between the individual wearing the wearable device and those that may be stationed at the central processing unit . In addition to the biometric and environmental sensors a location and contact sensor may provide inputs into the control unit of the wearable device that provide where the wearable device is. Other such sensors may identify how fast it is going its location and orientation through uses of accelerometers and gyroscopes RFID sensors and GPS. Input and output controllers control the flow of communication.

The storage device in the portable communications assembly may include onboard firmware onboard flash storage and redundant flash storage . Communication controllers control the communication between all of the different systems that are going to be used to control the communication between the wearable device and the surrounding communication assembly . The portable communications assemblies may include several different types of transceivers to facilitate as much communication as possible. By way of example a transceiver may include a WiFi transceiver a GSM transceiver a Bluetooth transceiver an RFID transceiver a ZigBee transceiver and or a satellite transceiver. It should be appreciated by those skilled in the art that other types of transceivers may be used without avoiding the scope of the inventive concepts disclosed herein. A system bus provides communication between all of these units.

The power supply is more specifically shown to include power management circuits a primary detachable and rechargeable battery and a redundant detachable and rechargeable battery .

Referring to wherein circled letters connect flow chart lines between a method for communicating between a central processing unit and a plurality of portable communications assemblies is generally indicated at . The method begins at with the powering on the portable communications assembly . Initialization in the starting of the method then begins at . Sensors in the system are initialized at . A stored onboard configuration is input into the system when it is loaded and the notification settings are set at . A power test is run at . It is then determined whether the power on test was successful at . If not a notification is indicated at and the portable communications assembly is stopped at . This is done for each of the plurality of portable communications assemblies . Communications are then transmitted from each of the plurality of portable communications assemblies to the central processing unit . This is done at step . The sensors are those that are the environmental biometric and contextual sensors. The device status is also transmitted. Notification from the central processing unit is also transmitted. Notifications from other remote portable communications assemblies are presented and if any user manually presses an SOS button it is also presented. The data is received by the central processing unit at . An event queue identifies and labels each received communication sensors are read at and all of the data is normalized and prioritized based on the particular configuration at . The prioritization of the data follows the table shown in .

If it is determined that a notification is to be presented locally to an individual portable communications assembly it is done so at . The notification may be audio visual or haptic at . The memory device stores the notification and logs it in its database. A local notification will occur when it is identified that a portion of the plurality of the portable communications assemblies send communications indicating a conditional threshold has been met.

It is then determined at whether the event was generated locally. If not it is determined whether the remote notification is from the base station or its peers at . If the event was generated locally at the event is sent to the base station at where it is also logged on the onboard storage . If the event generated was done so remotely it is then determined whether the event needs to be rebroadcast to a larger portion of the plurality of portable communications assemblies regarding the threshold limit status at . If so the broadcast of the event as notification to peers in a larger portion of the plurality of portable communications assemblies is done at . If the event was determined not to be needed to be rebroadcast to its peers it is determined whether an SOS button was pressed at . If not the portable communications assembly returns to the data acquisition subroutine of the method at . If the SOS button was pressed at a SOS alarm condition is sent at . The SOS alarm is continued to be sent until the device is reset at . This method continues until the device is turned off

The invention has been described in an illustrative manner. It is to be understood that the terminology which has been used is intended to be in the nature of words of description rather than of limitation.

Many modifications and variations of the invention are possible in light of the above teachings. Therefore within the scope of the appended claims the invention may be practiced other than as specifically described.

