---

title: Semiconductor memory device
abstract: According to one embodiment, a semiconductor memory device includes a memory cell array, a data storage circuit and a control circuit. The data storage circuit holds first data to be written into the memory cell and holds 1 bit data calculated from the first data. The control circuit writes the data of n bits into the memory cell in a first write operation and then executes a second write operation. The control circuit carries out the following control in the second write operation. It reads data stored in the memory cell in the first write operation. It restores the first data based on the data read from the memory cell and the 1 bit data held in the data storage circuit. It writes the restored first data into the memory cell.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09349442&OS=09349442&RS=09349442
owner: KABUSHIKI KAISHA TOSHIBA
number: 09349442
owner_city: Minato-ku
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20150416
---
This application is based upon and claims the benefit of priority from Japanese Patent Application No. 2014 085018 filed Apr. 16 2014 the entire contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.

Embodiments described herein relate generally to a semiconductor memory device that can store multilevel data.

In a semiconductor memory device e.g. an NAND flash memory all or half of memory cells aligned in a row direction are connected through bit lines to latch circuits for writing and reading respectively and a write or read operation is collectively performed with respect to all or half of the memory cells e.g. memory cells of 2 to 16 kB aligned in the row direction.

A write or read unit is called a page and a block includes pages. Erasing with respect to memory cells is performed in unites of blocks. Electrons are extracted from the memory cells by an erase operation to negatively set a threshold voltage and the electrons are introduced into the memory cells by a write operation whereby the threshold voltage is positively set.

A multilevel memory has been recently developed which sets one of threshold voltages which are also referred to as threshold levels hereinafter to one memory cell and stores data of bits. For example when 4 threshold levels are provided data of 2 bits can be stored in one cell and when 8 threshold levels are provided data of 3 bits can be stored in one cell. Further when 16 threshold levels are provided data of 4 bits can be stored in one cell.

On the other hand miniaturization for processing a floating gate of an element has recently become rigorous a structure that stores electrons in MONOS cells has been also suggested and density growth realized by three dimensional arrangement has been devised in particular. However a threshold value Vth of the MONOS cells decreases due to detrapping immediately after a write operation in some cases.

As a countermeasure there is a method of again performing a verify operation after a first write sequence and again carrying out writing with respect to cells which have not reached a target threshold value in accordance with each threshold value. However this method can solve the detrapping problem but increases a write time. That is at the time of performing rewriting with respect to memory cells that have not reached a target threshold value one write pulse could be supplied to each threshold level but a write threshold value used for writing must be held in a data storage circuit in a sense amplifier until this write pulse is supplied and a cache program for storing subsequent write data in the data storage circuit in advance cannot be executed in some cases.

In general according to one embodiment a semiconductor memory device includes a memory cell array a data storage circuit and a control circuit. The memory cell array includes memory cells each of which can store data of n bits n is a natural number equal to 2 or more . The data storage circuit holds first data to be written into one of the memory cells and also holds 1 bit data calculated from the first data. The control circuit writes the data of n bits into the memory cell in a first write operation and then executes a second write operation. The control circuit carries out the following control in the second write operation. It reads data stored in the memory cell in the first write operation. It restores the first data based on the data read from the memory cell and the 1 bit data held in the data storage circuit. It writes the restored first data into the memory cell.

An embodiment will now be described hereinafter with reference to the drawings. It is to be noted that like reference numerals denote constituent elements having like functions and structures.

A memory cell array includes bits lines word lines and a common source line and has memory cells which are formed of e.g. EEPROM cells and in which data is electrically rewritable arranged in a matrix form. The memory cell array is connected to a bit line control circuit that controls the bit lines and a word line control circuit .

The bit line control circuit reads data from the memory cells in the memory cell array through the bit lines. The bit line control circuit detects states of the memory cells in the memory cell array through the bit lines or applies a write control voltage to the memory cells in the memory cell array through the bit lines to write data in the memory cells.

The bit line control circuit is connected to a column decoder and a data input output buffer . Data storage circuits in the bit line control circuit are selected by the column decoder . Data of the memory cells read to the data storage circuits is output to a control section from a data input output terminal through the data input output buffer . The data input output terminal is connected to the control section outside a memory chip.

The control section includes e.g. a microcomputer and receives data output from the data input output terminal . Further the control section outputs various kinds of commands CMD that control operations of the NAND flash memory an address ADD and data DT. Write data input from the control section to the data input output terminal is supplied to a data storage circuit selected by the column decoder through the data input output buffer and a command and an address are Supplied to a control signal and control voltage generation circuit a control circuit .

The word line control circuit is connected to the memory cell array . This word line control circuit selects a word line in the memory cell array and applies a voltage required for reading writing or erasing to the selected word line. The memory cell array the bit line control circuit the column decoder the data input output buffer and the word line control circuit are connected to the control signal and control voltage generation circuit .

The control signal and control voltage generation circuit controls operations of the memory cell array the bit line control circuit the column decoder the data input output buffer and the word line control circuit . The control signal and control voltage generation circuit is connected to a control signal input terminal and controlled by control signals Address Latch Enable ALE Command Latch Enable CLE write Enable WE and Read Enable RE input from the control section through the control signal input terminal . The control signal and control voltage generation circuit generates voltages of the word lines or the bit lines at the time of writing data and also generates a voltage supplied to a well as will be described later. The control signal and control voltage generation circuit includes a booster circuit like a charge pump circuit and can generate a program voltage and other high voltages.

The bit line control circuit the column decoder the word line control circuit and the control signal and control voltage generation circuit constitute a write circuit and a read circuit.

The bit line control circuit has data storage circuits . A pair of bit lines BL BL BL BL BL BL or BLne BLno is connected to each data storage circuit .

As indicated by a broken line the memory cell array includes blocks. Each blocks includes NAND units and data is erased in e.g. blocks. Moreover an erase operation is simultaneously carried out with respect to two bit lines connected to the data storage circuit .

Additionally memory cells arranged every other bit line and connected to one word line memory cells in the range surrounded by the broken line constitute one sector. Data is written or read in accordance with each sector. That is half of the memory cells arranged in a row direction are connected to corresponding bit lines. Thus a write or read operation is executed to each half of the memory cells arranged in the row direction.

In a read operation a program verify operation and a program operation one of two bit lines BL BL connected to the data storage circuit is selected in accordance with an address signal YA YA . . . YAi . . . or YAn supplied from the outside. Further in accordance with an external address one word line is selected and two pages indicated by the broken line are selected. The two pages are switched using an address.

Two pages are selected in case of storing 2 bits in 1 cell one page is selected in case of storing 1 bit in 1 cell three pages are selected in case of storing 3 bits in 1 cell and four pages are selected in case of storing 4 bits in 1 cell.

It is to be noted that both the configuration shown in and the configuration shown in can be applied in the following description but an example using will be described below.

A high voltage N channel transistor HVNTr that connects the bit lines to the data storage circuits is formed in the substrate . Moreover a high voltage P channel transistor HVPTr constituting e.g. a word line drive circuit is formed in the N type well region . As shown in the high voltage transistors HVNTr and HVPTr have gate insulating films which are for example thicker than the low voltage transistors LVNTr and LVPTr respectively.

As shown in the block BLK includes string units SU in this example . Each string unit SU includes NAND strings .

Each NAND string includes e.g. 8 memory cell transistors MT the selection transistors ST and ST and a back gate transistor BT. An interlayer insulating film is formed on a conductive layer which will be referred to as a back gate layer hereinafter BG and semiconductor layers are formed in the interlayer insulating film. The word lines WL connected to control gates of the memory cell transistors MT are formed around the semiconductor layers . The select gate lines SGD and SGS connected to gates of the selection transistors ST and ST are formed around the semiconductor layers on the word lines WL. Furthermore one end of each semiconductor layer is connected to the bit line BL and the other end of each semiconductor layer is connected to the source line SL.

As described above the block BLK includes string units SU. Moreover each string unit SU includes n 1 in this example n is a natural number equal to 0 or more NAND strings . Each of the NAND strings includes e.g. 8 memory cell transistors MT MT to MT the selection transistors ST and sT the back gate transistor BT and dummy cell transistors DTD and DTS.

Each memory cell transistor MT includes a stacked gate including a control gate and a charge storage layer and holds data in a nonvolatile manner. It is to be noted that the number of the memory cell transistors MT is not restricted to 8 it may be 16 32 64 128 or the like and the number is not limited. The back gate transistor BT also includes a stacked gate including a control gate and a charge storage layer like the memory cell transistor MT. However the back gate transistor BT is not configured to hold data but it functions as a simple current path at the time of writing or erasing data. The memory cell transistors MT the back gate transistor BT and the dummy cell transistors DTD and DTS are arranged so that their current paths are connected in series between the selection transistors ST and ST. It is to be noted that the back gate transistor BT is provided between the memory cell transistors MT and MT. The current path of the dummy cell transistor DTD on one end side of the series connection is connected to one end of a current path of the selection transistor ST and the current path of the dummy cell transistor DTS on the other end side is connected to one end of the current path of the selection transistor ST.

Gates of the selection transistors ST in the string units SU to SU M 1 are connected to select gate lines SGD to SGD M 1 in common respectively. Gates of the selection transistors ST are connected to select gate lines SGS to SGS M 1 in common respectively. On the other hand control gates of the memory cell transistors MT to MT in the same block BLK are connected to word lines WL to WL in common respectively. Control gates of the back gate transistors BT are connected to back gate line BG BG to BG L 1 in the blocks BLK to BLK L 1 respectively in common. Control gates of the dummy cell transistors DTD and DTS are connected to word lines WLDD and WLDS in common respectively.

That is the word lines WL to WL and the back gate line BG are connected in common among the string units SU in the same block BLK whereas the select gate lines SGD and SGS are independent in accordance with each string unit SU even within the same block BLK.

Additionally in the NAND strings arranged in the matrix form in the memory cell array the other ends of the current paths of the selection transistors ST in the NAND strings provided in the same column are connected to any bit line BL in common. That is the bit line BL connects the NAND strings in the same block BLK in common and further connects the NAND strings in the blocks BLK in common. Further the other ends of the current paths of the selection transistors ST are connected to any source line SL. The source line SL connects the NAND strings among the strings units SU in common for example.

As described above data of the memory cell transistors MT provided in the same block BLK are collectively erased. On the other hand data is read or written collectively with respect to the memory cell transistors MT connected to any word line WL in common in any string unit SU in any block BLK. The unit serves as a page .

As shown in the drawing NAND strings are arranged between the source line layer SL and the bit line BL above a semiconductor substrate. A semiconductor layer in the NAND string has one columnar shape an i like shape . The source line layer SL is formed above the semiconductor substrate and columnar semiconductor layers and are formed on the source line layer. Furthermore the selection transistor ST the memory cell transistors MT to MT and the selection transistor ST are formed around the semiconductor layers and from the lower side in the mentioned order. Moreover the bit line layer BL is formed on the semiconductor layer

Gate insulating films and are formed on a side surface of the semiconductor layer and the word lines WL to WL are formed on the gate insulating film . The word lines WL to WL function as the control gates of the memory cell transistors MT to MT respectively. Gate insulating films and are formed on side surfaces of the semiconductor layers and respectively and the select gate lines SGS and SGD are formed on the gate insulating films and respectively. The select gate lines SGS and SGD function as gates of the selection transistors ST and ST respectively. It is to be noted that in this configuration the back gate transistor BT is not required.

The block BLK includes in this example 2 string units SU and SU. Additionally each string unit SU includes in this example 4 NAND strings . Each of the NAND strings includes e.g. 64 memory cell transistors MT the selection transistors ST and ST and the dummy transistors DTD and DTS. It is to be noted that shows the dummy cell transistors DTD and DTS but they are omitted in .

Each memory cell transistor MT includes a stacked gate including a control gate and a charge storage layer and holds data in a non volatile manner. It is to be noted that the number of the memory cell transistors MT is not restricted to 64 it may be 8 16 32 128 or the like and the number is not limited. The memory cell transistors MT and the dummy cell transistors DTD and DTS are arranged so that their current paths are connected in series between the selection transistors ST and ST. The current path of the dummy cell transistor DTD on one end side of the series connection is connected to one end of a current path of the selection transistor ST and the current path of the dummy cell transistor DTS on the other end side is connected to one end of the current path of the selection transistor ST.

Gates of the selection transistors ST in the strings units SU are connected to the select gate lines SGD and SGD in common respectively. Gates of the selection transistors ST are connected to the select gate lines SGS and SGS in common respectively. Control gates of the memory cell transistors MT in the row direction are connected to the word lines WL to WL in common respectively. Control gates of the dummy cell transistors DTD and DTS are connected to the word lines WLDD and WLDS in common respectively.

That is the word lines WL to WL are connected among the string units SU in the same block BLK in common whereas the select gate lines SGD and SGS are independent in accordance with each string unit SU even in the same block BLK.

Further the other ends of current paths of the selection transistors ST in the NAND strings arranged in the row direction in the memory cell array are connected to any bit line BL. That is the bit line BL connects the NAND strings in the same block BLK in common and further connects the NAND strings in the blocks BLK in common. Furthermore the other ends of electric paths of the selection transistors ST are connected to the source line SRC in common.

The configuration of the memory cell array is described in e.g. Three dimensional Stacked Nonvolatile Semiconductor Memory U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 407 403 filed on Mar. 19 2009. Moreover it is also described in Three dimensional Stacked Nonvolatile Semiconductor Memory U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 406 524 filed on Mar. 18 2009 Nonvolatile Semiconductor Memory Device and Manufacturing Method Thereof U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 679 991 filed on Mar. 25 2010 and Semiconductor Memory and Manufacturing Method Thereof U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 532 030 filed on Mar. 23 2009. These patent applications are entirely invoked in the specification by reference.

It is to be noted that all of the configuration shown in the configuration shown in and the configuration shown in can be applied to the embodiment.

Besides there are Vpass as a voltage that is supplied to a word line of a non selected cell at the time of writing data and Vread as a voltage supplied to a non selected word line at the time of reading data.

Each of and shows an example of the data storage circuit depicted in . The data storage circuit includes a sense amplifier unit depicted in and a data control unit depicted in .

As shown in the sense amplifier unit includes N channel MOS transistors which will be referred to as NMOS hereinafter to P channel MOS transistors which will be referred to as PMOS hereinafter and transfer gates and a latch circuit and a capacitor . The latch circuit includes e.g. clocked inverter circuits and

One end of a current path of the NMOS is connected to a node to which the power supply Vdd is supplied. The other end of the current path of the NMOS is grounded through the transfer gate the NMOS and the transfer gate . One end of a current path of the NMOS is connected to a connection node between the NMOS and the transfer gate . The other end of the NMOS is connected to the bit line BL arranged in the memory cell array. Series circuits of the NMOS and are connected to the current path of the NMOS in parallel.

Moreover one end of a current path of the PMOS is connected to a node to which a power supply voltage Vdd is supplied. The other end of the current path of the PMOS is connected to an input end of the inverter circuit constituting the latch circuit through the PMOS and grounded via the NMOS . An input end of the clocked inverter circuit cross connected to the inverter circuit is connected to the data control unit through the NMOS . Additionally a gate of the PMOS is connected to a connection node between the NMOS and and one end of the capacitor is connected to this connection node. A clock signal CLK is supplied to the other end of this capacitor .

The control signal and control voltage generation circuit which will be referred to as a generation circuit hereinafter supplies various kinds of control signals e.g. signals BLX LAT INV BLC BLS HLL XXL STB RST and NCO to the inside of the sense amplifier unit as described below.

The signal BLX is supplied to a gate of the NMOS . The signal LAT at an output terminal of the inverter circuit constituting the latch circuit is supplied to a gate of the NMOS constituting the transfer gate . The signal INV at an input terminal of the inverter circuit is supplied to a gate of the PMOS constituting the transfer gate . The signal BLC is supplied to a gate of the NMOS . Additionally the signal BLS is supplied to a gate of the NMOS .

The signal INV is supplied to a gate of the NMOS constituting the transfer gate . The signal LAT is supplied to a gate of the PMOS constituting the transfer gate .

The signal HLL is supplied to a gate of the NMOS and the signal XXL is supplied to a gate of the NMOS . The signal STB is supplied to a gate of the PMOS and the reset signal RST is supplied to a gate of the NMOS . Further the signal NCO is supplied to a gate of the NMOS .

A write operation a read operation and a program verify read operation in the sense amplifier unit will now be briefly described.

In case of writing data in the memory cells the generation circuit supplies the following control signals. First the generation circuit sets the signal STB to a high level which will be referred to as an H level hereinafter temporarily sets the reset signal RST to the H level and resets the latch circuit . As a result the signal LAT of the latch circuit turns to the H level and the signal INV of the same turns to a low level which will be referred to as an L level hereinafter .

Then the generation circuit sets the signal NCO to the H level. Consequently data is taken into the latch circuit from the data control unit . If this data is on the L level 0 the signal LAT is set to the L level and the signal INV is set to the H level. Furthermore if the data is on the H level 1 indicative of non writing the data of the latch circuit remains the same the signal LAT is held at the H level and the signal INV is held at the L level.

Subsequently the generation circuit sets the signals BLX BLC and BLS to the H level. Then in case of writing i.e. if the latch circuit has the L level signal LAT and the H level signal INV writing the transfer gate is turned off the transfer gate is turned on and the bit line BL has the ground voltage Vss. In the state when the word line has the program voltage Vpgm data is written into the memory cell.

On the other hand in case of non writing i.e. if the latch circuit has the H level signal LAT and the L level signal INV the transfer gate is turned on the transfer gate is turned off and hence the bit line BL is charged with the power supply voltage Vdd. Here if the word line has the program voltage Vpgm a channel of the memory cell is boosted to a high potential no data is written into the memory cell.

In case of reading data from the memory cell the generation circuit supplies the following control signals. First the generation circuit temporarily sets the reset signal RST to the H level and resets the latch circuit . Consequently the signal LAT of the latch circuit turns to the H level and the signal INV of the same turns to the L level.

Then the generation circuit sets the signals BLS BLC BLX HLL and XXL to predetermined voltages. Consequently the bit line BL is charged and Node of the capacitor is charged to the power supply voltage Vdd. Here if a threshold voltage of the memory cell is higher than a read voltage level the memory cell is in an OFF sate and the bit line BL is held at the H level. That is Node is held at the H level. Additionally if the threshold voltage of the memory cell is lower than the read voltage level the memory cell is in an ON state and an electric charge in the bit line BL is discharged. Thus the bit line BL changes to the L level. Consequently Node also changes to the L level.

Subsequently the generation circuit sets the signal STB to the L level. Then if the memory cell is ON since Node is on the L level the PMOS is turned on. Consequently the latch circuit has the H level signal INV and the L level signal LAT. On the other hand if the memory cell is in the OFF state since Node is on the H level the PMOS is turned off. Consequently the signal INV of the latch circuit is held at the L level and the signal LAT of the same is held at the H level.

Subsequently the generation circuit sets the signal NCO to the H level. Then the NMOS is turned on and data in the latch circuit is transferred to the data control unit

Further after the write operation the program verify operation of verifying the threshold voltage of the memory cell is carried out. The program verify operation is substantially the same as the read operation.

The arithmetic circuit includes a bus which will be referred to as an IBUS hereinafter transfer gates and a latch circuit and a setting circuit . The transfer gates and are connected to both ends of the IBUS and complementarily operate. The latch circuit latches data of the IBUS. The setting circuit sets voltage levels of the data latch circuits LDL UDL and XDL in accordance with data of the latch circuit .

The transfer gate operates based on complementary signals COND and CONS and connects a bus which will be referred to as SBUS hereinafter of the sense amplifier unit with the IBUS. The transfer gate operates based on the complementary signals CONS and COND and connects the IBUS with a bus which will be referred to as DBUS hereinafter having the data latch circuits LDL UDL and XDL connected thereto. The transfer gate is OFF when the transfer gate is ON and the transfer gate is ON when the transfer gate is OFF.

The latch circuit includes PMOS to NMOS to and an inverter circuit . A set signal SET is fed to gates of the PMOS and the NMOS . A reset signal REST is supplied to a gate of the PMOS . A signal IFH is supplied to a gate of the NMOS . A signal IFL is supplied to a gate of the NMOS . A gate of the NMOS is connected to the IBUS through the inverter circuit . Further a gate of the NMOS is connected to the IBUS.

The setting circuit includes PMOS to and NMOS to . A signal FAIL is supplied to a gate of the PMOS and a gate of the NMOS . The signal FAIL is a signal of a connection node between the PMOS and the NMOS as one output terminal of the latch circuit . A signal MTCH is supplied to a gate of each of the PMOS and the NMOS . The signal MTCH is a signal of a connection node between the PMOS and the NMOS as the other output terminal of the latch circuit . Additionally a signal MHB is supplied to a gate of the PMOS and a signal FHB is supplied to a gate of the PMOS . A signal FL is supplied to a gate of the NMOS and a signal ML is supplied to a gate of the NMOS .

The data latch circuits LDL UDL and XDL have the same configuration and each of these circuits includes a latch circuit and a transfer gate that connects the latch circuit to the DBUS. Each transfer gate is controlled by a signal BLCA a complementary signal BLCA B thereof a signal BLCB a complementary signal BLCB B thereof a signal BLCX and a complementary signal BLCA B thereof. The data latch circuit XDL is connected to an external IO through the NMOS . A signal CSL is supplied to a gate of the NMOS .

As described above the data control unit holds write data and also holds data read from a memory cell at the time of reading.

Write data of 2 bits supplied from the data input output buffer is latched by e.g. the data latch circuits LDL and UDL bit by bit through the data latch circuit XDL.

The arithmetic circuit shown in can execute arithmetic operations such as AND OR exclusive NOR and others with respect to data in the data latch circuits LDL and UDL. For example in case of AND data held in the data latch circuits LDL and UDL is output to the DBUS and the IBUS. In this case the IBUS is set to the H level only when both pieces of data held in the data latch circuits LDL and UDL are 1 and the IBUS is set to the L level in any other case. That is the IBUS is set to 1 at the time of non writing only and the IBUS is set to 0 at the time of writing. This data is transferred to the sense amplifier unit shown in via the SBUS thereby performing writing.

The sense amplifier units shown in and the data latch circuits LDL UDL and XDL shown in may be prepared and each arithmetic circuit shown in may be arranged with respect to these sense amplifier units and data latch circuits. Consequently a circuit area can be reduced.

Operations of the arithmetic circuit can be modified in many ways various control methods can be applied to e.g. one logical operation and the control methods can be changed as required.

The NAND flash memory according to this embodiment is a multilevel memory. Thus data of 2 bits can be stored in 1 cell. The 2 bits can be changed over based on addresses a first page a second page . In case of storing 2 bits in 1 cell 2 pages are changed over. However in case of storing 3 bits in 1 cell the respective bits are changed over based on addresses a first page a second page a third page . Further in case of storing 4 bits in 1 cell the bits are changed over based on addresses a first page a second page a third page a fourth page .

Furthermore in this embodiment a description will be given as to a case where writing is collectively performed with respect to all cells aligned in the row direction as shown in .

Moreover read voltage levels A R B R and C R between the respective threshold voltages are used for reading data. Verify voltage levels at the time of writing are A V B V and C V which are slightly higher than the read voltage levels A R B R and C R to provide data retention margins respectively. That is in this embodiment the read voltage levels A R B R and C R are used in the read operation and the verify voltage levels A V B V and C V are used in the write verify operation.

A program sequence in the first embodiment will now be described hereinafter. In the program sequence as a countermeasure against a problem that the threshold value of the memory cell decreases due to detrapping immediately after a first write operation a second write operation including a verify operation is performed to restore write data.

The program sequence in the first embodiment includes the first write operation a weak erase operation and the second write operation.

As shown in first when the H level indicating that a signal Ready Busy is in ready state is set a data controller in the control section loads data of the lower page to the data latch circuit XDL which will be referred to as XDL hereinafter shown in . Then the data in the XDL is transferred to the data latch circuit LDL which will be referred to as LDL hereinafter . Subsequently the data controller in the control section loads data of the upper page to the XDL. Then the data in the XDL is transferred to the data latch circuit UDL which will be referred to as UDL hereinafter . In this manner as represented by a in the generation circuit sets the data to the data latch circuits LDL UDL and XDL a step S in .

Subsequently the first write operation and the write verify operation are carried out based on the program sequence shown in . In the write operation data a b and c are written in the memory cells a step S . At this time the generation circuit controls the write operation based on the data latched in the LDL. That is the write operation is performed when the data in the LDL is 0 and the write operation is not performed when the data in the LDL is 1 non writing .

In the verify operation reading is carried out with respect to the memory cells having the data a b and c with the use of the verify voltage levels A V B V and C V steps S S and S . As a result of the verify operation when a threshold voltage of a memory cell exceeds the verify voltage level data in the LDL corresponding to this memory cell is set to 1 from 0 . Then whether the memory cells corresponding to data stored in a program buffer exceed the verify voltage levels is determined. That is whether the number of the data latch circuits LDL set to 1 exceeds a specified number is determined a step S . When the number of the data latch circuits LDL set to 1 exceeds the specified number the first write operation is terminated.

On the other hand when the number of the data latch circuits LDL set to 1 is less than the specified number the write voltage Vpgm is slightly increased step up the processing returns to the step S and the write operation of the step S and subsequent processing are repeated. Consequently the write operation and the write verify operation are alternately repeated until the number of the data latch circuits LDL set to 1 becomes the specified number or more.

Here since writing begins from memory cells having lower threshold values in the write operation when there is no memory cell which is to be written with the data a the data latch circuit XDL does not have to latch data for the second write operation. Thus as shown in the signal Ready Busy changes to the H level and subsequent write data is transferred to the data latch circuit XDL. That is the data latch circuit XDL is used as a cache for the subsequent write data. Consequently high speed writing can be realized.

After end of the first write operation the weak erase operation is performed with respect to the memory cells a step S .

The weak erase operation is an operation of applying weak voltage stress which will be referred to as reverse stress hereinafter in the same direction as an erase voltage applied to the memory cells at the time of a data erase operation. In the weak erase operation a weak erase voltage the reverse stress in a direction opposite to a write voltage applied to the memory cells in the first and second write operations is applied to the memory cells. For example a voltage of a selected word line is determined as 0 V and a channel potential of each memory cell is determined as a positive voltage. Consequently the reverse stress a reverse pulse is applied to the memory cell. It is to be noted that a detailed operation of the weak erase operation will be described later.

As described above when the specified number or more of the data latch circuits LDL are set to 1 the first write operation is completed. Then the weak erase operation is executed and the generation circuit sets data of 1 bit generated from write data data of a lower page and an upper page in the data latch circuits UDL after end of the weak erase operation. For example the arithmetic circuit executes an arithmetic operation of exclusive NOR with respect to the data in the data latch circuits LDL and UDL and sets an arithmetic result 1 0 1 and 0 in the data latch circuits UDL as represented by a in .

First to perform writing with respect to the memory cell having the data a the following operation is executed. As shown in and b in the memory cell that should have the data a is read by using a read voltage level BC R a step S . The read voltage level BC R is a voltage level between the read voltage levels B R and C R. When a threshold value of the memory cell subjected to the reading is equal to or less than BC R and data of the UDL is 0 data of the LDL corresponding to the memory cell is set to 0 . As other conditions the data of the LDL corresponding to the memory cell is set to 1 .

Then when the data of the LDL is 0 the generation circuit executes the verify operation with respect to the memory cell corresponding to the LDL with the use of the verify voltage level A V a step S . Subsequently as a result of the verify operation writing to set the data a is executed with respect to the memory cell whose memory cell threshold value is equal to the verify voltage level A V or less a step S .

Subsequently to again perform writing with respect to the memory cell having the data b the following operation is executed. As shown in and c in the memory cell that should have the data b is read by using a read voltage level AB R a step S . The read voltage level AB R is a voltage level between the read voltage levels A R and B R. When a threshold value of the memory cell subjected to reading is equal to the read voltage level AB R or more and data of the UDL is 1 data of the LDL corresponding to the memory cell is set to 0 . As other conditions the data of the LDL corresponding to the memory cell is set to 1 .

Subsequently when the data of the LDL is 0 the generation circuit executes the verify operation with respect to the memory cell corresponding to the LDL by using the verify voltage level B V a step S . Then writing for setting the data b is executed with respect to the memory cell whose memory cell threshold value is found to be equal to the verify voltage level B V or less as a result of the verify operation a step S .

Subsequently to again perform writing with respect to the memory cell having the data c the following operation is executed. As shown in and d in the memory cell that should have the data c is read by using a read voltage level BC R a step S . The read voltage level BC R is a voltage level between the read voltage levels B R and C R. When a threshold value of the memory cell subjected to reading is equal to the read voltage level BC R or more and data of the UDL is 0 data of the LDL corresponding to the memory cell is set to 0 . As other conditions the data of the LDL corresponding to the memory cell is set to 1 .

Here the data latch circuit UDL does not have to latch data for the second write operation. Thus if subsequent write data corresponding to 1 page has been transferred to the data latch circuit XDL from the outside the data in the data latch circuit XDL is transferred to the data latch circuit UDL. Therefore as shown in the signal Ready Busy changes to the H level and the subsequent write data corresponding to 1 page is transferred to the data latch circuit XDL. That is the data latch circuits XDL and UDL are used as caches for the subsequent write data corresponding to 2 pages. Consequently high speed writing can be realized.

Subsequently when data in the LDL is 0 the verify operation is executed with respect to a memory cell corresponding to the LDL by using the verify voltage level C V a step S . Then in the verify operation writing to set the data c is executed with respect to the memory cell whose memory cell threshold value is equal to the verify voltage level C V or less a step S .

According to the first embodiment described above to restore the write data written in the memory cells having the data a b and c which one of the data a b and c each of the read memory cells has is determined based on a result of reading using the voltage AB R between the read voltage levels A R the read voltage level for the data a and B R the read voltage level for the data b and the voltage BC R between the read voltage levels B R and C R the read voltage level for the data c and writing is executed with respect to each of the voltage levels of the data a b and c . As a result it is possible to provide the semiconductor memory device that can suppress an influence of fluctuations in threshold values immediately after writing in the memory cells and enables high speed writing.

It is to be noted that in the first embodiment although the write operation is executed after inputting data corresponding to 2 pages i.e. data L of the lower page and data U of the upper page since the data a can be written when the data of the lower page is input as shown in writing of the data a may be first started then the data of the upper page may be input and thereafter the data a b and c may be written. shows a sequence chart of this example. As shown in the drawing before inputting the data L of the lower page and inputting the data U of the upper page the write operation may be started.

Furthermore the verify voltage level in the second write operation may be replaced with the verify voltage level effected in the first write operation. Moreover the program voltage Vpgm and a pulse time for applying the program voltage Vpgm may be changed. Moreover after the second write operation the second write operation may be repeated more than once.

Additionally if the memory cell has a threshold value that is unstable due to e.g. detrapping of an electric charge by performing the weak erase operation after the first write operation and before the second write operation the threshold value of the memory cell is lowered at this point of time. Further rewriting is executed with respect to the memory cell in the second write operation. Consequently the write operation in which a threshold value distribution of the memory cell hardly decreases can be carried out.

In the program sequence shown in although the weak erase operation of the step S is executed between the step S and the step S the weak erase operation may be executed between the step S and the step S. The weak erase operation may be executed with respect to the memory cell which passed the verify operation in the first write operation. The weak erase operation also may be executed with respect to the memory cell in which data a b or c to be written.

Operation waveforms of the write operation the read operation and the write verify operation in the program sequence according to the embodiment will now be described hereinafter.

For example in the write operation of the step S shown in the write voltage Vpgm is applied to a selected word line as shown in . In the write verify operation of the steps S S and S the verify voltage levels A V B V and C V are applied to selected word lines respectively as shown in .

Furthermore in the write verify operation of the steps S and S shown in the read voltage level BC R between the read voltage levels B R and C R is applied to a selected word line as shown in . In the write verify operation of the step S the read voltage level AB R between the read voltage levels A R and B R is applied to a selected word line as shown in .

In the write verify operation of the steps S S and S the same verify voltage levels A V B V and C V as those of the steps S S and S may be applied or slightly different values may be applied to selected word lines as shown in .

A first write operation and a weak erase operation in the program sequence according to this modification are the same as the first embodiment and hence a description thereof will be omitted. Here a second write operation executed after the weak erase operation will be described. It is to be noted that particulars of the weak erase operation will be described later.

As described above when a specified number or more of the data latch circuits LDL are set to 1 a first write operation is completed. Then the weak erase operation is executed and 1 0 1 and 0 are set to the data latch circuit UDL after end of this weak erase operation as represented by a in like the first embodiment. Thereafter such a second write operation as shown in and b c and d in is executed.

First to again perform writing in each memory cell having data a the following operation is executed. In this modification as shown in and b in after end of the first write operation the verify operation is executed using the verify voltage level A V a step S .

In the first embodiment as represented by b in after end of the first write operation the memory cells are read by using the data stored in the data latch circuits UDL and the read voltage level BC R thereby classifying the memory cells having the data a and c . Additionally the verify operation is executed with the use of the verify voltage level A V to select the memory cell having the data a whose threshold value is lower than the verify voltage level A V. However it is unlikely that the threshold value of the memory cell having the data c decreases to reach the verify voltage level A V or less and even if writing to set the data a is performed with respect to the memory cell having the data c equal to the verify voltage level A V or less an influence on the memory cell having the data c is small. Thus in this example reading using the read voltage level BC R is eliminated and the verify operation is executed with the use of the verify voltage level A V.

As shown in the data latch circuits SDL which will be referred to as SDL hereinafter are prepared in the data storage circuit . In the data latch circuits SDL 0 is latched when a threshold level of each memory cell is lower than the verify voltage level A V as a result of the verify operation using the verify voltage level A V or 1 is latched when the threshold level of each memory cell is higher than the verify voltage level A V as a result of the same.

Subsequently the data latched in the UDL and the SDL are subjected to an OR operation and its result is stored in the SDL.

Then when data in the SDL is 0 namely the generation circuit executes writing to set the data a with respect to memory cells which are to be written with the data a or the data c have memory cell threshold values equal to the verify voltage level A V or less the step S . Subsequent operations represented by c and d in are the same as the first embodiment.

In the modification according to the first embodiment omitting the read operation for discriminating the memory cells which are to be written with the data a and the memory cells which are to be written with the data c enables reducing the operations in the program sequence beyond the first embodiment thereby realizing high speed writing. Other structures and effects are the same as the first embodiment.

A first write operation and a weak erase operation in the program sequence according to the second embodiment are the same as the first embodiment and a second write operation executed after the weak erase operation will be described here. It is to be noted that particulars of the weak erase operation will be described later.

As described above when a specified number or more of data latch circuits LDL are set to 1 the first write operation is completed. Then the weak erase operation is executed and 1 0 1 and 0 are set to a data latch circuit UDL after end of the weak erase operation as represented by a in like the first embodiment. Thereafter such a second write operation as shown in and b c and d in is executed.

Here the data latch circuit LDL does not have to latch data for the second write operation. Thus if next write data corresponding to 1 page has been transferred to a data latch circuit XDL from the outside data in the data latch circuit XDL is transferred to the data latch circuit LDL. Therefore as shown in a signal Ready Busy is set to an H level and the next write data corresponding to 1 page is transferred to the data latch circuit XDL. That is the data latch circuits XDL and LDL are used as caches for the next write data corresponding to 2 pages. Consequently high speed writing can be realized.

First to again perform writing with respect to a memory cell having the data a the following operation is executed. In this second embodiment as shown in and b in after completion of the first write operation like the modification of the first embodiment a verify voltage level A V is used to execute a verify operation a step S .

In the data latch circuits SDL 0 is latched when a threshold level of the memory cell is lower than the verify voltage level A V as a result of the verify operation using the verify voltage level A V or 1 is latched when the threshold level of the memory cell is higher than the verify voltage level A V as a result of the same.

Then a result of performing an OR operation to data latched in the UDL and the SDL and a result of performing the OR operation to inverted data of the data latched in the UDL and the SDL are stored in the SDL and the UDL respectively. Here the UDL turns to 0 when the UDL originally holds data 1 i.e. a memory cell of write Inhibit and a cell which is to be written with data b and has the verify voltage level A V or a higher level but the memory cell of write Inhibit is unlikely to have a threshold value of the verify voltage level A V or a higher level only the cell which is to be written with the data b remains.

Then a generation circuit executes writing to provide the data a when the data in the SDL is 0 namely with respect to a memory cell which is to be written with the data a or the data c and has a memory cell threshold value equal to the verify voltage level A V or less a step S .

Then to again perform writing with respect to the memory cell having the data b the following operation is executed. As shown in and c in the verify operation is executed with the use of a verify voltage level B V a step S . In the data latch circuit SDL 0 is latched when a threshold level of the memory cell is lower than the verify voltage level B V as a result of the verify operation using the verify voltage level B V or 1 is latched when the threshold level of the memory cell is higher than the verify voltage level B V as a result of the same.

Subsequently a result of performing the OR operation to the data latched in the UDL and the SDL and a result of performing the OR operation to inverted data of the data latched in the UDL and SDL are stored in the SDL and the UDL respectively. Here the UDL turns to 0 when the UDL originally holds data 1 i.e. a memory cell of write Inhibit or cells which are to be written with data a and c and has the verify voltage level B V or a higher level but the memory cell of write Inhibit or the cell which is to be written with the data a is unlikely to have a threshold value of the verify voltage level B V or a higher level only the cell which is to be written with the data c remains.

Then the generation circuit executes writing to provide the data b when the data in the SDL is 0 namely with respect to the memory cell that is to be written with the data b and has a memory cell threshold value equal to the verify voltage level B V or less a step S .

Then to again perform writing with respect to the memory cell having the data c the following operation is executed. As shown in and d in the verify operation is executed with the use of a verify voltage level C V a step S . In the data latch circuit SDL 0 is latched when a threshold level of the memory cell is lower than the verify voltage level C V as a result of the verify operation using the verify voltage level C V or 1 is latched when the threshold level of the memory cell is higher than the verify voltage level C V as a result of the same.

Subsequently the data latched in the UDL and the SDL are subjected to the OR operation and its result is stored in the SDL and the UDL.

Then the generation circuit executes writing to provide the data c when the data in the SDL is 0 namely with respect to a memory cell which is to be written with the data c and has a memory cell threshold value equal to the verify voltage level C V or less a step S .

Here the data latch circuit UDL does not have to latch data for the second write operation. Thus the UDL can be used as e.g. a data latch circuit that holds next write data.

Further the verify voltage level of the second write operation may be replaced with the verify voltage level effected in the first write operation. Moreover a program voltage Vpgm and a pulse time for applying the program voltage Vpgm may be changed.

After the writing to provide the data c the program sequence is terminated but the second write operation may be repeated more than once.

In the second embodiment the reading using the read voltage level AB R in the first embodiment uses a result of the verify operation adopting the verify voltage level A V and the reading using the read voltage level BC R uses a result of the verify operation adopting the verify voltage level B V in the same thereby omitting a time required for preliminary reading adopting the read voltage levels AB R and BC R. Consequently high speed reading can be realized. Other structures and effects are the same as those in the first embodiment.

A semiconductor memory device according to a third embodiment will now be described. In the third embodiment the first write operation and the second write operation described in the first embodiment are executed in different sequences.

 a and b in are flowcharts showing program sequences according to the third embodiment. A first program sequence represented by a in is the same as the first write operations in the first embodiment and the modification of the first embodiment or the second embodiment. A second program sequence represented by b in is the same as the second write operation in the first embodiment. It is to be noted that in this example the second write operation in the modification of the first embodiment or the second embodiment may be executed in place of the second program sequence represented by b in .

Based on the first program sequence represented by a in data of 2 bits i.e. data a b and c are written in memory cells and the first program sequence is terminated. Then after a fixed period of time data of 2 bits are again written in the same memory cells based on the second program sequence represented by b in .

In the second program sequence the second write operation is executed by using data of 1 bit generated from the write data of 2 bits. Although the write data in the second program sequence may be held in the data storage circuits shown in a latch circuit may be newly provided to hold the data. If the latch circuit is newly provided and a chip size disadvantageously increases the write data in the second program sequence may be stored in some of the memory cells as 2 value data. Furthermore the data may be again transferred to the memories from an external controller. In any case data corresponding to 2 bits is not required and only data of 1 bit generated from 2 bits can suffice thereby suppressing a data transfer time and a memory region.

The second program sequence may be executed after writing data in a memory cell adjacent to a writing target memory cell. An example of such a case will now be described hereinafter with reference to .

Ends of the NAND strings are connected to a source line SRC. The other ends of the NAND strings are connected to a bit line BL. Moreover control gates of the memory cells MC arranged in each row direction are connected to word lines WLDS WL to WL and WLDD in common respectively.

It is to be noted that gates of the selection transistors SGS to SGS may be connected to a common wiring SGS and the memory cell strings may be selected by the selection transistors SGD to SGD respectively. Additionally both the selection transistors SGS and SGD may be formed of memory cell transistors having the same MONOS structure as those of the memory cells respectively.

In the memory cell array having such a configuration based on the first program sequence writing is executed in the memory cells in the order of 1 2 3 and 4 as shown in . Then based on the second program sequence writing is again executed in the memory cells in the order of 1 2 3 and 4 .

Further in accordance with the first program sequence writing is executed in the memory cells in the order of 5 6 7 and 8 . Subsequently in accordance with the second program sequence writing is again executed in the memory cells in the order of 5 6 7 and 8 .

Furthermore as a different writing order in accordance with the first program sequence writing is again executed in the memory cells in the order of 1 2 3 and 4 as shown in . Then in accordance with the first program sequence wiring is executed in the memory cells in the order of 5 6 7 and 8 . Thereafter in accordance with the second program sequence writing is again executed in the memory cells in the order of 1 2 3 and 4 . Then in accordance with the first program sequence writing is executed in the memory cells in the order of 9 10 11 and 12 . Subsequently in accordance with the second program sequence writing is again executed in the memory cells in the order of 5 6 7 and 8 .

Moreover to alleviate read disturbance when the selection transistors SGS must be divided like the selection transistors SGD to SGD but processing is difficult the selection transistors SGS are formed of depression type D type indicated by D and enhancement type E type indicated by E transistors.

For example in case of selecting the NAND string NS an L level voltage that turns on the D type of the selection transistor SGS and turns off the E type of the same is applied and an H level voltage that turns on both the D type and the E type is applied to the selection transistors SGS to SGS thereby selecting the NAND string NS alone.

In case of selecting the NAND string NS the L level voltage that turns on the D type of the selection transistor SGS and turns off the E type of the same is applied and the H level voltage that turns on both the D type and the E type is applied to the selection transistors SGS SGS and SGS thereby selecting the NAND string NS alone.

Likewise in case of selecting the NAND string NS alone the L level voltage can be applied to the selection transistor SGS and the H level voltage can be applied to the selection transistors SGS SGS and SGS thereby selecting the NAND string NS alone. In case of selecting the NAND string NS the L level voltage can be applied to the selection transistor SGS and the H level voltage can be applied to the selection transistors SGS to SGS thereby selecting the NAND string NS alone.

It is to be noted that in this example the second write operation in the modification of the first embodiment or the second embodiment may be carried out in place of the second program sequence represented by b in .

After performing writing to provide data c represented by b in a step S reading is carried out with respect to memory cells having data a b and c with the use of read voltage levels A R B R and C R respectively steps S S and S .

Subsequently whether memory cells corresponding to data stored in the program buffer exceed a verify voltage level is determined. That is whether the number of data latch circuits LDL set to 1 is a specified number or more is determined a step S . If the number of the data latch circuits LDL set to 1 is the specified number or more the second program sequence is terminated.

On the other hand if the number of the data latch circuits LDL set to 1 is less than the specified number a write voltage Vpgm is slightly increased step up the processing returns to a step S and writing of the step S and subsequent processing are executed.

Consequently the write operation and a write verify operation are alternately repeated until the program operation is normally terminated.

In the modification after end of the second program sequence in the third embodiment reading is again executed with the use of the read voltage levels A R B R and C R and the write operation and the write verify operation are again repeated if a threshold value of each memory cell has not reached a verify voltage level.

According to the third embodiment and its modification for example when the first program sequence is executed with respect to memory cells in a page or a block and then the second program sequence is executed with respect to the memory cells in the same page or block a data controller that supplies data to each data latch circuit does not have to store data of 2 bits in advance and storing data of 1 bit can suffice thus reducing a burden on a control section including the data controller.

As described above according to this embodiment during the first write operation the data latch circuit that is not used for writing after end of writing to provide a lower threshold value is used as a cache for subsequent writing. Furthermore in the additional second write operation before writing write data is restored by using data read between threshold levels of respective data and data of 1 bit generated from the write data of 2 bits and the second write operation is executed based on this restored data. Consequently before end of the second write operation the data latch circuit can be used as a cache for subsequent writing.

In the first to third embodiment the second program sequence operation is performed after the first program sequence. In the program sequence where one write operation and the write verify operation are repeated the write verify is temporarily passed on and a subsequent write voltage is supplied to a corresponding memory cell due to program Inhibit. If the memory cell turns to Fail in subsequent write verify and a subsequent write voltage is supplied rewriting can be performed with respect to the memory cell as writing.

However since a voltage value of a write voltage Vpgm is increased step by step in the repetition of the write operation and the write verify operation the write voltage Vpgm for writing is likely to be a high voltage at this moment over program may possibly occurs. Thus at the time of the rewriting an intermediate voltage can be applied to a bit line and a potential between a gate of a memory cell and a channel can be alleviated to enable writing. When the second write verify is passed on in this manner subsequent writing can be non writing. Configuring such a setting enables solving a problem of detrapping by again performing writing even if the write verify is temporarily passed on and then a threshold value Vth of a memory cell is lowered due to detrapping.

The weak erase operation shown in will now be described. The weak erase operation is executed after the first write operation and before the second write operation.

Wf represents a waveform of a selected word line. The row decoder transfers a voltage VSGD which is the same as VSGD applied to the write operation in this example but VSGD RV optimized for the weak erase operation may be used to the gate of the selection transistor ST during a period from a time ta to a time tg. Additionally the row decoder also transfers a voltage VSS to the gate of the selection transistor ST. Here since a threshold voltage of each selection transistor is approximately 1 to 2 V if VSGD 2.5 V is set the selection transistor ST enters a conductive state depending on a voltage level in its source terminal a terminal on a side connected to a memory cell and the selection transistor ST is turned off.

Further the bit line control circuit applies a voltage VDDSA e.g. 2.5 V to a bit line during a period from the time ta to a time tf. In a case where the bit line is being charged with the voltage VDDSA from the time ta when the source terminal of the selection transistor ST has a voltage raised to VSGD Vt SGD Vt SGD is a threshold voltage of the selection transistor ST the selection transistor ST enters a cutoff state.

Then the word line control circuit raises voltages of a selected word line and a non selected word line to VREAD RV during a period from a time tb to a time td. At this time since the selection transistor ST is in the cutoff state the channel is floating. Thus the channel of the memory cell is boosted by coupling with the voltage VREAD RV of the word lines WL and increased to a potential Vch VREAD RV .

Furthermore after the time td the word line control circuit keeps applying the voltage VREAD RV to the non selected word line WL and lowers a potential of the selected word line WL from the voltage VREADRV to a voltage VRV e.g. VSS 0V . Consequently a potential in a control gate of a selected memory cell becomes e.g. 0 V and a channel region of the selected memory cell has a potential Vch raised by a non selected memory cell and a large potential difference arises between them. As a result reverse stress can be applied to the selected memory cell.

A weak erase operation shown in is an example that the word line control circuit applies a voltage a negative voltage lower than the voltage VSS or a voltage lower than a source line voltage as the voltage VRV to a selected word line in the weak erase operation shown in . Other basic operation waveforms are the same as those of the weak erase operation shown in .

In the example shown in since the voltage VRV of a selected word line is set to a negative voltage at the time of applying reverse stress the reverse stress can be applied by using a channel potential Vch lower than the channel potential Vch that must be applied when the voltage VRV is the voltage VSS. Thus the voltage VREAD RV applied to a non selected word line can be set to be lower than that in case of setting the voltage VRV to the voltage VSS. Further the voltage VREAD RV can be adjusted to the voltage VREAD at the time of the write verify.

As described above according to the embodiment it is possible to provide the semiconductor memory device that can suppress an influence of a fluctuation in threshold value immediately after writing in the memory cells and can realize high speed writing.

Furthermore although the example where this embodiment is applied to the memory cells each of which can store data of 2 bits has been described the embodiment can be likewise applied to memory cells each of which can store data of n bits n is a natural number of 2 or more .

Moreover this embodiment is not restricted to the NAND flash memory and it can be applied to other general memory devices. Additionally although the respective embodiments may be solely carried out but combinable embodiments may be combined and carried out.

It is to be noted that each embodiment according to the present invention has the following characteristics.

a voltage applied to a word line selected for a read operation of a level data a falls within the range of e.g. 0 V to 0.55 V or may be set to any one of the ranges 0.1 V to 0.24 V 0.21 V to 0.31 V 0.31 V to 0.4 V 0.4 V to 0.5 V and 0.5 V to 0.55 V without being restricted to the former range 

a voltage applied to a word line selected for a read operation of a B level data b falls within the range of e.g. 1.5V to 2.3 V or may be set to any one of the ranges 1.65 V to 1.8 V 1.8 V to 1.95 V 1.95 V to 2.1 V and 2.1 V to 2.3 V without being restricted to the former range and

a voltage applied to a word line selected for a read operation of a C level data c falls within the range of e.g. 3.0 V to 4.0 V or may be set to any one of the ranges 3.0 V to 3.2 V 3.2 V to 3.4 V 3.4 V to 3.5 V 3.5 V to 3.6V and 3.6 V to 4.0 V without being restricted to the former range.

A read operation time tR may be set to fall within the range of e.g. 25 s to 38 s 38 s to 70 or 70 s 80 s.

 2 The write operation includes the program operation and the verify operation. In the write operation 

a voltage first applied to a word line selected in the program operation falls within the range of e.g. 13.7 V to 14.3 V or may be set to fall within one of the ranges of e.g. 13.7 V to 14.0 V and 14.0 V to 14.6 V without being restricted to the former range a voltage first applied to a selected word line at the time of writing data in odd numbered word lines and a voltage first applied to a selected word line at the time of writing data in even numbered word lines may be changed.

When the program operation is based on an incremental step pulse program ISPP system a step up voltage is e.g. approximately 0.5 V.

A voltage applied to a non selected word line may be set to fall within the range of e.g. 6.0 V to 7.3 V. This voltage may be also set to the range of e.g. 7.3 V to 8.4 V or may be set to 6.0 V or less without being restricted to the former case.

A path voltage to be applied may be changed depending on whether a non selected word line is an odd numbered word line or an even numbered word line.

A write operation time tProg may be set fall within the range of e.g. 1700 s to 1800 s 1800 s to 1900 s or 1900 s to 2000 s.

a voltage first applied to a well that is formed in a semiconductor substrate upper portion and has the memory cells arranged thereabove falls within the range of e.g. 12 V to 13.6 V. This voltage may be set to the range of e.g. 1.6 V to 14.8 V 14.8 V to 19.0 V 19.0 V to 19.8 V or 19.8 V to 21 V without being restricted to the former case.

An erase operation time tErase may be set to a period of e.g. 3000 s to 4000 s 4000 s to 5000 s or 4000 s to 9000 s.

a charge storage layer arranged on the semiconductor substrate a silicon substrate through a tunnel insulating film having a film thickness of 4 to 10 nm. This charge storage layer may be formed into a lamination structure of an insulating film of e.g. SiN or SiON having a film thickness of 2 to 3 nm and polysilicon. Further a metal such as Ru may be added to the polysilicon. The charge storage layer has an insulating film thereon. This insulating film has a silicon oxide film having a film thickness of 4 to 10 nm that is sandwiched between a lower High k film having a film thickness of 3 to 10 nm and an upper High k film having a film thickness of 3 to 10 nm. The High k film is made of e.g. HfO. Furthermore the film thickness of the silicon oxide film may be set to be larger than the film thickness of the High k film. A control electrode having a film thickness of 30 nm to 70 nm is formed on the insulating film through a work function adjusting material having a film thickness of 3 to 10 nm. Here the work function adjusting material is e.g. a metal oxide film of TaO or the like or a metal nitride film of TaN or the like. W and the like can be used for the control electrode.

While certain embodiments have been described these embodiments have been presented by way of example only and are not intended to limit the scope of the inventions. Indeed the novel methods and systems described herein may be embodied in a variety of other forms furthermore various omissions substitutions and changes in the form of the methods and systems described herein may be made without departing from the spirit of the inventions. The accompanying claims and their equivalents are intended to cover such forms or modifications as would fall within the scope and spirit of the inventions.

