---

title: Single microstructure lens, systems and methods
abstract: Systems and methods for providing enhanced image quality across a wide and extended range of foci encompass vision treatment techniques and ophthalmic lenses such as contact lenses and intraocular lenses (IOLs). Exemplary IOL optics can include a circular surface structure which acts as a diffractive or phase shifting profile. In some cases, a single ring IOL includes an anterior face and a posterior face, where a profile can be imposed on the anterior or posterior surface or face. The profile can have an inner portion such as a microstructure or central echelette, and an outer portion. Between the inner portion and the outer portion, there may be a transition zone that connects the inner and outer portions.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09581834&OS=09581834&RS=09581834
owner: AMO Groningen B.V.
number: 09581834
owner_city: Groningen
owner_country: NL
publication_date: 20150105
---
This application is a continuation application and claims priority to U.S. application Ser. No. 13 872 784 entitled Single Microstructure Lens Systems and Methods filed on Apr. 29 2013 which is a continuation application and claims priority to U.S. application Ser. No. 12 971 506 entitled Single Microstructure Lens Systems and Methods filed on Dec. 17 2010 which claims priority under 35 U.S.C 119 e to provisional application No. 61 288 255 filed on Dec. 18 2009 the entire contents of which are incorporated herein by reference. This application is related to the following applications which were filed concurrently herewith Limited Echelette Lens Systems And Methods U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 971 607 filed on Dec. 17 2010 Ophthalmic Lens Systems And Methods With Angular Varying Phase Delay U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 971 889 filed on Dec. 17 2010 and Ophthalmic Lens Systems And Methods Having At Least One Rotationally Asymmetric Diffractive Structure U.S. Patent Application No. 61 424 433 filed on Dec. 17 2010. The entire contents of these three applications are also incorporated herein by reference. This application is also related to the following U.S. Patent Application No. 61 047 699 and Ser. No. 12 109 251 both filed on Apr. 24 2008 Ser. No. 12 429 155 filed on Apr. 23 2009 Ser. No. 12 372 573 filed on Feb. 17 2009 Ser. No. 12 197 249 filed on Aug. 23 2008 Ser. No. 12 120 201 filed on Apr. 13 2008 and Ser. No. 12 771 550 filed on Apr. 30 2010.

Embodiments of the present invention relate to vision treatment techniques and in particular to ophthalmic lenses such as for example contact lenses corneal inlays or onlays or intraocular lenses IOLs including for example phakic IOLs and piggyback IOLs i.e. IOLs implanted in an eye already having an IOL .

Presbyopia is a condition that affects the accommodation properties of the eye. As objects move closer to a young properly functioning eye the effects of ciliary muscle contraction and zonular relaxation allow the lens of the eye to change shape and thus increase its optical power and ability to focus at near distances. This accommodation can allow the eye to focus and refocus between near and far objects.

Presbyopia normally develops as a person ages and is associated with a natural progressive loss of accommodation. The presbyopic eye often loses the ability to rapidly and easily refocus on objects at varying distances. The effects of presbyopia usually become noticeable after the age of 45 years. By the age of 65 years the crystalline lens has often lost almost all elastic properties and has only a limited ability to change shape.

Along with reductions in accommodation of the eye age may also induce clouding of the lens due to the formation of a cataract. A cataract may form in the hard central nucleus of the lens in the softer peripheral cortical portion of the lens or at the back of the lens. Cataracts can be treated by the replacement of the cloudy natural lens with an artificial lens. An artificial lens replaces the natural lens in the eye with the artificial lens often being referred to as an intraocular lens or IOL .

Monofocal IOLs are intended to provide vision correction at one distance only usually the far focus. Predicting the most appropriate IOL power for implantation has limited accuracy and an inappropriate IOL power can leave patients with residual refraction errors following surgery. Accordingly it may be necessary for a patient who has received an IOL implant to also wear spectacles to achieve good far vision. At the very least since a monofocal IOL provides vision treatment at only one distance and since the typical correction is for far distance spectacles are usually needed for good near and sometimes intermediate vision. The term near vision generally corresponds to vision provided when objects are at a distance from the subject eye of between about 1 to 2 feet are substantially in focus on the retina of the eye. The term distant vision generally corresponds to vision provided when objects at a distance of at least about 6 feet or greater are substantially in focus on the retina of the eye. The term intermediate vision corresponds to vision provided when objects at a distance of about 2 feet to about 5 feet from the subject eye are substantially in focus on the retina of the eye.

There have been various attempts to address limitations associated with monofocal IOLs. For example multifocal IOLs have been proposed that deliver in principle two foci one near and one far optionally with some degree of intermediate focus. Such multifocal or bifocal IOLs are intended to provide good vision at two distances and include both refractive and diffractive multifocal IOLs. In some instances a multifocal IOL intended to correct vision at two distances may provide a near add power of about 3.0 or 4.0 diopters.

Multifocal IOLs may for example rely on a diffractive optical surface to direct portions of the light energy toward differing focal distances thereby allowing the patient to clearly see both near and far objects. Multifocal ophthalmic lenses including contact lenses or the like have also been proposed for treatment of presbyopia without removal of the natural crystalline lens. Diffractive optical surfaces either monofocal or multifocal may also be configured to provide reduced chromatic aberration.

Diffractive monofocal and multifocal lenses can make use of a material having a given refractive index and a surface curvature which provide a refractive power. Diffractive lenses have a diffractive profile which confers the lens with a diffractive power that contributes to the overall optical power of the lens. The diffractive profile is typically characterized by a number of diffractive zones. When used for ophthalmic lenses these zones are typically annular lens zones or echelettes spaced about the optical axis of the lens. Each echelette may be defined by an optical zone a transition zone between the optical zone and an optical zone of an adjacent echelette and an echelette geometry. The echelette geometry includes an inner and outer diameter and a shape or slope of the optical zone a height or step height and a shape of the transition zone. The surface area or diameter of the echelettes largely determines the diffractive power s of the lens and the step height of the transition between echelettes largely determines the light distribution between the different add powers. Together these echelettes form a diffractive profile.

A multifocal diffractive profile of the lens may be used to mitigate presbyopia by providing two or more optical powers for example one for near vision and one for far vision. The lenses may also take the form of an intraocular lens placed within the capsular bag of the eye replacing the original lens or placed in front of the natural crystalline lens. The lenses may also be in the form of a contact lens most commonly a bifocal contact lens or in any other form mentioned herein.

Although multifocal ophthalmic lenses lead to improved quality of vision for many patients additional improvements would be beneficial. For example some pseudophakic patients experience undesirable visual effects dysphotopsia e.g. glare or halos. Halos may arise when light from the unused focal image creates an out of focus image that is superimposed on the used focal image. For example if light from a distant point source is imaged onto the retina by the distant focus of a bifocal IOL the near focus of the IOL will simultaneously superimpose a defocused image on top of the image formed by the distant focus. This defocused image may manifest itself in the form of a ring of light surrounding the in focus image and is referred to as a halo. Another area of improvement revolves around the typical bifocality of multifocal lenses. Since multifocal ophthalmic lenses typically provide for near and far vision intermediate vision may be compromised.

A lens with an extended depth of focus may thus provide certain patients the benefits of good vision at a range of distances while having reduced or no dysphotopsia. Various techniques for extending the depth of focus of an IOL have been proposed. For example some approaches are based on a bulls eye refractive principle and involve a central zone with a slightly increased power. Other techniques include an asphere or include refractive zones with different refractive zonal powers.

Although certain proposed treatments may provide some benefit to patients in need thereof further advances would be desirable. For example it would be desirable to provide improved IOL systems and methods that confer enhanced image quality across a wide and extended range of foci without dysphotopsia. Embodiments of the present invention provide solutions that address the problems described above and hence provide answers to at least some of these outstanding needs.

Embodiments of the present invention generally provide improved lenses and imaging techniques. Exemplary embodiments provide improved ophthalmic lenses such as for example contact lenses corneal inlays or onlays or intraocular lenses IOLs including for example phakic IOLs and piggyback IOLs and associated methods for their design and use.

Embodiments of the present invention encompass IOL optics having a singular circular surface structure which acts as a phase shifting profile. The profile is designed such that it increases the depth of focus of the pseudophakic eye where the natural crystalline lens of the eye is substituted with a synthetic lens. Such a singular IOL technique suppresses the distinct bifocality associated with traditional multifocal IOLs which have many diffractive rings. Consequently dysphotopsia e.g. halo effects associated with traditional multifocal IOLs can be alleviated by lenses according to embodiments of the present invention.

An exemplary single ring IOL includes an anterior face and a posterior face. A profile can be imposed on the anterior or posterior surface or face. The profile can have an inner portion and an outer portion. The inner portion typically presents a parabolic curved shape. The inner portion may also be referred to as a microstructure an isolated echelette or a central echelette. Between the inner portion and the outer portion there may be a transition zone that connects the inner and outer portions.

In addition to parabolic shapes the central echelette can have any of a variety of shapes including hyperbolic spherical aspheric and sinusoidal. The transition between the inner and outer portions of the echelette can be a sharp transition or it can be a smooth transition.

The surface of the outer portion at the outside of the microstructure can have any spherical or aspherical shape. The shape of the outer portion can be optimized for having the desired optical performance for a range of pupil sizes. The desired optical performance can be based on elements such as the depth of focus the optical quality in the far focus and the change in best focus or far focus position as a function of the pupil size. Optimization rules may be applied as if the shape were a refractive monofocal IOL or a refractive IOL having an extended depth of focus or a refractive design that corrects or modifies the ocular spherical aberration. Specific designs can be made in which the interplay between the central echelette and the outer zone is incorporated in the design or optimization. The techniques described herein are well suited for implementation with any of a variety of ophthalmic lenses including IOLs corneal inlays or onlays and or contact lenses.

In one aspect embodiments of the present invention encompass ophthalmic lens systems and methods for treating an eye of a patient. An exemplary lens may include an anterior face with an anterior refractive profile and a posterior face with a posterior refractive profile. The faces may be disposed about an optical axis. The lens may also include a diffractive profile imposed on the anterior refractive profile on the posterior refractive profile or on both. In an exemplary embodiment a diffractive profile may include no more than one echelette. Optionally the echelette can be disposed within a central zone of the lens. Relatedly the echelette may be positioned as an annulus surrounding a central refractive zone of the lens. In some cases the lens includes a peripheral zone that surrounds the echelette or annular ring. The echelette may be characterized by a constant phase shift.

According to some embodiments an ophthalmic lens can include an echelette that is characterized by a parabolic curve. An echelette can have a diameter within a range from about 1 mm to about 4 mm. For example an echelette may have a diameter of about 1.5 mm. In some cases an echelette can have a diameter within a range from about 1.0 mm to about 5.0 mm. The echelette can have a surface area that is between 1 and 7 mm. Preferably the echelette can have a surface area that is between 1.5 and 4 mm. For example the echelette may have a surface area that is 2.3 mm.

Lens embodiments may include a peripheral portion characterized by a spherical curve or an aspherical curve. In some cases the peripheral portion can be refractive. A lens may include a peripheral portion having an outer diameter within a range from about 4 mm to about 7 mm. For example a lens may include a peripheral portion having an outer diameter of about 5 mm.

A lens may include a transition characterized by a step height having a value within a range from about 0.5 m and about 4 m. According to some embodiments a transition can be characterized by a step height having a value within a range of about 1.5 m and 2.5 m. According to some embodiments a transition can be characterized by a step height having a value of about 1.7 m. In other embodiments the step height may have a value of about 2.0 m.

The extended depth of focus may be based on a relative threshold over a range of foci. For instance image quality may be presented by the volume under the white light MTF curve as a percentage of the volume under the white light diffraction limited MTF MTF volume . In some cases a lens can provide an MTF volume of at least about 35 throughout a continuous range from about 1.25 D to about 0.25 D for a 2.0 mm pupil. In other words a lens can provide an MTF volume of at least 35 over a continuous range of at least about 1.5 D. Certain embodiments of the present invention provide for an MTF volume of at least 35 over a continuous range of at least about 0.75 D. Other embodiments can provide an MTF volume of at least 35 over a continuous range of at least about 1.0 D. More preferably embodiments can provide an MTF volume of at least 35 over a continuous range of at least 1.25 D. In some cases a lens can provide an MTF at 50 cycles per millimeter of at least 15 over a continuous range of at least about 1.5 D. Certain embodiments provide an MTF at 50 cycles per millimeter of at least 15 over a continuous range of at least 1.0 D. In other cases a lens can provide an MTF at 100 cycles per millimeter of at least 7 over a range of at least about 1.8 D. Certain embodiments provide an MTF at 100 cycles per millimeter of at least 7 over a continuous range of at least 1.5 D.

In some cases a diffractive profile can be characterized by a design wavelength and a lens can include a transition characterized by a step height producing a phase shift between about 0.25 and about 1 times the design wavelength. In some cases a diffractive profile can be characterized by a design wavelength and the lens can include a transition characterized by a step height producing a phase shift between about 0.15 and about 2 times the design wavelength. According to some embodiments the lens may include a transition characterized by a step height producing a phase shift of about 0.5. In other embodiments the lens may include a transition characterized by a step height of about 0.4.

In another aspect embodiments of the present invention encompass systems and methods that involve an ophthalmic lens having a diffractive primary zone that presents a base diffractive surface having a purely optical function and a refractive peripheral zone that surrounds the diffractive primary zone. An ophthalmic lens may also include a transition zone that physically connects the diffractive primary zone with the refractive peripheral zone. The transition zone may optionally provide optical characteristics.

For a fuller understanding of the nature and advantages of the present invention reference should be had to the ensuing detailed description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings.

For illustration purposes the profile geometries shown in certain aforementioned figures were not drawn exactly to scale. The heights of the profiles shown in the figures are generally on the order of about 0.5 m to about 8.0 m although the heights may vary depending on factors such as the amount of correction needed by the patient the refractive index of the lens material and surrounding medium and the desired phase shift delay.

It is to be understood that the figures and descriptions of the present invention have been simplified to illustrate elements that are relevant for a clear understanding of the present invention while eliminating for the purpose of clarity and brevity many other elements found in typical ophthalmic lenses implantable optic apparatuses systems and methods. Those of ordinary skill in the art may thus recognize that other elements and or steps are desirable and or required in implementing the present invention. However because such elements and steps are well known in the art and because they do not facilitate a better understanding of the present invention a discussion of such elements and steps is not provided herein. The disclosure herein is directed to all such variations and modifications to the disclosed elements and methods known to those skilled in the art.

Embodiments of the present invention encompass systems and methods that provide improved image quality over an extended range of focal points or foci. Systems and methods disclosed herein can encompass various ophthalmic lenses such as for example contact lenses intraocular lenses spectacle lenses and corneal inlays or onlays. Exemplary embodiments include ophthalmic lenses having an extended depth of focus as compared to conventional monofocal lenses and reduced dysphotopsia as compared to conventional multifocal ophthalmic lenses. In some cases such techniques involve an IOL approach that includes a single ring or echelette and typically involves an expanded depth of focus. Advantageously such approaches can provide a patient with good distance vision as well as good vision at intermediate distances without dysphotopsia.

Embodiments of the present invention generally provide improved lenses and imaging systems and may be incorporated into any system in which a lens with an extended depth of focus may be advantageous such as camera video lenses including those used for surveillance or for surgical procedures as well as for cameras in mobile phones or other related devices. Embodiments of the invention may find their most immediate use in the form of improved ophthalmic devices systems and methods. Exemplary embodiments of the present invention provide improved ophthalmic lenses including for example contact lenses intraocular lenses IOLs corneal implants and the like and associated methods for their design and use. Embodiments of the present invention may be used with monofocal diffractive or refractive lenses bifocal diffractive or refractive lenses and multifocal diffractive or refractive lenses e.g. embodiments of the present invention could be added to the opposite surface of multifocal IOLs e.g. TECNIS Multifocal REZOOM or RESTOR IOLs. In other words an extended depth of focus feature may be added to for example the opposite surface of a diffractive or refractive multifocal embodiment. In addition an extended depth of focus feature may be added to for example a toric IOL an IOL that modifies ocular spherical and or chromatic aberration and or an accommodating IOL. In general an extended depth of focus feature may be added to an IOL that modifies ocular aberrations.

Reading is often done in bright light conditions in which the pupil is small. In contrast night time driving is done in low light conditions in which the pupil is large. Embodiments of the present invention encompass lenses that relatively emphasize intermediate or near vision for small pupil sizes while also relatively emphasizing far vision for large pupil sizes. In some such ophthalmic lenses a greater proportion of light energy may be transmitted to the far focus from a peripheral portion of the lens to accommodate for low light far viewing conditions such as night time driving the near or intermediate focus may receive relatively more light energy than a central portion of the diffractive profile for reading or computer work for example and or to provide depth of focus and intermediate or near viewing under low light reading conditions as in for example reading restaurant menus.

Each major face of lens including the anterior front surface and posterior back surface generally has a refractive profile e.g. biconvex plano convex plano concave meniscus etc. The two surfaces together in relation to the properties of the surrounding aqueous humor cornea and other optical components of the overall optical system define the effects of the lens on the imaging performance by eye E. Conventional monofocal IOLs have a refractive power based on the refractive index of the material from which the lens is made and also on the curvature or shape of the front and rear surfaces or faces of the lens.

In a young healthy eye contraction and relaxation of ciliary muscles surrounding the capsular bag contribute to accommodation of the eye the process by which the eye increases optical power to maintain focus on objects as they move closer. As a person ages the degree of accommodation decreases and presbyopia the diminished ability to focus on near objects often results. A patient may therefore conventionally use corrective optics having two optical powers one for near vision and one for far vision as provided by multifocal IOL .

Multifocal lenses may optionally also make special use of the refractive properties of the lens. Such lenses generally include different powers in different regions of the lens so as to mitigate the effects of presbyopia. For example as shown in a perimeter region of refractive multifocal lens may have a power which is suitable for viewing at far viewing distances. The same refractive multifocal lens may also include an inner region having a higher surface curvature and a generally higher overall power sometimes referred to as a positive add power suitable for viewing at near distances.

Rather than relying entirely on the refractive properties of the lens multifocal diffractive IOLs or contact lenses can also have a diffractive power as illustrated by the IOL shown in . The diffractive power can for example comprise positive or negative add power and that add power may be a significant or even the primary contributor to the overall optical power of the lens. The diffractive power is conferred by a plurality of concentric diffractive zones which form a diffractive profile. The diffractive profile may either be imposed on the anterior face or posterior face or both.

The diffractive profile of a diffractive multifocal lens directs incoming light into a number of diffraction orders. As light enters from the front of the eye the multifocal lens directs light to form a far field focus on retina for viewing distant objects and a near field focus for viewing objects close to the eye. Depending on the distance from the source of light the focus on retina may be the near field focus instead. Typically far field focus is associated with 0diffractive order and near field focus is associated with the 1diffractive order although other orders may be used as well.

Multifocal ophthalmic lens typically distributes the majority of light energy into the two viewing orders often with the goal of splitting imaging light energy about evenly 50 50 one viewing order corresponding to far vision and one viewing order corresponding to near vision although typically some fraction goes to non viewing orders.

In some embodiments corrective optics may be provided by phakic IOLs which can be used to treat patients while leaving the natural lens in place. Phakic IOLs may be angle supported iris supported or sulcus supported. The phakic IOL can be placed over the natural crystalline lens or piggy backed over another IOL. It is also envisioned that the present invention may be applied to inlays onlays accommodating IOLs spectacles and even laser vision correction

When fitted onto the eye of a subject or patient the optical axis of lens is generally aligned with the optical axis of eye E. The curvature of lens gives lens an anterior refractive profile and a posterior refractive profile. Although a diffractive profile may also be imposed on either anterior face and posterior face or both shows posterior face with a diffractive profile. The diffractive profile is characterized by a plurality of annular optical zones or echelettes spaced about optical axis . While analytical optics theory generally assumes an infinite number of echelettes a standard multifocal diffractive IOL typically has at least 9 echelettes and may have over 30 echelettes. For the sake of clarity shows only 4 echelettes. Typically an IOL is biconvex or possibly plano convex or convex concave although an IOL could be plano plano or other refractive surface combinations.

As shown in transition zone between adjacent echelettes is sharp and discontinuous. The height of the lens face sharply transitions from sloping steadily downwards to stepping vertically upwards and the transitions abruptly back to sloping steadily downwards again. In doing so echelettes also have a characteristic step height defined by the distance between the lowest point and height point of the echelette. Hence the slope or first derivative and or the curvature second derivative of the diffractive surface are discontinuous adjacent the transitions.

As shown in the surface height or sag d from a reference plane perpendicular to the optical axis of each point on the lens profile is plotted against the radial distance r from the optical axis of the lens. As shown here the value of displacement or total sag d can have a value within a range from about 0 mm to about 0.07 mm. The total sag can depend on the refractive shape of the surface and can have a value for an IOL of typically between 0 mm and about 2 mm or to about minus 2 mm in cases where the surface is concave.

Inner portion or echelette includes a center and a peripheral edge . At center or central section of inner portion the sag d of inner portion is substantially equivalent to the displacement or sag d of peripheral curve . At peripheral edge the sag d of inner portion is substantially equivalent to the sag d of diffractive base curve . Where radial distance r is zero sag d of inner portion is equivalent to the value of the peripheral curve . The value of sag d between radial distance zero and radial distance at the peripheral edge for example at 1.5 mm gradually and smoothly changes from the value of peripheral curve at r 0 to diffractive base curve at r 1.5 mm in a parabolic fashion. As shown here inner portion can present a parabolic shape for example as described in Equation 4a of Cohen Applied Optics 31 19 pp. 3750 3754 1992 incorporated herein by reference. It is understood that in some instances inner portion may present any of a variety of shapes or profiles including hyperbolic shapes spherical shapes aspheric and sinusoidal shapes. The shape of inner portion can be imposed on a refractive shape.

At the peripheral edge where the radial distance r is 1.5 mm the value of sag d steps or changes from the value of diffractive base curve to the value of peripheral curve . Where radial distance r corresponds to transition sag d of inner portion is equivalent to the value of the diffractive base curve . Relatedly the displacement of the profile approaches that of the peripheral curve as the radial distance increases from a value of zero to a value of about 1.5 mm. The value of the offset can be determined along the vertical axis. The offset value may be selected depending on the amount of phase delay. According to one embodiment the inner portion and the outer portion may not end up at the same vertical height at position . One way to connect these two endpoints is by using a straight vertical line. As shown here the diffractive transition step provides a sharp step in the profile. In some cases the transition is characterized by a step height having a value within a range from about 0.5 m and about 4 m. According to some embodiments a transition can be characterized by a step height having a value within a range of about 1.5 m and 2.5 m.

Outer portion includes an inner or central edge and a peripheral edge . At inner edge the sag d of outer portion is substantially equivalent to the sag d of peripheral curve . At peripheral edge the sag d of outer portion remains substantially equivalent to the sag d of peripheral curve . The value of sag d for the outer portion of profile between radial distance 1.5 mm and radial distance 3.0 mm is equivalent to the value of peripheral curve . The sag of the profile and the peripheral curve are approximately equivalent between radial distance values of 1.5 mm and 3.0 mm. As shown here outer portion can provide a normal spherical or aspherical curve such as a Tecnis aspheric surface which corrects or treats the ocular spherical aberration. For a more detailed description of the Tecnis IOL see U.S. Pat. No. 7 615 073 the content of which is incorporated herein by reference. Virtually any aspheric profile may be used. In some cases a Tecnis profile or an aspherical surface that modifies reduces or increases the ocular spherical aberration can be used. A refractive multifocal surface can also be used or a refractive aspherical or zonal refractive surface that extends the depth of focus. The diffractive multifocal may be on the opposite side.

As compared with lenses having a plurality of echelettes and where step height increases or decreases as radial distance increases embodiments of the present invention encompass lens configurations where such step configurations are absent.

The size of the human pupil varies with illumination. In bright light the pupil is small and in dim or low light conditions the pupil is large. In addition the size of the human pupil varies with accommodative effort. Without accommodative effort the pupil is larger than with accommodative effort. Hence for a smaller pupil it may be desirable to provide a design that places a relative emphasis on intermediate or near vision. For a larger pupil it may be desirable to provide a design that places a relative emphasis on far vision. Such considerations may affect IOL design.

The condition of dysphotopsia e.g. halos that is present for multifocal lenses is observed to be dominated by separation of two foci. Accordingly pursuant to exemplary embodiments of the present invention the lens may include only a single microstructure ring so that light separation between distinct foci is not complete as compared to diffractive multifocal IOLs having multiple echelettes.

In typical reading or near vision conditions where the light is bright the size of the pupil is small e.g. between about 1 mm and 2 mm in diameter and the eye has a large depth of focus for example from a pinhole effect almost irrespective of the optics of the IOL. Large pupil size e.g. larger than about 4 5 mm in diameter generally applies to low light conditions and is often associated with distance vision for which the power of the IOL is typically established. Therefore many patients would benefit most from an IOL that enhances the depth of focus in order to view at intermediate distances. An IOL having a single echelette or ring effectively increases the depth of focus for intermediate pupil sizes while maintaining the general increased depth of focus of small pupil sizes and also maintaining an emphasis on far vision for large pupil sizes. At the same time since the single echelette and the remaining surface area of the optic or remaining lens portion non echelette have unequal surface areas for almost all pupil sizes there is an incomplete split between the foci. Since the split of light is incomplete the separation of foci is incomplete. This incomplete separation of foci contributes to the extended depth of focus and the attenuation of dysphotopsia e.g. halos .

As shown in transition zone between the optical zone and the outer zone can be sharp and discontinuous. Similarly a vertical transition between central portion or echelette and peripheral portion or refractive zone can be sharp and discontinuous. The height of the lens face sharply transitions from sloping steadily downwards e.g. across optical zone to stepping vertically upwards e.g. at transition zone and the transitions abruptly back to sloping steadily or substantially horizontal. In doing so echelette or optical zone also has a characteristic step height defined by the distance between the lowest point and highest point of the echelette. Hence the slope or first derivative and or the curvature second derivative of the diffractive surface are discontinuous adjacent the transition. The first derivative can be indicated by the direction of the lines and the second derivative can be indicated by the curve of the line.

According to some embodiments light comes from below in the direction indicated by arrow A and only hits the echelette of the profile. According to some embodiments in theoretical terms light does not hit the vertical connection of the optical zone and hence the profile can be said to have no transition zone. According to some embodiments in practice when one attempts to produce such a profile for instance by lathe cutting it may be difficult to reproduce the sharp corner e.g. at where the optical zone connects with the adjacent optical zone and hence the corner may be rounded to some extent due to the finite chisel radius. Such rounding may have a negligible effect on the optical performance. According to related embodiments transition zone which can be referred to as the transition from the echelette to the adjacent zone or zones can be shaped in a specific way so as to optimize the optical performance for example to minimize scatter from a sharp transition.

According to some embodiments a central portion can be defined as an echelette and a peripheral portion can be defined as a refractive zone.

As shown in transition zone between the echelette and the adjacent zone may not be sharp and discontinuous. The height of the lens face can smoothly transition. In addition echelette or central portion can have a characteristic profile height and peripheral portion can have a characteristic profile height defined by the distance between the lowest point and height point of the echelette or portion. Hence illustrates that the central echelette may be of another shape that there may be a transition zone that the phase offset height at may be different from the phase offset height of the central zone and that the outer or peripheral zone may have an alternative aspherical shape.

The inner portion or echelette includes a center and a peripheral edge . At center or central section of inner portion where radial distance is zero the sag d of inner portion is between the sag d of the diffractive base curve and the sag d of the peripheral curve at 1.03 m from the peripheral curve corresponding with a phase delay of 0.25 lambda see table 2 . At peripheral edge the sag d of inner portion is substantially equivalent to the sag d of diffractive base curve at 13.8 m. The value of sag d between radial distance zero and radial distance at the peripheral edge at 0.61 mm gradually and smoothly changes from 1.03 m at r 0 to the value of the base curve at r 0.61 mm which is 13.8 m. This change occurs in a parabolic fashion. As shown here inner portion can present a parabolic shape for example as described in Equation 4a of Cohen Applied Optics 31 19 pp. 3750 3754 1992 incorporated herein by reference.

At the peripheral edge where the radial distance r is 0.61 mm the value of sag d steps or changes from the value of diffractive base curve to the value of peripheral curve . Where radial distance r corresponds to transition sag d of inner portion is equivalent to the value of the diffractive base curve . Relatedly the displacement of the profile approaches that of the diffractive base curve as the radial distance increases from a value of zero to a value of about 0.61 mm. The stepheight is 2.05 m resulting in a phase delay of 0.5.

The outer portion includes an inner or central edge and a peripheral edge not shown . At inner edge the sag d of outer portion is substantially equivalent to the sag d of peripheral curve . At peripheral edge the sag d of outer portion remains substantially equivalent to the sag d of peripheral curve . The value of sag d for the outer portion of profile between radial distance 0.61 mm and the peripheral portion at radial distance 2.5 mm is equivalent to the value of peripheral curve . The sag of the profile and the peripheral curve are approximately equivalent between radial distance values of 0.61 mm and 2.5 mm. Outer portion can provide a normal spherical or aspherical curve such as a Tecnis aspheric surface which corrects or treats the ocular spherical aberration.

The profile design can be characterized in terms of a set of parameters. Conventional multifocal lenses having a plurality of echelettes are typically characterized by the parameters add power and light distribution. For example the single echelette of a profile can be described as reflecting a lens add power and a light distribution as discussed in more detail below . As discussed in previously incorporated U.S. Patent Application No. 61 047 699 and Ser. No. 12 109 251 both filed Apr. 24 2008 lens add power can be based on the diameter or radial position or location of a profile echelette and light distribution can be based on the relative height of an echelette.

In conventional diffractive IOLs the diameter or size or width or surface area of the echelette is related to the diffractive power of the lens. As such variations of the geometry of the single echelette design disclosed herein have been characterized according to conventional diffractive IOL design in terms of add power. In particular the radius of the single echelette embodiments disclosed herein are equivalent to the inner radius of conventional diffractive IOLs with the same add power. As one skilled in the art knows the add power would not necessarily describe the optical characteristics of the single echelette embodiments disclosed herein. According to some embodiments the diffractive power of the lens has a value within a range from about 0.5 diopters to about 3.0 diopters representing the echelette radius and diameter as detailed in Table 1 below. Table 1 provides dimensions of various samples where D represents the power in diopters R represents the radius of the ring or echelette in mm and De represents the diameter of the ring in millimeters. In alternative embodiments the single echelette is an annulus around or within a refractive surface. In such case a translation between diffractive power and echelette size is represented by the surface area of the echelette. Table 1 provides dimensions for surface areas of the echelette.

The step height or profile height can determine the phase delay or phase shifting profile. A greater step height can correspond to a greater phase shift. In conventional diffractive IOLs the phase shift is related to the light distribution of the lens. As such variations of the geometry of the single echelette design disclosed herein have been characterized according to conventional diffractive IOL design in terms of light distribution. As one skilled in the art knows the light distribution would not necessarily describe the optical characteristics of the single echelette embodiments disclosed herein. According to some embodiments a lens can include a transition characterized by a step height producing a phase shift between about 0.25 and about 1 times the design wavelength. In some cases a diffractive profile can be characterized by a design wavelength and the lens can include a transition characterized by a step height producing a phase shift between about 0.15 and about 2 times the design wavelength. According to some embodiments the lens may include a transition characterized by a step height producing a phase shift of about 0.5. In other embodiments the lens may include a transition characterized by a step height of about 0.4.

In terms of an echelette transition the sag at the transition increases an amount equal to the offset value. Table 2 below provides dimensions of various samples disclosing the relationship between phase delay in wavelengths and step height in m as valid for an example IOL material.

Thus in an exemplary embodiment where the lens has a power of 2.5 D with a 0.423 phase shift according to the design disclosed in the radius of the single ring would be 0.66 mm and the stepheight would be 1.74 m.

In an exemplary embodiment the single ring central or single central echelette design has an optical performance that depends on the pupil size. For very small pupils where the pupil is smaller than the size of the central echelette the echelette will act as a refractive lens having a very large depth of focus due to the pinhole effect. For higher and medium pupil sizes where the pupil covers the central echelette and a part of the outer zone the lens will act as a diffractive refractive lens with an appropriate phase shift. The size of the central echelette influences the pupil dependence of the lens. As such the size of the central echelette can be chosen depending on the pupil sizes of a specific patient. For example the pupil sizes of a patient may be measured in bright light in dim light during far vision and during near vision and in the different combinations of light level and accommodative effort. These different pupil sizes which may be defined as pupil dynamics can be used as input parameters for an optimal design of the single ring or single echelette design.

For example if a patient has a pupil diameter during near vision e.g. viewing target at close distance with high accommodative effort smaller than 2 mm having this pupil dimension with both bright and dim light then the size of the central echelette may be selected to be smaller than 2 mm e.g. outer diameter of the circular echelette of as to provide adequate near and or intermediate vision. Relatedly if a patient has a pupil diameter during near vision larger than 2 mm having this pupil dimension with both bright and dim light then the size of the central echelette may chosen 2 mm or larger as to provide adequate near and intermediate vision. In general the diameter of the central echelette can be smaller than the smallest pupil size the patient has under any condition e.g. bright dim light near far vision . For any type of pupil dynamics the size the profile and the offsets may be chosen to maximize the lens performance for that specific patient or group of patients. Generally this is a trade off between the different vision circumstances combinations of light level and accommodative effort at which the pupil of the patient is measured. Accordingly exemplary embodiments include a method of designing an ophthalmic lens comprised of utilizing pupil size measurements and based on the measurements determining the size of an isolated echelette to impose on the surface of a lens. The pupil size measurements may be based on a group of patients.

With regard to the example as shown in a number of variations have been analyzed. In these examples the central echelette has been varied in size and step height offset . As such variations of the echelette design have been characterized according to conventional diffractive IOL design in terms xD y where xD represents the add power that the echelette design represents e.g. based on echelette size and or position and step height and y represents the portion of the light directed into the first order focus. The add power and light distribution are being used herein to characterize the geometry of the central echelette. In particular the radius of the single echelette embodiments disclosed herein are equivalent to the inner radius of conventional diffractive IOLs with the same add power. Analogously the step height and associated phase delay of the single echelette embodiments disclosed herein are equivalent to the step height phase delay of conventional diffractive IOLs with the same light distribution. As one skilled in the art knows the add power and light distribution would not describe the optical characteristics of the single echelette embodiments as disclosed herein. Table 3 discloses the relationship between percentage of light between near and far focus phase delay and stepheight for the IOL material in the example.

With regard to the example as shown in a number of variations have been analyzed and the image quality versus defocus has been calculated in the ACE eye model. In order to present information about pupil dependent performance of the example designs the image analysis is carried out for pupil diameters of 2.0 mm 3.0 mm and 4.0 mm. This is depicted in and . Hence and can be considered as a single set. In this series the size of the echelette is being varied from 1.2 mm to 3.0 mm in diameter and the step height is being varied from 0.6 to 3.7 m. The echelette geometry in this series is characterized in terms xD y . The general lens configuration was an equi biconvex optic having an aspherical anterior surface and a spherical posterior surface. The single ring design was applied onto the posterior surface.

The horizontal x axis denotes the amount of defocus expressed in diopters of spectacle power. The left half of the figures corresponding to minus spectacle powers represent the situation in which the spectacle makes the eye myopic. The right half of the figure corresponding to positive spectacle power represents the situation in which the spectacle makes the eye hyperopic. The vertical y axis denotes image quality presented by the volume under the white light MTF curve as a percentage of the volume under the white light diffraction limited MTF. As such it is used as a measure of retinal image quality. The left part of the figure represents the image quality for near and intermediate vision corresponding to spectacle powers up to 2.5 D.

As illustrated an echelette design representing a 0.5 D add may provide little benefit over a regular monofocal lens. Other designs indicate some benefit by having an extended depth of focus for at least some of the pupil sizes. None of the single echelette designs although their echelette is designed as having an add power show two fully separated peaks with zero MTF Volume in between the peaks such as for the multifocal IOL shown in . Many designs although their echelette is designed as having an add power do not show two separate peaks in the defocus curve as would be typical for multifocal designs. For example while having an increased depth of focus that is the volume under the white light MTF curve is larger than zero for an increased range of defocus values demonstrate a continuous decreasing image quality when changing the defocus from zero diopter to 2.5 D. Other options show a tendency toward this behavior having only a very limited dip in the image quality between the peaks representing zero and first order focus for example those referenced in C and B C. For these examples this small dip in image quality is only present for the smaller pupil size 2.0 mm . Some options demonstrate an image quality in far vision that is independent of pupil size for example those referenced in C and A C.

The profile designs involve a single ring diffractive lens according to embodiments of the present invention. These graphical illustrations depict characteristics of image quality associated with defocus curves. can be described as one set. In this series the size of the echelette is being varied from about 1.2 mm to 1.5 mm in diameter and the step height is being varied from 0.6 to 1.7 m. The echelette geometry in this series is characterized in terms xD y . The general lens configuration was an equi biconvex optic having a Tecnis aspherical anterior surface and a spherical posterior surface. The single ring design was applied onto the posterior surface. The design profiles were assessed for a 2 mm pupil a 3 mm pupil and a 4 mm pupil. can be described as the reference.

According to some embodiments general trends as seen in the ACE model are also valid in the physical eye model. Many designs exhibit an extended depth of focus when compared to the regular monofocal IOLs. Where there is a dip in the image quality between the far and near focus for example at versus versus versus versus versus and versus the magnitude of this dip is reduced. The results indicate that these options deliver a certain image quality over a range of distances without dropping significantly at some intermediate distance.

As illustrated in the figures a lens may provide an MTF volume of at least about 35 throughout a range from about 1.25 to about 0.25 for a 2.0 mm pupil. In other words a lens can provide an MTF volume of at least 35 over a continuous range of at least about 1.5 D for a 2.0 mm pupil. Certain embodiments of the present invention provide for an MTF volume of at least 35 over a continuous range of at least about 0.75 D. Other embodiments can provide an MTF volume of at least 35 over a continuous range of at least about 1.0 D. More preferably embodiments can provide an MTF volume of at least 35 over a continuous range of at least 1.25 D.

The term single microstructure can refer to the fact that when viewed macroscopically for example as shown in just one single ring is visible on the surface. In other words there is one optical phase transition on the whole optical surface. Optionally the term single microstructure can refer to the fact that the lens has only one single echelette represented by the inner portion of the lens surface. In alternative embodiments the single echelette is an annulus around a central portion of the lens. An annulus echelette can have two phase transitions one at the inner radius of the echelette and one at the outer radius of the echelette.

IOLs such as the exemplary embodiments depicted in can be made of an acrylic material. An echelette can be placed on the posterior or anterior surface and the peripheral zone may be aspherical. The opposing surface may be aspherical e.g. correcting corneal spherical aberration .

Table 4 below provides dimensions of various samples where De represents the diameter of the ring or echelette in millimeters and stepheight represents the height of the profile in m. As in Table 3 above the single echelette design geometry is characterized in terms of conventional diffractive IOL nomenclature regarding add power and percentage of light. The lenses were tested in the ACE model using white light.

While the examples above describe a parabolic echelette an echelette and outer zone design may be configured so as to reduce the amount of light in predetermined non functional diffractive orders. Additional aspects of these features are described in previously incorporated U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 429 155 filed Apr. 23 2009. Using the same principles as set forth in the aforementioned application the amount of light in other diffractive orders can be enhanced as to aid viewing using those diffractive orders.

Embodiments of the present invention may be combined with a multifocal lens design and with that extend the depth of focus of each focus of the multifocal lens. Similarly embodiments of the present invention may be combined with an accommodating lens design by which the range of accommodation of the accommodating lens can be extended. In addition embodiments of the present invention may be combined with lenses correcting ocular aberrations like toric lenses aspherical lenses lenses correcting chromatic aberrations and the like. Embodiments for correcting chromatic aberrations may for example increase the phase delay of the echelettes by a discrete multiple of wavelengths. For example in the preceding example in which a phase delay of 0.5 was used corresponding to a stepheight of 2.05 m an alternative embodiment may have a phase delay of 1.5 corresponding to a stepheight of 6.15 m. This embodiment thus directs the first order diffraction to the far focus and the second order diffraction establishes the depth of focus at the intermediate and near range.

While the exemplary embodiments have been described in some detail by way of example and for clarity of understanding those of skill in the art will recognize that a variety of modification adaptations and changes may be employed. Hence the scope of the claims should not be limited to the description of the preferred versions contained herein.

