---

title: Mobile-device user authentication
abstract: In one embodiment, receiving a notice from a first user associated with a first mobile device indicating that the first user wishes to share information of the first user with one or more second users respectively associated with one or more second mobile devices; accessing information known about one or more users and one or more mobile devices respectively associated with the one or more users; identifying at least one candidate for the first user based on the information known about the one or more users and the one or more mobile devices; and confirming one or more of the at least one candidate as the one or more second users.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09628464&OS=09628464&RS=09628464
owner: FACEBOOK, INC.
number: 09628464
owner_city: Menlo Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150319
---
The present application is continuation of and claims priority to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 205 446 entitled Mobile Device User Authentication and filed Aug. 8 2011 the entirety of which is incorporated herein by reference.

This disclosure generally relates to mobile devices and more specifically relates to authenticating mobile device users for exchanging information and other social applications.

Mobile devices such as mobile telephones e.g. feature phones and smart phones personal digital assistants PDA and mobile computers e.g. tablet netbook and notebook computers have become prevalent in people s daily lives. Many such devices are capable of supporting a variety of functionalities. Often people carry relatively small and yet highly versatile mobile devices with them as they go through their daily lives e.g. visit different places participate in different events perform different activities etc. and these mobile devices become extremely useful tools that bring convenience and flexibility to people s lives.

This disclosure generally relates to mobile devices and more specifically relates to authenticating mobile device users for exchanging information through the mobile devices.

In particular embodiments receiving a notice from a first user associated with a first mobile device indicating that the first user wishes to share information of the first user with one or more second users respectively associated with one or more second mobile devices accessing information known about one or more users and one or more mobile devices respectively associated with the one or more users identifying at least one candidate for the first user based on the information known about the one or more users and the one or more mobile devices and confirming one or more of the at least one candidate as the one or more second users.

These and other features aspects and advantages of the disclosure are described in more detail below in the detailed description and in conjunction with the following figures.

This disclosure is now described in detail with reference to a few embodiments thereof as illustrated in the accompanying drawings. In the following description numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of this disclosure. However this disclosure may be practiced without some or all of these specific details. In other instances well known process steps and or structures have not been described in detail in order not to unnecessarily obscure this disclosure. In addition while the disclosure is described in conjunction with the particular embodiments it should be understood that this description is not intended to limit the disclosure to the described embodiments. To the contrary the description is intended to cover alternatives modifications and equivalents as may be included within the spirit and scope of the disclosure as defined by the appended claims.

Present day mobile devices such as mobile telephones e.g. feature phones and smart phones personal digital assistants PDA and mobile computers e.g. tablet netbook and notebook computers are capable of performing a variety of functionalities one of which is sending and receiving data. Even with basic low end mobile devices some form of data may be sent to or received from another device. For example a basic feature phone still has the capability of making telephone calls and thus exchanging voice data with another telephone as well as sending short text messages. A more sophisticated mobile telephone e.g. a smart phone often has the capability of exchanging digital data e.g. texts images audios videos etc. . In addition almost all mobile devices include some amount of memory e.g. internal or add on memory cards which may be used to store information or data. Again a basic feature phone still has the capability of storing contact names and telephone numbers and a more sophisticated mobile telephone has even more memory for storing various types of information.

Sometimes a group e.g. two or more of mobile device users may wish to exchange information with each other. The information may be stored locally on the mobile devices and or remotely on other devices e.g. servers or databases . For example when two people meet and become friendly with each other at a social event e.g. a party they may wish to exchange contact information e.g. names telephone numbers email addresses etc. with each other so that they can contact each other in the future. Additionally or alternatively they may wish to establish a connection in one or more social networking applications such as initiating a friend request from one user to another.

Particular embodiments enable a group of mobile device users to authenticate each other s identity and exchange information with each other using their respective mobile devices. With the above example where two people meet at a social event instead of each person verbally telling the other person his her telephone number and email address and the other person manually entering e.g. typing the telephone number and email address into his her mobile device for record keeping the two people s mobile devices may exchange their respective users contact information automatically.

In order to ensure that the information of one user is sent to the mobile device of another user who is the correct user to receive such information particular embodiments authenticate the identity of the user who is to receive the information before the information is sent.

In the example system illustrated in a number of mobile devices is coupled to a computer or communication network . Each mobile device is associated with a user . A user is not necessarily a person but may be any type of entity including a person. For example a mobile device may be associated with a business e.g. a restaurant and operated by an employee of the business on its behalf. In this case the business may be considered a user associated with the mobile device .

Mobile devices may be of different types e.g. feature or smart phones PDAs tablet or netbook computers etc. and as a result they may support different functionalities. For example some mobile devices may only have smaller black and white screens and are only able to send and receive voice data while other mobile devices may have larger color screens for displaying multimedia data e.g. texts images and videos and are able to send and receive voice as well as binary data. Particular embodiments are able to authenticate users regardless of the specific type of mobile device each user has.

Suppose that a first user associated with a first mobile device desires to send the first user s information to a second user associated with a second mobile device as illustrated in STEP of . As an example in suppose that user associated with mobile device is the first user and user associated with mobile device is the second user. Thus user wishes to send some of his her information to user . With respect to the information of user user is the sender and user is the receiver. In particular embodiments before the information of user is sent to user the identity of user is authenticated. User may or may not wish to send some of his her own information to user at the same time. If user also wishes to send some of his her information to user the identity of user is similarly authenticated before the information user is sent to user .

From the perspective of user in particular embodiments user may declare using mobile device that he she is in friendly mode and wishes to share some of his her information with another user e.g. user . In particular embodiments user may declare his her intention of sharing some of his her information with another user to a server by sending a predefined signal from mobile device to the server. From the perspective of user in particular embodiments user also needs to declare using mobile device that he she is in friendly mode in order to receive information from user and optionally to send some of his her own information to user at the same time. Similarly user may declare his her intention of sharing information with another user e.g. user to the server by sending the predefined signal from mobile device to the server. In particular embodiments the server may host a social networking system and both user and user are members of the social networking system.

A social network in general is a social structure made up of entities such as individuals or organizations that are connected by one or more types of interdependency or relationships such as friendship kinship common interest financial exchange dislike or relationships of beliefs knowledge or prestige. In more recent years social networks have taken advantage of the Internet. There are social networking systems existing on the Internet in the form of social networking websites. Such social networking websites enable their members who are commonly referred to as website users to perform various social activities. For example the social networking website operated by Facebook Inc. at www.facebook.com enables its users to communicate with their friends via emails instant messages or blog postings organize social events share photos receive news of their friends or interesting events play games etc.

In a server is also coupled to network . Server may host a social networking system implemented as a social networking website. In particular embodiments a number of data stores may be coupled to server for storing information of social networking system such as its members profiles social connections activities or any other type of information collected by social networking system . Users may all be members of social networking system . When user wishes to share some of his her information with user user may send a predefined signal to server using mobile device declaring this intention.

In particular embodiments upon receiving the friendly mode signal from mobile device server generates a unique token for user . This token has a relatively short expiration period e.g. 5 to 10 seconds . In addition server may collect or access as much information known about user and mobile device as possible either from mobile device or from information stored in data stores in connection with social networking system .

For example if mobile device has a location sensor e.g. GPS global positioning system sensor then the current location of mobile device and thus the current location of user may be determined based on the location sensor data e.g. latitude and longitude supplied by the location sensor. If mobile device is a mobile telephone then its wireless signal may be triangulated to determine the current location of mobile device and thus the current location of user . If user has checked in at an event or a place e.g. using the Facebook check in function shortly before declaring himself herself in friendly mode then the current location of user may be determined based on the information of the event or place e.g. the location of the event or place is the same as the current location of user . If the social calendar of user e.g. the social calendar provided by social networking system indicates that user is scheduled to attend an event or a social function at the time user declares himself herself in friendly mode the location of the event or social function may be the current location of user .

In particular embodiments when user declares himself herself in friendly mode the identity e.g. user ID identifier of user may be sent to server at the same time. Based on this user ID server may access social information contained in social networking system relevant to user . In particular embodiments all the information of social networking system may be organized into a social graph having a number of nodes and a number of edges where each edge connects two nodes. Each node may represent an entity which may be human e.g. a user of social networking system or non human e.g. location event action business object message post image web page news feed etc. . Two nodes are connected with an edge if the two nodes are related in some way i.e. there is a relationship between the two nodes . Example cases when two nodes in the social graph are considered related and thus connected with an edge may include without limitation 1 the two nodes represent two users of social networking system respectively and the two users are socially connected e.g. friends of each other 2 the two nodes represent a user of social networking system and an event respectively and the user has attended or is attending the event 3 the two nodes represent a user of social networking system and a location and the user has been to the location 4 the two nodes represent a user of social networking system and a web page respectively and the user has interacted with e.g. viewed the web page 5 the two nodes represent an event and a location respectively and the event is held at the location 6 the two nodes represent a user of social networking system and an image e.g. a digital photograph respectively and the user is in the image 7 the two nodes represent a user of social networking system and a product e.g. a mobile telephone respectively and the user owns and uses the product or is interested in the product or has reviewed the product and 8 the two nodes represent a user of social networking system and a software application e.g. a web based game respectively and the user uses the application e.g. plays the game . A connection may exist between two humans a human and a non human entity and two non human entities. Any type of relationship between two human or non human entities may result in a connection between the two entities.

When there is an edge between two specific nodes the two nodes may be considered directly related. When there is no edge between two particular nodes the two nodes may still be considered indirectly related e.g. related through other nodes . The closer two nodes are connected the closer they are considered being related. The term degree of separation may be used to indicate how closely two nodes are related. If two nodes are directly connected there is one degree of separation between them. If two nodes are indirectly connected through one other node there are two degrees of separation between them. If two nodes are indirectly connected through two other nodes there are three degrees of separation between them. And so on.

Since user is a member of social networking system one of the nodes in the social graph represents user . Similarly other nodes in the social graph represent other users respectively. Server may locate the node in the social graph that represents user e.g. using the user ID of user and determine what other nodes are relatively closely related to the node representing user and what entities these other nodes represent.

During any period of time e.g. any 10 second window there may be any number of users declaring that they are in friendly mode and wish to share their information with other users including user and some of the other users . In particular embodiments server may maintain a data structure e.g. a table that contains all users currently in friendly mode. The following illustrates an example table.

In this example User ID is the user ID e.g. with social networking system of each user who is currently in friendly mode. Session ID is the unique token generated for each user by server when that user declares to server that he she is in friendly mode. Time Stamp is the time when the token of each user expires e.g. 10 seconds after time when the token is generated . User Data is the information each user wishes to share with other users . Each time server receives a signal from a specific user declaring himself herself in friendly mode this user is added to the table. When the token of a user has expired this user is deleted from the table.

In particular embodiments in response to the friendly mode signal received from mobile device associated with user server may identify a set of candidates i.e. other users who may be the users e.g. user to whom user desires to send some of his her information based on the known information about user and or mobile device as illustrated in STEP of . Different types of information may be analyzed to obtain different clues about the candidates.

For example user typically shares his her information with another user who is currently with user i.e. at the same location as user . If the current location of user is known e.g. based on the location sensor data provided by mobile device the wireless signals of mobile device the social calendar of user and the current time the check in made by user etc. then a candidate should be another user who is currently at the same location as user e.g. those users attending the same event or in the same establishment as user who also are associated with a unexpired friendly signal or token which means all those users who are not currently co located with user should not be selected as candidates for user . The current locations of other users may be determined similarly as the current location of user .

If user and user wish to exchange information with each other e.g. exchange their respective contact information then both user and user probably declare themselves in friendly mode at approximately the same time. In this case a candidate for user should be another user who is currently in friendly mode as well e.g. another user contained in the table maintained by server which means all those users who are not in friendly mode when user is in friendly mode should not be selected as candidates for user .

In some cases the candidates for user may be limited to a specific degrees of separation e.g. two degrees of separation from user in the social graph of social networking system . In real life situations a person e.g. user is more likely to become friendly and share his her information with a friend of his her own friend than a complete stranger. If a second user and user both are friends of a third user in social networking system i.e. the second user and user have two degrees of separation in the social graph then this second user may be selected as a candidate for user . Conversely those users who are far removed from user in the social graph e.g. having three or more degrees of separation are not selected as candidates for user .

Some sophisticated mobile devices may include components such as NFC near field communication chips or support Bluetooth or Wi Fi capabilities. For example if both mobile device and mobile device have NFC chips they may exchange information or signals for identification or authentication purposes e.g. the user who is associated with the mobile device that is in close proximity with mobile device is likely to be in close proximity with user and thus is likely to be the user to whom user wishes to send his her information .

In particular embodiments many different types of known information e.g. location time social connections social calendar event chick in device capabilities etc. may be combined together to filter out users and reduce the number of possible candidates. In many cases there are only a few possible candidates or even just one possible candidate identified for user after filtering out all the unlikely users. If there is only one possible candidate identified for user as illustrated in STEP YES of then server may confirm with user whether this candidate is in fact the user i.e. user to whom user wishes to send his her information. For example if mobile device is capable of displaying images server may send an image of the candidate to mobile device to be presented to user . illustrates an example user interface that includes an image which may be the image of user . This user interface may be displayed on the screen of mobile device . User may be asked to confirm whether image is in fact the image of user using the YES or NO button.

Alternatively if mobile device is capable of displaying text server may send the name of the candidate to mobile device e.g. as a SMS message . If mobile device is a feature phone with very limited capabilities at the very least server may initiate a phone call to mobile device and relay the name of the candidate over the telephone. If the candidate s image or name is of user then user may reply with an affirmative. If the candidate s image or name is not of user then user may reply with a negative in which case no information of user is sent to the mobile device associated with the candidate.

On the other hand if there are more than one possible candidates identified for as illustrated in STEP NO of then server may generate a set of challenge questions and send them to mobile device associated with user as well as those mobile devices associated with the candidates as illustrated in STEP of . Since different users may be associated with different types of mobile devices having different capabilities in particular embodiments the challenge questions are selected based on the capabilities supported by the specific mobile devices involved in each authentication process e.g. mobile device associated with user and those mobile devices associated with the candidates which may take into consideration factors such as for example and without limitation the type of screen e.g. black and white or color low or high resolution etc. each mobile device has the type of data e.g. text image video that may be handled by each mobile device and the hardware components available in each mobile device .

For example suppose that all mobile devices associated with user and the candidates are capable of displaying images. In this case the challenge questions may involve sending the images of user and the candidates to each other s mobile devices and ask them to identify the other party. Suppose that there are two possible candidates identified for user and either candidate may be user . The image of user may be sent to the mobile device of each of the candidates for display together with the question asking each candidate to identify whether the image is of user the person who is currently with the candidate. At the same time the images of the two candidates may be sent to mobile device for display together with the question asking user to select the image of user the person to whom user wishes to send some of his her information. If one of the candidates indicates that the image is of user who is currently with that candidate and user also selects the image of that same candidate as user then that candidate is authenticated as user . Again the example user interface illustrated in may be used to display the images and ask each user to confirm which image is of the other user with whom the user wishes to share information.

Suppose that all mobile devices associated with user and the candidates have color screens. In this case the challenge questions may involve assigning user and each candidate a unique color or a unique combination of colors. Again suppose that there are two possible candidates identified for user . For example user may be assigned the color red the first candidate may be assigned the color green and the second candidate may be assigned the color blue. Each mobile device is directed to display the color assigned to its user i.e. mobile device displays red the mobile device associated with the first candidate displays green and the mobile device associated with the second candidate displays blue together with the question asking each user to identify the color displayed on the mobile device of the other user i.e. user is asked to identify the color displayed on mobile device of user and user is asked to identify the color displayed on mobile device of user . Further suppose that the first candidate is in fact user . Since user and user i.e. the first candidate are with each other they can show each other the screen of their mobile devices in order to correctly identify the color displayed thereon. The second candidate on the other hand is not with user and thus cannot know what color is displayed on the screen of mobile device .

With basic mobile devices such as feature phones that do not support many capabilities the challenge questions may be voice based. For example a phone call may be initiated to the feature phone of each user involved in the authentication process with a unique tune or jingle and each user is asked to identify the tune or jingle sent to the feature phone of the other user with him her. Alternatively a unique code e.g. a password or a personal identification number PIN may be sent to each phone and each user is asked to enter into his her own phone the code sent to the phone of the other user with him her.

Note that in the above examples user and user may share their respective information with each other. Thus both user and user are authenticated at the same time i.e. user is authenticated in order to receive information from user and user is authenticated in order to receive information from user . If user only sends his her information to user but user does not send his her information to user then only user needs to be authenticated in order to receive information from user . User does not have to be authenticated at the same time. In this case the challenge question may only need to be sent to user . Based on the answers to the challenge questions supplied by the candidates server may determine which candidate is in fact user i.e. the person to whom user wishes to send some of his her information as illustrated in STEP of .

For user once user has been successfully authenticated the information of user e.g. as specified in the above example table may be sent to mobile device e.g. by server as illustrated in STEP of . Any type of information may be shared among any number of users. For example when two users wish to exchange their contact information both users are authenticate for each other at the same time. Then each user s contact information is sent to the other user s mobile device. As another example suppose that a store is distributing coupons to specific types of customers e.g. first time buyers . When a user arrives at the store if the user and the store both have their own mobile devices the user may be authenticated to ensure that he she is in fact a first time buyer at the store before the couple is sent to the user s mobile device. As a third example the two users may send each other friend requests from the social networking system so that they may add each other as their social connections e.g. friends at the social networking system.

In particular embodiments a group of users may be formed dynamically e.g. on an ad hoc basis and a shared space may be dynamically formed among the group of users that enables the users to share information with each other. The shared space may last for as long as the group exists. When the group dissolves the shared space goes away. The users in the group may be authenticated using the process illustrated in before sending their information to each other. In addition an existing group may grow in size i.e. new users joining the group . For example suppose that a group initially has three users and these three users are authenticated using the process illustrated in . Subsequently two more users wish to join the group. The five users may re authenticate each other again using the process illustrated in .

Shared space is described in more detail in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 229 241 entitled Dynamically Created Shared Spaces filed on Sep. 9 2011 and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 229 550 entitled Composited Posting Interface for Social Networking System filed on Sep. 9 2011 both of which are incorporated by reference in their entirety and for all purposes.

In particular embodiments the authentication process is completed before the token generated for the first user e.g. user expires. With some implementations the token expires within 5 10 seconds which means the entire authentication process is completed within a few seconds. Thereafter if the first user wishes to share his her information again either with the same second user e.g. user or other different users the first user needs to declare that he she is in friendly mode again. In response a new token may be generated for the first user and the second user or the other users are similarly authenticated before the first user s information is sent to them.

Particular embodiments may be implemented on one or more computer systems. illustrates an example computer system . In particular embodiments one or more computer systems perform one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein. In particular embodiments one or more computer systems provide functionality described or illustrated herein. In particular embodiments software running on one or more computer systems performs one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein or provides functionality described or illustrated herein. Particular embodiments include one or more portions of one or more computer systems .

This disclosure contemplates any suitable number of computer systems . This disclosure contemplates computer system taking any suitable physical form. As example and not by way of limitation computer system may be an embedded computer system a system on chip SOC a single board computer system SBC such as for example a computer on module COM or system on module SOM a desktop computer system a laptop or notebook computer system an interactive kiosk a mainframe a mesh of computer systems a mobile telephone a personal digital assistant PDA a server or a combination of two or more of these. Where appropriate computer system may include one or more computer systems be unitary or distributed span multiple locations span multiple machines or reside in a cloud which may include one or more cloud components in one or more networks. Where appropriate one or more computer systems may perform without substantial spatial or temporal limitation one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein. As an example and not by way of limitation one or more computer systems may perform in real time or in batch mode one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein. One or more computer systems may perform at different times or at different locations one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein where appropriate.

In particular embodiments computer system includes a processor memory storage an input output I O interface a communication interface and a bus . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular computer system having a particular number of particular components in a particular arrangement this disclosure contemplates any suitable computer system having any suitable number of any suitable components in any suitable arrangement.

In particular embodiments processor includes hardware for executing instructions such as those making up a computer program. As an example and not by way of limitation to execute instructions processor may retrieve or fetch the instructions from an internal register an internal cache memory or storage decode and execute them and then write one or more results to an internal register an internal cache memory or storage . In particular embodiments processor may include one or more internal caches for data instructions or addresses. This disclosure contemplates processor including any suitable number of any suitable internal caches where appropriate. As an example and not by way of limitation processor may include one or more instruction caches one or more data caches and one or more translation lookaside buffers TLBs . Instructions in the instruction caches may be copies of instructions in memory or storage and the instruction caches may speed up retrieval of those instructions by processor . Data in the data caches may be copies of data in memory or storage for instructions executing at processor to operate on the results of previous instructions executed at processor for access by subsequent instructions executing at processor or for writing to memory or storage or other suitable data. The data caches may speed up read or write operations by processor . The TLBs may speed up virtual address translation for processor . In particular embodiments processor may include one or more internal registers for data instructions or addresses. This disclosure contemplates processor including any suitable number of any suitable internal registers where appropriate. Where appropriate processor may include one or more arithmetic logic units ALUs be a multi core processor or include one or more processors . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular processor this disclosure contemplates any suitable processor.

In particular embodiments memory includes main memory for storing instructions for processor to execute or data for processor to operate on. As an example and not by way of limitation computer system may load instructions from storage or another source such as for example another computer system to memory . Processor may then load the instructions from memory to an internal register or internal cache. To execute the instructions processor may retrieve the instructions from the internal register or internal cache and decode them. During or after execution of the instructions processor may write one or more results which may be intermediate or final results to the internal register or internal cache. Processor may then write one or more of those results to memory . In particular embodiments processor executes only instructions in one or more internal registers or internal caches or in memory as opposed to storage or elsewhere and operates only on data in one or more internal registers or internal caches or in memory as opposed to storage or elsewhere . One or more memory buses which may each include an address bus and a data bus may couple processor to memory . Bus may include one or more memory buses as described below. In particular embodiments one or more memory management units MMUs reside between processor and memory and facilitate accesses to memory requested by processor . In particular embodiments memory includes random access memory RAM . This RAM may be volatile memory where appropriate. Where appropriate this RAM may be dynamic RAM DRAM or static RAM SRAM . Moreover where appropriate this RAM may be single ported or multi ported RAM. This disclosure contemplates any suitable RAM. Memory may include one or more memories where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular memory this disclosure contemplates any suitable memory.

In particular embodiments storage includes mass storage for data or instructions. As an example and not by way of limitation storage may include an HDD a floppy disk drive flash memory an optical disc a magneto optical disc magnetic tape or a Universal Serial Bus USB drive or a combination of two or more of these. Storage may include removable or non removable or fixed media where appropriate. Storage may be internal or external to computer system where appropriate. In particular embodiments storage is non volatile solid state memory. In particular embodiments storage includes read only memory ROM . Where appropriate this ROM may be mask programmed ROM programmable ROM PROM erasable PROM EPROM electrically erasable PROM EEPROM electrically alterable ROM EAROM or flash memory or a combination of two or more of these. This disclosure contemplates mass storage taking any suitable physical form. Storage may include one or more storage control units facilitating communication between processor and storage where appropriate. Where appropriate storage may include one or more storages . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular storage this disclosure contemplates any suitable storage.

In particular embodiments I O interface includes hardware software or both providing one or more interfaces for communication between computer system and one or more I O devices. Computer system may include one or more of these I O devices where appropriate. One or more of these I O devices may enable communication between a person and computer system . As an example and not by way of limitation an I O device may include a keyboard keypad microphone monitor mouse printer scanner speaker still camera stylus tablet touch screen trackball video camera another suitable I O device or a combination of two or more of these. An I O device may include one or more sensors. This disclosure contemplates any suitable I O devices and any suitable I O interfaces for them. Where appropriate I O interface may include one or more device or software drivers enabling processor to drive one or more of these I O devices. I O interface may include one or more I O interfaces where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular I O interface this disclosure contemplates any suitable I O interface.

In particular embodiments communication interface includes hardware software or both providing one or more interfaces for communication such as for example packet based communication between computer system and one or more other computer systems or one or more networks. As an example and not by way of limitation communication interface may include a network interface controller NIC or network adapter for communicating with an Ethernet or other wire based network or a wireless NIC WNIC or wireless adapter for communicating with a wireless network such as a WI FI network. This disclosure contemplates any suitable network and any suitable communication interface for it. As an example and not by way of limitation computer system may communicate with an ad hoc network a personal area network PAN a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN a metropolitan area network MAN or one or more portions of the Internet or a combination of two or more of these. One or more portions of one or more of these networks may be wired or wireless. As an example computer system may communicate with a wireless PAN WPAN such as for example a BLUETOOTH WPAN a WI FI network a WI MAX network a cellular telephone network such as for example a Global System for Mobile Communications GSM network or other suitable wireless network or a combination of two or more of these. Computer system may include any suitable communication interface for any of these networks where appropriate. Communication interface may include one or more communication interfaces where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular communication interface this disclosure contemplates any suitable communication interface.

In particular embodiments bus includes hardware software or both coupling components of computer system to each other. As an example and not by way of limitation bus may include an Accelerated Graphics Port AGP or other graphics bus an Enhanced Industry Standard Architecture EISA bus a front side bus FSB a HYPERTRANSPORT HT interconnect an Industry Standard Architecture ISA bus an INFINIBAND interconnect a low pin count LPC bus a memory bus a Micro Channel Architecture MCA bus a Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI bus a PCI Express PCI X bus a serial advanced technology attachment SATA bus a Video Electronics Standards Association local VLB bus or another suitable bus or a combination of two or more of these. Bus may include one or more buses where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular bus this disclosure contemplates any suitable bus or interconnect.

Herein reference to a computer readable storage medium encompasses one or more non transitory tangible computer readable storage media possessing structure. As an example and not by way of limitation a computer readable storage medium may include a semiconductor based or other integrated circuit IC such as for example a field programmable gate array FPGA or an application specific IC ASIC a hard disk an HDD a hybrid hard drive HHD an optical disc an optical disc drive ODD a magneto optical disc a magneto optical drive a floppy disk a floppy disk drive FDD magnetic tape a holographic storage medium a solid state drive SSD a RAM drive a SECURE DIGITAL card a SECURE DIGITAL drive or another suitable computer readable storage medium or a combination of two or more of these where appropriate. Herein reference to a computer readable storage medium excludes any medium that is not eligible for patent protection under 35 U.S.C. .sctn.101. Herein reference to a computer readable storage medium excludes transitory forms of signal transmission such as a propagating electrical or electromagnetic signal per se to the extent that they are not eligible for patent protection under 35 U.S.C. .sctn.101. A computer readable non transitory storage medium may be volatile non volatile or a combination of volatile and non volatile where appropriate.

This disclosure contemplates one or more computer readable storage media implementing any suitable storage. In particular embodiments a computer readable storage medium implements one or more portions of processor such as for example one or more internal registers or caches one or more portions of memory one or more portions of storage or a combination of these where appropriate. In particular embodiments a computer readable storage medium implements RAM or ROM. In particular embodiments a computer readable storage medium implements volatile or persistent memory. In particular embodiments one or more computer readable storage media embody software. Herein reference to software may encompass one or more applications bytecode one or more computer programs one or more executables one or more instructions logic machine code one or more scripts or source code and vice versa where appropriate. In particular embodiments software includes one or more application programming interfaces APIs . This disclosure contemplates any suitable software written or otherwise expressed in any suitable programming language or combination of programming languages. In particular embodiments software is expressed as source code or object code. In particular embodiments software is expressed in a higher level programming language such as for example C Perl or a suitable extension thereof. In particular embodiments software is expressed in a lower level programming language such as assembly language or machine code . In particular embodiments software is expressed in JAVA C or C . In particular embodiments software is expressed in Hyper Text Markup Language HTML Extensible Markup Language XML or other suitable markup language.

Herein or is inclusive and not exclusive unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Therefore herein A or B means A B or both unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Moreover and is both joint and several unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Therefore herein A and B means A and B jointly or severally unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context.

This disclosure encompasses all changes substitutions variations alterations and modifications to the example embodiments herein that a person having ordinary skill in the art would comprehend. Similarly where appropriate the appended claims encompass all changes substitutions variations alterations and modifications to the example embodiments herein that a person having ordinary skill in the art would comprehend. Moreover reference in the appended claims to an apparatus or system or a component of an apparatus or system being adapted to arranged to capable of configured to enabled to operable to or operative to perform a particular function encompasses that apparatus system component whether or not it or that particular function is activated turned on or unlocked as long as that apparatus system or component is so adapted arranged capable configured enabled operable or operative.

