---

title: Mobile commerce framework
abstract: A subscription-based system for providing commerce information for one or more mobile devices for one or more merchants. Some techniques employed feature a subscription-based method for presenting commercial resources to a mobile device. The method involves receiving mobile device user information relating to a geographic location to locate one or more merchants within a subscription-based shopping network, and receiving mobile device user information relating to a merchant type within the subscription-based shopping network. The method also involves receiving, from a database over a communication network, information for one or more merchants associated with the mobile device user information for the geographic location and the merchant type, and presenting the associated merchant information on the mobile device. The associated merchant information can include a merchant name and address, a merchant telephone number, a merchant advertisement, a merchant coupon, or a merchant product or service offering to subscribers of the shopping network.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09436956&OS=09436956&RS=09436956
owner: Hothand, Inc.
number: 09436956
owner_city: Rancho Santa Margarita
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20151015
---
This application is a continuation application of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 705 926 filed May 6 2015 titled Mobile Commerce Framework which in turn is a continuation application of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 451 202 filed Aug. 4 2014 titled Mobile Commerce Framework which in turn is a continuation application of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 044 662 filed on Oct. 2 2013 titled Mobile Commerce Framework which in turn is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 693 956 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 554 632 filed on Jan. 26 2010 titled Mobile Commerce Framework which in turn is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 139 288 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 693 752 filed on May 26 2005 titled Mobile Commerce Framework which claims the benefit of priority from U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 574 988 titled Hot Merchant Network mobile commerce or m merchant network filed May 26 2004 by Randolph A. Jaramillo the disclosures of which are hereby incorporated by reference each in its entirety. This application is related to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 094 379 titled Devices Systems and Methods for Solving Challenges in Telecom Sales and Marketing filed Mar. 8 2002 by Randolph A. Jaramillo which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The present disclosure relates to mobile media content in particular subscription based content for mobile devices and applications.

The growth of the use of cell phones and mobile devices has led to greater communication among individuals and companies. In addition to being used as communication devices for voice and text data mobile devices can be also be used as scheduling devices by synchronizing the mobile device with computers to upload data for addresses and appointments. Mobile devices can also be used as entertainment devices by having capabilities to play computer games play music and video clips. As the third generation 3G and fourth generation 4G mobile telecommunication systems are developed and deployed users can increase their ability to communicate entertain and schedule by using mobile devices with increased processing speeds longer battery life and or processing and transmitting higher data rates.

The present disclosure describes methods systems and techniques for subscription based services using mobile devices.

In one general aspect the disclosure relates to a system for providing commercial resources for subscribers using a mobile device. The system includes a communication network for communicating with the mobile device an application program executable on the mobile device and configured for locating one or more of the commercial resources. The system also includes an identification card associated with the subscriber and the corresponding mobile device. The identification card provides verification that the subscriber has subscription rights to access the commercial resources. The commercial resources include information relating to goods and services provided by merchants within a shopping network communicating with the communication network.

Advantageous implementations can include one or more of the following features. The mobile device can be configured to interact with a database of merchant information over the communication network. The database can be configured to store information associated with the subscribers and with merchants within the shopping network. The application program can be configured to receive subscriber preferences for merchants based on any of an area code a city name a township name or a zip code. The system may also have a mapping tool to find resources in the database for the subscriber preferences. The application program may be configured to present information relating to the commercial resources. The commercial resources can include a merchant name a merchant address a merchant advertisement a merchant telephone number a merchant coupon a merchant product offering or a merchant service offering.

The communication network may include a satellite channel a telephony channel an optical channel a wireless channel a cable channel or the Internet. Subscriber data can be associated with the identification card and the subscriber data may be maintained by a member service intermediary. The member service intermediary can provide the commercial resources and the application program to the mobile device over the communication network. The member service intermediary may coordinate receiving commercial resources from merchants and providing the commercial resources to the mobile device over the communication network.

In another general aspect techniques feature a subscription based method for presenting merchant information to a mobile device. The method include receiving mobile device user information relating to a geographic location to locate one or more merchants within a subscription based shopping network and receiving mobile device user information relating to a merchant type within the subscription based shopping network. The method involves receiving from a database over a communication network information for one or more merchants associated with the mobile device user information for the geographic location and the merchant type and presenting the associated merchant information on the mobile device.

Advantageous implementations can include one or more of the following features. The device user information relating to a geographic location can include any of an area code a ZIP code a city name or a township name. Each merchant within the subscription based shopping network may be associated with at least one merchant type in the database in which the merchant type may be classified by at least a product or service provided by the merchant. The merchant type may include for example a food merchant type an entertainment merchant type a health and beauty merchant type or a travel type.

The associated merchant information can include a merchant name a merchant address a merchant advertisement a merchant coupon a merchant product offering to subscribers of the shopping network or a merchant service offering to subscribers of the shopping network. The method may involve sending the mobile device user information for the geographic location and the merchant type to the database over the communication network. The method may also involve linking membership card identification to the subscription based shopping network.

In another general aspect the disclosure relates to a computer program product for executing real estate transactions on a mobile device. The computer program product includes a real estate qualification tool to qualify a real estate transaction a loan initiation tool to initiate a loan real estate data to store in the mobile device and one or more templates and forms for the loan initiation tool and the real estate qualification tool. The one or more templates and forms include pre populated data. The loan initiation tool and the real estate qualification tool are operable to use real estate data transmitted over a communication network in near real time i.e. substantially in real time with a small time delay for data transmission .

Advantageous implementations can include one or more of the following features. The computer program product can include a signature capturing tool to capture a signature. The signal capturing tool may be used to capture a signature and send the captured signature over the communication network. The computer program product may have a credit check tool to handle data related to checking a credit of real estate applicant s in which the credit check tool can be used for data transmitted over the communication network. The computer program product may include a mortgage calculator operable to perform real estate calculations. The mortgage calculator can have functionality for calculation of monthly payments interest and principal payments loan fees loan points estimated deductions transaction costs amortization schedules and percentage rates.

The computer program product may have instructions operable to execute application programs delivered from a membership services intermediary. The membership services intermediary may organize information for a user of the computer program product and a mortgage broker. The computer program product may be configured to receive updated real estate information over the communication network from a mortgage broker. The updated real estate information may be received in near real time.

The computer program product may have instructions to cause a programmable processor to locate information for a real estate service provider from any of a zip code a telephone country code a telephone number area code a city name or a state name entered into the mobile device. The computer program product may also have instructions to cause a programmable processor to rank mortgage brokers based one or more factors. The one or more factors can include a cost of a loan from the mortgage broker a fee of the mortgage broker and a geographic location of the mortgage broker. The pre populated data for the one or more templates and forms may include names addresses and telephone numbers.

The communication network may include any of a satellite channel a telephony channel an optical channel a wireless channel a cable channel or the Internet. The computer program product may also have a real estate tool suite that includes information for real estate locations real estate values for one or more areas charts to show bidding ranges directions to property locations area neighborhood information a listing of mortgage brokers and a listing of home maintenance repair service providers and local home improvement stores. The real estate tool suite may be operable to use information transmitted over the communication network in near real time.

In another general aspect the disclosure relates to a computer program product tangibly stored on a computer readable medium for presenting merchant information to a mobile device including instructions operable to cause a programmable processor to receive mobile device user information relating to a geographic location to locate one or more merchants within a subscription based shopping network. The instructions are also operable to cause a programmable processor to receive mobile device user information relating to a merchant type within the subscription based shopping network and receive from a database over a communication network information for one or more merchants associated with the mobile device user information for the geographic location and the merchant type. The instructions are also operable to cause a programmable processor to present the associated merchant information on the mobile device.

Advantageous implementations can include one or more of the following features. The computer program product can include instructions operable to send any the of mobile device user information for the geographic location and the merchant type to the database over the communication network. The device user information relating to the geographic location can include any of an area code a ZIP code a city name or a township name. Each merchant within the subscription based shopping network can be associated with at least one merchant type in the database. The merchant type can be classified by at least a product or service provided by the merchant. The associated merchant information can include any of a merchant name a merchant address a merchant telephone number a merchant advertisement a merchant coupon a merchant product offering to subscribers of the shopping network or a merchant service offering to subscribers of the subscription based shopping network.

The computer program product can include instructions operable to execute application programs delivered from a membership services intermediary. The membership services intermediary can organize information for the one or more merchants and subscribers within the subscription based shopping network. The computer program product can have instructions operable to synchronize subscription based shopping network data with a web portal and provide the membership services intermediary with access to the web portal.

In some implementations the mobile device may have software to interact with a shopping network to provide information relating to deals sales bargains and coupons for merchants and services in a particular area code and city. Subscribers to the shopping network can include mobile device users. The shopping network can include merchants and service providers and can include a shopping network intermediary to register the merchants and service providers into the shopping network.

Some advantages for the mobile device users include an ability to receive information relating to product and services for a particular geographic area. The received information can include deals sales bargains and coupons for merchants and services in a particular area code and city. The received information may also be oriented for a selected type of product or service.

Other advantages include a wireless and or telecom service provider using the shopping network to increase customer retention loyalty and add service contracts for mobile device users. The wireless and or telecom service provider can increase sales of their products and reduce losing customers due to number portability and customer turnover. Number portability can refer to an ability for mobile phone users to change service carriers while keeping the same phone number. The shopping network can also serve as an incentive for new customers to select to have service with the telecom service provider. The shopping network incentive can be on top of other incentives to join a telecom service provider such as a type of phone a number of minutes for a cell phone plan a coverage area and promotional accessories such as batteries cases and battery chargers.

Still other advantages include having merchants and service providers within the shopping network to have customers directed to the merchants goods and services. The deals sales bargains and coupons offered by merchants in a particular area code and city can be used to increase revenue for the merchants without additional spending on advertising.

In other implementations the mobile device can include software tools that can be used in the real estate and mortgage industries. For example the mobile devices can be used to conduct real estate transactions check customer credit ratings form contracts prepare loan applications and approvals can capture signatures. Real estate agents can use the mobile device software to conduct their business with customers away from their office. Mortgage companies can receive customer information for the loan process and submit a status of the loan application to the mobile device user.

Some information may be accessible to mobile devices on a fee basis via an authentication mechanism utilizing user names and password protection. Alternatively some information may be freely provided as long as the mobile device user remains a subscriber. The content sent to the mobile device user may be individually customized based on the subscriber s preferences.

The subscription system can include an external subscription database to store information associated with subscribers. The use of subscriber preferences may involve sending merchant information to the mobile device of the subscriber based on an area code a telephone country code a zip code and or city and state names. The received information may be compared with zip codes telephone country codes telephone number area codes and or city and state names stored in a networked database and merchant information or real estate information may be provided to the one or more mobile devices when information received from the one or more mobile devices corresponds with similar or the same information stored in the networked database.

The communication network for the mobile device may include any one of a satellite channel a telephony channel an optical channel a wireless channel a cable channel and the Internet. The event data provided may be based on a geographic region relating to any of the zip codes telephone codes or city and state information.

Details of one or more implementations are set forth in the accompanying drawings and the description below. Other features and advantages will be apparent from the description and drawings and from the claims.

The following detailed description makes reference to the accompanying drawings. Other embodiments of the present disclosure are possible and modifications may be made to the embodiments without departing from the spirit and scope of the disclosure. Therefore the following detailed description is not meant to limit the disclosure.

Moreover for convenience in the ensuing description some explanations of terms are provided herein. However the explanations contained herein are intended to be exemplary only. They are not intended to limit the terms as they are described or referred to throughout the specification. Rather these explanations are meant to include any additional aspects and or examples of the terms as described and claimed herein and or as used by one of skill in the art.

The following describes various tasks techniques and systems relating to fee based or free subscription based services for mobile devices. In some applications the subscription based services related to locating services provided from merchants and service providers in a shopping network. In other applications the mobile device can include tools for services for real estate agents and mortgage companies.

The memory is operably connected to the processor so that the processor may execute one or more application programs stored in the memory . The memory may be electrically connected or optically connected to the processor so that digital signals may be communicated between processor and memory . Processor is operably connected to data input device which may permit a user of mobile device to input data into memory that can be acted upon by processor .

The mobile device further includes one or more data input devices by which a user enters data and instructions into the mobile device . Examples of data input devices include but are not limited to keypads keyboards microphones and or touch screens. An antenna is operably connected to the processor so that signals generated by processor may be transmitted from the mobile device to one or more other communication devices that can receive the signals. The antenna may receive signals from one or more communication devices and may relay or communicate those signals to the processor so that the signals may be processed or stored in memory . The antenna is a component of both data transmitting means and data receiving means for the communication device. A display device can be operably connected to the processor to display data input by the user of mobile device and or data received by antenna . Those having skill in the art will realize that the mobile device is not limited only to the components shown or described and that additional components may be provided.

The mobile device also includes one or more application programs which can be stored in memory and executed by processor . Each application program includes a set of instructions that are executed by processor . Each application program is executed to process transaction data or to locate merchants based on user input or user requests.

After the data has been entered into the mobile device the data may be transmitted over a computer network to a data storage device. For example a suitable data storage device may be a database on a computer. The computer network may be any type of computer network including local area networks LANs wide area networks WANs and the Internet. The computer network may be a hard wired network a wireless network or a combination thereof. In some implementations the computer network includes a wireless network between the mobile device and a computer at a wireless signal receiving station.

In some implementations the subscription service may be a shopping network with multiple merchants that provide commercial resources including merchant information special deals bargains discounts coupons rebates and advertisements to subscribers of the shopping network. Subscribers of the shopping network may have a member card to show membership to the shopping network and can receive information for the special deals bargains discounts and advertisements from the merchants using the applications on the mobile device . A member service intermediary can provide member cards to subscribers of the shopping network and can interact with merchants associated with the shopping network. The member service intermediary can also provide software to subscribers for the mobile device either via the communication network e.g. a software download or via a physical storage medium e.g. an application to install from a compact disc . The member service intermediary can arrange modify and organize data in the database .

A subscriber to the shopping network can use a mobile device to enter information about their present geographic area and a preferred type of service or good and the member service intermediary uses a mapping tool to match merchant information such as merchant types and merchant address information e.g. zip and city with user preferences.

Alternatively the mobile device may be configured to automatically locate a geographical area in which the mobile device is located. For example the mobile device may have global positioning system GPS capabilities or may have capabilities to locate a local area code. For example the mobile device can send a signal to a telecommunications service carrier and the telecommunications service carrier can identify a general location of the signal received based on satellite positioning or based on an interaction with a base station within the local area of the mobile device.

Information that is matched from the mapping tool can be sent from the server through the communication network and back to the mobile device . The applications on the mobile device can show one or more merchants that are matched within the shopping network relating to the submitted user preferences. A user of the mobile device can visit the one or more matched merchants to receive the merchant s advertised goods and services. The user of the mobile device can also show the member card to merchants to show member identification and verify that he or she is subscribed to the shopping network. In some implementations the membership card may also serve as a debit card or credit card. In addition to or instead of a member card the mobile device itself may have membership information on hardware or software to identify a member.

As in the mobile device in can be coupled to a database through a server connected to a communication network . The server may also couple to a computer . The computer may be for example a desktop computer notebook computer or a workstation at a home or office. The computer can use a web portal to receive data from the mobile device sent over the communication network . Instead of or in addition to interacting with the computer over the communication network the mobile device can upload and download data with the computer via a synchronization tool . The mobile device may physically connect to the synchronization tool or may connect to the synchronization tool wirelessly. In some implementations the synchronization tool may be part of a data hub. The synchronization tool may be able to transmit data and information between the mobile device and the computer at data rates that are higher than over the communication network . When synchronizing the mobile device offline entries edits and changes to the data tools applications signatures and or templates can be updated to or from the mobile device . Entities associated with the subscription system including subscribers merchants and the member services intermediary may be able to update and modify shopping network information using a given web portal or mobile device.

The merchants within the shopping network can change or update product or service offerings in near real time e.g. substantially in real time with a small time delay for data transmission . The near real time updates of offerings can provide advantages over paper coupons or printed advertising. For example a mobile device user may be able to see the latest offerings in a local area without the hassle of trying to determine whether a merchant offering has expired. In one implementation the latest product offerings can be downloaded onto the mobile device whenever a mobile device user attempts to search for offerings on the mobile device. The merchants may be able to update and change offerings on a web portal.

In some implementations a mortgage application tool may use the templates and data in the mobile device for preparation of mortgage applications . For example the templates and data in the mobile device may be pre populated with data such as address and telephone information. Alternatively a user of the mobile device can pre populate data fields within a mortgage application template while the user is away from a computer or home office. The mortgage application tool can be used to make real estate agents more efficient and can allow the agents to conduct transactions at various locations. The mobile device may also have a real estate tool suite . The real estate tool suite may include for example information for real estate locations real estate values for particular areas charts to show bidding ranges directions to properties area neighborhood information a listing of mortgage brokers and a listing of home maintenance and repair service providers.

A mortgage loan company may have an origination system to receive information loaded into one or more real estate web portals. The mortgage loan origination system can poll the one or more real estate portals and import or export client information for the loan origination process.

In some implementations a subscriber system can use a password to authenticate a subscriber for the service. User names and user preferences may be stored in one or more databases. Each user may have a user name and password and the mobile device users may have the ability to select from an array of merchants and or services. In some implementations the mobile device users can enter zip codes telephone country codes telephone number area codes city and state names by comparing zip code phone or country codes preferences to the content providers zip code phone and complete telephone numbers to enables subscribers to choose from among a range of merchants and or services that may be available. Each mobile device user may set up individualized user preferences on the desired content if a customer or real estate service if an agent. The subscription service provider may have content that is specific for various zip codes country codes or area codes.

The subscription system can allow the real estate agent to close a deal with a client at any location whether in a real estate office or remotely i.e. out in the field . The subscription system is not limited to forming contracts and accepting offers in the real estate industry but may be used in other industries such as the insurance industry the automobile industry and the travel industry.

In some implementations the mobile device may have advertising from local and national mortgage loan companies. The mortgage loan company can subscribe to the subscriber system to generate business and provide real estate agents with near real time lending information and rates. The mobile device may also have software to rank the mortgage loan company based on one or more factors such as the cost of the lender the fees of the lenders and or whether the lender is national or regional.

The mortgage loan companies within the shopping network can change or update service offerings or rate information in near real time e.g. substantially in real time with a small time delay for data transmission . The near real time updates of offerings can provide advantages over printed advertising or going back to the office to check the Internet for the latest rates and fees. In one implementation the latest offerings can be downloaded onto the mobile device whenever a mobile device user attempts to search for offerings rate information real estate or contract information on the mobile device. The mortgage loan companies may be able to update and change offerings on a web portal. In some implementations subscribing to the subscriber system can also allow the mobile device user to have access to the discounts and promotions for the shopping network described in .

Examples of communication networks include various forms or mediums of data communications such as a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN a wireless local area network WLAN and a personal area network PAN . Other examples of communication networks include a mobile communication network using a multiple access technology such as a cellular phone network with Code Division Multiple Access CDMA a satellite network and the Internet.

The data that can be sent over the communication network can be displayed on one or more mobile devices such as computers cell phones and personal digital assistants PDAs . The communication network can interact with a server to communicate with multiple devices. The server may refer to one or more hardware servers or software servers such as a server program. The devices may be internet compatible devices and may be connected through a cellular phone network. As used herein a mobile device may also refer to any general purpose mobile machine that processes data according to a set of instructions that is stored internally either temporarily or permanently including but not limited to general purpose mobile computers laptop computers internet compatible mobile phones wired or wireless laptop computers. The mobile devices may also include satellite based transmission devices smart client devices that actively fetch data and store data locally wireless devices a cellular or mobile telephone an electronic handheld unit for the wireless receipt and or transmission of data a media content playable device such as an MP3 player or the like.

Although the some of the implementations of the disclosure herein are described with particular reference to wireless telephones the disclosure is not to be construed as being limited only to wireless telephones. For instance mobile devices can include portable handheld communication devices including at least portable computers such as personal digital assistants and text messaging systems such as two way pagers and mobile email communication tools such as Research in Motion Ltd. s RIM Blackberry. In other words the present disclosure can encompass handheld communication devices that are capable of communicating over multiple different communication networks including wireless computer networks. The handheld communication devices can be able to communicate with one or more handheld communication devices and or one or more computers operably connected to the computer network. Handheld communication devices can be able to transmit data input by a user of the device to a data storage device such as a computer and more particularly a database of the computer. In addition the handheld communication device can be able to receive data over a computer network for example by the computer to which it transmitted the data. Each device may have a specific or unique internet address in which the communication network may direct data to one or more devices based on the device s internet address.

To provide for interaction with a user the mobile devices can use a display such as a cathode ray tube CRT or liquid crystal display LCD monitor which displays information to the user and a keyboard and or a pointing device such as a mouse or a trackball to serve as input to the mobile device. The mobile device may provide feedback to the user with any form of sensory feedback such as visual feedback or tactile feedback.

The communication network may include a back end component such as a data server or a middleware component such as an application server or a front end component such as a client computer having a graphical user interface portal or a Web browser through which a user can interact with an implementation of the systems and techniques described here. The mobile device itself may have a front end component that includes a graphical user interface. In general the communication network and or the mobile device may use any combination of such back end middleware or front end components.

The software also known as programs software tools or code may include machine instructions for a programmable processor and can be implemented in a high level procedural and or object oriented programming language and or in assembly machine language. The mobile device may have an Application Programming Interface API . For example the mobile device may also run on a Binary Runtime Environment for Wireless BREW platform an open source on line application development platform for wireless CDMA devices from Qualcomm Inc. of San Diego Calif. The BREW platform can allow application developers to write programs and scripts in various software languages such as C C JAVA and XML. The mobile device may have a software media player such as a Windows media player that can show text data and or a video presentation.

As used herein the term machine readable medium refers to any computer program product apparatus and or device used to provide machine instructions and or data to a programmable processor including a machine readable medium that receives machine instructions as a machine readable signal. The machine readable medium refers to magnetic discs optical disks memory Programmable Logic Devices PLDs and the like. The term machine readable signal refers to any signal used to provide machine instructions and or data to a programmable processor.

In some implementations the subscriber may have preferences for data from merchants and or service providers based on selected zip codes area codes or country codes of the merchants and or service providers. The subscriber data may be authenticated by a subscriber data interface. In some implementations the mobile device subscribers may be mobile phone subscribers. In other implementations the mobile device subscribers may be using WiMax the IEEE 802.16 Air Interface Standard. The mobile device subscribers can enter a user name and a password for authentication via a subscriber database interface.

In some implementations the subscribers may have a free subscription to the shopping network or real estate services. In other implementations the subscribers may have a fee based subscription to the shopping network or real estate services. Alternatively the subscribers may have a free subscription to some free real estate service providers and a fee based subscription to fee based other real estate service providers.

The merchant types are not limited to the merchant types shown in but may include other merchant types. For example other merchant types may include merchants that provide goods and services in areas for pets clothing and accessories toys books hardware and tools computers electronics jewelry music watches sports gifts outdoor gear arts crafts antiques rentals and home and garden supplies and services. In some implementations the mobile device user may navigate through additional prompts to search among the additional merchant types. In some implementations the shopping network may form a partnership with a wireless communication carrier and merchants subscribed to the shopping network may have privileges to present promotional offerings to the wireless communication carrier subscribers.

