---

title: Discrete phased electromagnetic reflector based on two-state elements
abstract: An electromagnetic reflector for reflecting an electromagnetic signal is provided based on meta-surface phase control using photo-capacitive materials, varactors or other tuning means. The shape of the metamaterial unit cell enhances the resonance and phase shift. The reflector includes first and second cells having respective first and second phase states, along with a switch for selecting between the first and second cells.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09515390&OS=09515390&RS=09515390
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 09515390
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150611
---
The invention described was made in the performance of official duties by one or more employees of the Department of the Navy and thus the invention herein may be manufactured used or licensed by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefor.

The invention relates generally to electromagnetic radiation reflectors. In particular the invention relates to signal reflectors to redirect and or reshape electromagnetic radiation.

Radiation reflectors include reflect arrays which are known to those skilled in the art of antenna designs as useful for reflecting an electromagnetic wave at various angles by controlling the phase of the elements that compose the array.

A phased array can be used to control electromagnetic radiation. By controlling the phase of each element within the array a narrow electromagnetic beam can be formed. By dynamically changing the phase in a way known to those skilled in the art of antenna design the beam can be steered as reported by A. J. Fenn et al. The Development of Phased Array Radar Technology 12 321 340 2000 available at https www.ll.mitedu publications journal pdf vol12 no2 12 2devphasedarray.pdf.

Reflect arrays are similar to phased arrays but the elements in the array produce no radiation of their own. Instead each element is a reflector that reflects a small portion of incident radiation. Often the elements are designed to be resonant at a given frequency or over a range of frequencies. By controlling the resonance the phase of the reflected signal can be dynamically controlled into different directions as reported by D. G. Berry et al. The Reflectarray Antenna 11 645 651 1963 .

The transition between two phases in a reflect array often occurs over a very narrow range of control parameters. Precise control of the phase of each element can be difficult in relation to the others in order to achieve precise beam steering. Further due to material losses and resonant component losses the amplitude of the reflected signal can be dramatically reduced at resonance which is often an undesirable effect.

Conventional electromagnetic reflectors yield disadvantages addressed by various exemplary embodiments of the present invention. Various exemplary embodiments provide a method and system for controlling the phase and amplitude of a reflect array at any angle while maintaining high reflected amplitude of the signal. In particular the proposed two stage elements provide a simple solution and are easy to implement. Other various embodiments alternatively or additionally provide for a broader range of phase control. Unlike conventional reflector array where each element is separated by about half wavelength various reflector array embodiments contain a set of panels each panel has several super cells and each super cell has several unit cells. This high resolution also enhances control of the beam in a more precise way than traditional array reflectors.

Various exemplary embodiments provide optical control without the electromagnetic interference effect. These can be performed in conjunction with other methods for control. These and other objects are achieved by the invention embodiments of which comprise a system and method for controlling the phase shift of a reflected electromagnetic signal in a reflect array by employing a unit cell comprising an element having multiple phase states. Additional aspects and or advantages of the invention will be set forth in part in the description which follows and in part will be obvious from the description or may be learned by practice of the invention.

In the following detailed description of exemplary embodiments of the invention reference is made to the accompanying drawings that form a part hereof and in which is shown by way of illustration specific exemplary embodiments in which the invention may be practiced. These embodiments are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice the invention. Other embodiments may be utilized and logical mechanical and other changes may be made without departing from the spirit or scope of the present invention. The following detailed description is therefore not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of the present invention is defined only by the appended claims.

In accordance with a presently preferred embodiment of the present invention the components process steps and or data structures may be implemented using various types of operating systems computing platforms computer programs and or general purpose machines. In addition those of ordinary skill in the art will readily recognize that devices of a less general purpose nature such as hardwired devices or the like may also be used without departing from the scope and spirit of the inventive concepts disclosed herewith. General purpose machines include devices that execute instruction code. A hardwired device may constitute an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or a field programmable gate array FPGA or other related component.

Reference will now be made in detail to the present embodiments of the present invention examples of which are illustrated in the accompanying drawings wherein like reference numerals refer to the like elements throughout. The embodiments are described below in order to explain the present invention by referring to the figures. The embodiments are predicated on the discovery that in reflect arrays the phase shift of the reflected wave may be controlled at any particular angle by employing elements having multiple phase states.

More particularly the phase of the reflected wave has discrete values depending on the number of elements in the array that can be controlled in a more stable way. Various embodiments provide a method and a system for reflecting an electromagnetic wave with a phase change from that of normal metallic or dielectric materials.

The phase of the reflected wave can be any number of discrete steps in phase dependent on the number of elements in the reflect array. A principal advantage of exemplary embodiments is that the phase change can be accomplished using any unit cell structure that has two states. Another advantage is that phase resolution and dynamic range can be independently controlled. For example in a simple linear array a ten element array can reflect the electromagnetic wave with any one of eleven phase values in one particular direction normal to the array for example . For elements that have two states of phase shift given by phases and then the eleven phase values will lie between and .

Exemplary embodiments enable the control of the phase and amplitude of a reflect array at any angle. For clarity the angle can be assumed to be normal to the array in the following description. Each unit cell in the array can be assumed to have two phases. For example each unit cell can be phase or phase . The continuous phase change between and can be assumed to be infinitely sharp effectively for clarity.

For unique transition points for each element either by design or caused by general manufacturing tolerances then each element can change states at a different setting of the control parameter. The phase shift for each element n represents one of two states for any of the N elements. Depending on how many of the N elements are in state or in state then the final wave will have any phase between and with N 1 discrete steps. For example one can assume that a simple two element system has a total of three phase states.

A plurality of elements can reflect many discrete phases. With N elements one can achieve N 1 discrete phases. Depending on the configuration of phase distribution among the elements either linear or random phase patterns of the total field can be generated. For example for six elements with 90 of two phase states a linear phase chirp can be generated if the distribution pattern of each step is given by the array 

Possible control elements include but are not limited to photo capacitance chips with different capacitance and conductivity controlled by infrared IR light intensity as well as piezoelectric materials and carbon nanotubes CNT . Other control elements exist and this invention should not be restricted by any particular control method. For example some control methods might use electric control or thermal control piezo control liquid crystal control etc. instead of optical control. If a wavelet is reflected from each of n elements then the final wave will have a net phase of approximately sin 1 where n denotes an element N is the total number of elements is the phase shift of the element n is angular frequency and t is time.

For a wavelet reflected from each of n elements the final wave has a net phase of approximately eqn. 1 where represents one of two states for any of the N elements. Depending on how many of the N elements are in state or in state the final wave has any phase between and with N 1 discrete steps. For example a simple two element system has a total of three phase states. Table in shows a tabular listing with particular states and resulting values together with their resulting phase shift. Table in shows a tabular listing with amplitudes and phase states that yield resulting phase shifts. In particular the tabular listing in Table summarizes an example with two elements two phase states 0 and 90 and two amplitude states 0.5 and 1 .

The exemplary process can be applied to military fields as well as in civilian e.g. transmission of radiation with controlled direction such as beam steering for nonmilitary use from radio frequency RF to infrared IR and thus would be of great interest for maritime and aerial navigation and for weather radars. An advantage of various exemplary embodiments is that the phase can be controlled with simple two stage elements and that the control can be accomplished without loss of amplitude of the reflected wave.

Phase resolution depends on the number of elements while dynamic range depends on the phase difference of the two states. Therefore the resolution and the dynamic range can be independently controlled. A side lobe will exist because the system represents a two element reflect array where each element has different phases and amplitudes that can be controlled through but not limited to photocapacitors with different light intensities.

Various phase pattern can also be generated if each element is controlled to acquire a phase of either 90 or 2 radians . Upon implementation above phase should be added into propagation phase of electromagnetic wave through Huygens Fresnel Principle 

Far field power corresponding to views are respectively shown in in plot views . Power whether reference or panel is shown as a function of reflection angle in degrees. Without phase modulation plots and provide reference power under add in power and add in field respectively. Note that add in power refers to the total power in the far field is obtained by adding radiation power of the individual element and the add in field denotes the total power in the far field is obtained by adding radiation field of the individual element and then squaring it.

Plots and show provide panel power respectively under add in power and add in field the peaks being off set from null reflection angle. For phase modulation plots and provide reference power under add in power and add in field respectively while plots and show panel power under add in power and add in field respectively. As a comparison reflection from the same size panel without phase modulation is shown in the panels. Total power decreases about 50 due to phase modulation.

The phase variation is caused by interference among different radiation elements. For view the polar angle denotes the abscissa and phase identifies the ordinate . For view the azimuth angle denotes the abscissa and phase indicates the ordinate . Without loss of generality the size of each element is assumed to be 20 10 mm and spacing 12 mm and 6 mm in x and y direction respectively.

As described the number of cells in either state can be adjusted and the net reflected wave from the super cell will be of some intermediate phase between and . For example for all unit cells being in first state then the super cell reflects an electromagnetic wave with phase . Also for half the unit cells being in state and half in state the super cell reflects an electromagnetic wave with a phase of 2 assuming they both have the same amplitude.

Although the wavelength of 10 cm is used in the described simulations applications are not limited to the S band 3 1 GHz in the spectrum. The methodology of exemplary embodiments can be applied to any spectrum range of electromagnetic wave. The phase can be adjusted by sin 3 where N is the number of elements Ais amplitude of element n is the phase shift of element n. Thus if each element can also control its amplitude among two or more states then eqn. 1 transitions to eqn. 3 . An example of this is shown in view Table 3 with amplitude states 0.5 1 and 1 0.5 and their resulting phase shifts of the total field in the far field.

Conventional reflect array schemes suffer from amplitude loss at the resonant frequency for which they were designed as shown in views . The worst case amplitude loss is at resonance where the phase shift is approximately half way between and . Thus to get a strong reflectance between either or is generally thought difficult to achieve.

The phase transition at frequency fmarks the interface between the first phase and the second phase . Reflections between phases denote amplitude loss as noted by the cusp and corresponding phase transition . In view the amplitudes show substantial decrease at cusps and for the first and second phases respectively showing phase tuning without amplitude loss across a wide frequency band. The transitions correspond to the cusps for the first phase and the second phase respectively. This improves noise margin at intermediate states.

A reflected wave from a super cell of a phased array reflector can incorporate any phase between and by adjusting the number of unit cells in either state. Because each unit cell operates at a resonance from the desired operational frequency there is no loss in amplitude. One can imagine a super cell made from two unit cells . To reflect an electromagnetic wave with an intermediate phase shift the first unit cell would operate at a frequency lower than operating frequency fand the second unit cell would operate at a frequency higher than f.

The phase from the electromagnetic wave reflected from the super cell would have a net phase of 2 at f. Similarly if both unit cells were in state then the super cell would reflect a phase of and similarly for at f. A higher number of unit cells within a super cell produces a higher number of net reflected phases without amplitude loss at f.

For example the 16 unit cells within each super cell in the configuration of view can produce up to seventeen discrete phase values. In fact for n unit cells within a super cell one can derive n 1 unique phase values from the electromagnetic wave reflected from a super cell . Because each super cell can then have its own phase value a phased array reflector is then possible using the exemplary method. Thus a phased array reflector could not be possible by using the reflect array concept.

The phased array reflector requires each emitter in the array to be capable of a continuum of phase shift values across the array in order to produce a well defined beam at a desired angle of reflectance. As an example in practice a two unit cell system could have states 0 0 0 1 1 0 and 1 1. States 0 1 and 1 0 are assumed to be degenerate and to produce the same phase shift. In practice there might be small variations due to the physical displacement of the two unit cells that would be considered in actual design.

A dielectric layer can be formed by various materials a FR 4 being a glass reinforced laminate epoxy which is low cost but lossy at high frequencies. For optical tuning a light guide film is disposed above the dielectric layer . The film includes disposed thereon first and second i.e. right and left patch elements and joined together by a left switch element .

That switch element can be formed from photo capacitive ink. Alternatively the switch element can be based on any of electric optical thermal piezo liquid crystal phase transition material and micro electromagnetic system MEMS configurations The switch element controls the state of the unit cell each of which has a pair of phase states. The design of the unit cell represents only one of many types that can be implemented. Other designs include but are not limited to cross structures pad structures mushroom structures in which a via ties some points of the pad to the ground plane or inverses of the structures in which the non metallic regions and metallic regions are reversed.

An advantage of exemplary embodiments is that the phase can be controlled with simple two stage elements. Phase resolution depends on the number of elements while dynamic range in phase depends on the phase difference of the two states. Therefore the resolution and the dynamic range can be independently controlled. A side lobe will exist since the system basically represents a two element reflect array where each element has different phases and amplitudes which can be controlled through but not limited to photocapacitors with different light intensities. Alternatively one could use a microstrip semiconductor p i n diode phase shifter with the high level injection diode denoting positive region intrinsic charge carrying type negative region . Side lobes can be minimized by controlling amplitude of the reflector elements in the same way to those skilled in the art with phased arrays.

While certain features of the embodiments of the invention have been illustrated as described herein many modifications substitutions changes and equivalents will now occur to those skilled in the art. It is therefore to be understood that the appended claims are intended to cover all such modifications and changes as fall within the true spirit of the embodiments.

