---

title: System and method for unified synchronization of relationship connections across multiple social network databases
abstract: A system and method for unified synchronization of relationship connections across multiple social network databases is disclosed. In one aspect, the method includes logging in a first user to a first user account through a first wireless mobile device controlled by the first user, wherein the first user account comprises a logical connection to a plurality of the first user's social network accounts. The method further includes discovering a second wireless mobile device or account associated with a second user. The method further includes selecting more than one of the first user's social network accounts via input from the first user, and generating an invitation to connect to the second user's account, wherein the invitation comprises a connection invitation for the second user to connect to at least one of the selected social network accounts of the first user.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09307380&OS=09307380&RS=09307380
owner: DGS Development, LLC
number: 09307380
owner_city: Salt Lake City
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150831
---
This Application is a Continuation of and claims benefit from U.S. application Ser. No. 14 817 076 filed on Aug. 3 2015 entitled SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR UNIFIED SYNCHRONIZATION OF RELATIONSHIP CONNECTIONS ACROSS MULTIPLE SOCIAL NETWORK DATABASES which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

The invention generally relates to social networks and more particularly to systems and methods for unified synchronization of relationship connections across multiple social network databases.

Several known social networks are available for sharing of content e.g. text based messages images audio video other computer files access to money etc. generally through the Internet. Current social networks include social media networks such as Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Pinterest Google Plus Instagram and VK. A user of one of these social networks can connect with friends family members acquaintances businesses etc. through initiating a friend request a follow request or some other request depending on the configuration of the social network. Computing devices whether wired or wireless access these social networks through the use of Internet browsers or dedicated software applications also called apps.

In current implementations a user must log in to their account for each social network to initiate a relationship connection to another user. If the user desires to add another user s contact information e.g. phone number home address email website URL notes etc. to the user s device this involves additional steps. This process can be tedious because each time the first user wishes to connect with another user the first user must access each of their associated social networks individually find the other user s account and initiate a connection e.g. friend or follow request. Thus methods and apparatuses for connecting users to more than one social network at a time may be desired.

Various implementations of systems methods and devices within the scope of the appended claims each have several aspects no single one of which is solely responsible for the desirable attributes described herein. Without limiting the scope of the appended claims some prominent features are described herein.

One inventive aspect is a method for unified synchronization of relationship connections across a plurality of social networks. The method includes logging in a first user to a first user account through a first wireless mobile device controlled by the first user wherein the first user account comprises a logical connection to a plurality of the first user s social network accounts. The method further includes discovering a second wireless mobile device controlled by a second user wherein a second user account is associated with the second user. The method further includes selecting more than one of the first user s social network accounts via input from the first user to the first wireless mobile device. The method further includes upon input from the first user to the first wireless mobile device generating an invitation to connect to the second user s account wherein the invitation comprises a connection invitation for the second user to connect to at least one of the selected social network accounts of the first user.

Another inventive aspect is a first mobile wireless device for unified synchronization of relationship connections across a plurality of social networks. The first wireless mobile device includes a processor configured to log in a first user to a first user account wherein the first user account comprises a logical connection to a plurality of the first user s social network accounts. The processor is further configured to discover a second wireless mobile device controlled by a second user wherein a second user account is associated with the second user. The first wireless mobile device further includes a user interface configured to receive a selection of more than one of the first user s social network accounts. The processor is further configured to generate an invitation to connect to the second user s account upon receiving the selection wherein the invitation comprises a connection invitation for the second user to connect to at least one of the selected social network accounts of the first user.

Another inventive aspect is a non transitory computer readable medium. The medium includes code that when executed performs a method for unified synchronization of relationship connections across a plurality of social networks. The executed method includes logging in a first user to a first user account through a first wireless mobile device controlled by the first user wherein the first user account comprises a logical connection to a plurality of the first user s social network accounts. The executed method further includes discovering a second wireless mobile device controlled by a second user wherein a second user account is associated with the second user. The executed method further includes selecting more than one of the first user s social network accounts via input from the first user to the first wireless mobile device. The executed method further includes upon input from the first user to the first wireless mobile device generating an invitation to connect to the second user s account wherein the invitation comprises a connection invitation for the second user to connect to at least one of the selected social network accounts of the first user.

Various embodiments of the novel systems apparatuses and methods are described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings. The teachings of this disclosure can however be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to any specific structure or function presented throughout this disclosure. Rather these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will be thorough and complete and will fully convey the scope of the disclosure to those skilled in the art. Based on the teachings herein one skilled in the art should appreciate that the scope of the disclosure is intended to cover any embodiment of the novel systems apparatuses and methods disclosed herein whether implemented independently of or combined with any other embodiment of the invention. For example an apparatus can be implemented or a method can be practiced using any number of the embodiments set forth herein. In addition the scope of the invention is intended to cover such an apparatus or method which is practiced using other structure functionality or structure and functionality in addition to or other than the various embodiments of the invention set forth herein. It should be understood that any embodiment disclosed herein can be embodied by one or more elements of a claim.

Although particular embodiments are described herein many variations and permutations of these embodiments fall within the scope of the disclosure. Although some benefits and advantages of the preferred embodiments are mentioned the scope of the disclosure is not intended to be limited to particular benefits uses or objectives. Rather embodiments of the disclosure are intended to be broadly applicable to different wireless technologies system configurations networks and transmission protocols some of which are illustrated by way of example in the figures and in the following description of the preferred embodiments. The detailed description and drawings are merely illustrative of the disclosure rather than limiting the scope of the disclosure being defined by the appended claims and equivalents thereof.

In some embodiments the first mobile user device or the second mobile device can include one or more of a processor a memory a transmitter a receiver a display and a user interface. In various embodiments the processor can be configured to execute code such as software in order to perform the various functions described herein. In some embodiments the code can be stored on the memory. In some embodiments the transmitter can be transmit data or other signals to other devices such as another mobile device e.g. the first mobile user device or the second mobile user device the mobile application server or one or more of the first through the Nsocial network servers . In some embodiments the receiver can be configured to receive data or other signals from other devices such as another mobile device e.g. the first mobile user device or the second mobile user device the mobile application server or one or more of the first through the Nsocial network servers . In one embodiment the transmitter and the receiver can be implemented as a transceiver. In some embodiments the display can be configured to display information to a user of the device e.g. the first mobile user device or the second mobile user device . In one embodiment the display can be implemented as a touchscreen display. In various embodiments the user interface can include a keypad a microphone a speaker a display or any element or component that conveys information to a user of the device or received input from the user thereof.

As illustrated in one embodiment the first mobile user device can additionally or alternatively connect to the second mobile user device outside of the network . In accordance with this embodiment this connection can occur via a near field communication NFC or Bluetooth protocol such as Bluetooth LE.

In some embodiments the mobile application server can be configured to host or otherwise run a social network referred to herein as the social connection network or SCN . In various embodiments the SCN can include user accounts which can be utilized to connect users on more than one separate social network at a time. In some embodiments separate social networks can refer to social networks that are separate from the SCN and separate from each other. In some embodiments the more than one social networks can include social media networks such as Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Pinterest Google Plus Instagram or VK. In some embodiments the more than one social networks can further include other networks which cannot be traditionally considered social or social media networks but otherwise include user accounts. For example some networks or websites can provide a platform for sharing product reviews or other media and can require users to register for a user account with the platform in order to share a product review e.g. Yelp Amazon or Expedia post a comment e.g. YouTube or Reddit or otherwise edit content e.g. Wikipedia . The platform itself can or cannot provide a method of connecting the various user accounts within the platform. In either event users of the platform can wish to connect with other users e.g. one user can wish to read a product or service review written by one of their friends and therefore the more than one social networks can include one or more of these networks websites or platforms.

In some embodiments a first user of the SCN can link each of their separate social network accounts e.g. one or more of the user s Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Pinterest Google Plus Instagram and VK accounts to their first user account within the SCN. In accordance with these embodiments the first user can be able to connect with a second user through a connection process who has similarly linked each of their separate social network accounts to their second user account within the SCN. In some embodiments the SCN accounts of the first or second user can be regarded as comprising a logical connection referred to herein as linked to a plurality of the first or second users social network accounts respectively. During this connection process each of the first and second users can select any number of their linked social network accounts to share with each other. In some embodiments the first and second users can additionally or alternatively select any number of the other user s social network accounts that they wish to follow through a selection process. As a result of the selection process the first and second users can become connected through each of the social network accounts they selected. For example as a result of the selection process the first and second user can become friends on Facebook and Google Plus and can also become follower of each other on Instagram and Pinterest. As mentioned above social networks can be considered either share or follow networks. For example Facebook LinkedIn and Google Plus can be considered friend networks because both users must accept a connection because both user accounts have equal permissions with respect to each other e.g. either user can post comments on the account of the other user . By way of another example Twitter Instagram and Tumblr can be considered follow networks because only one user can be required to form a connection between themselves and another user because the connected users cannot have equal permissions e.g. one user can only be allowed to view the account of another user or because two separate connections can be necessary e.g. the first user account must initiate a connection to follow the second user account and a separate connection must be initiated by the second user account to follow the first user account . In some embodiments a connection can only occur where both users select the same social network to share or follow. The use of first second and other numerical values are merely illustrative as an unlimited number of users can be able to utilize the described SCN.

As illustrated the mobile application server can be connected to or otherwise include a mobile application database . In some embodiments the mobile application database can contain the information necessary to run the SCN. For example as illustrated the mobile application database can include a plurality of social network connections . The social network connections can include first social network connections and second social network connections through Nsocial network connections . Each of the first through Nsocial network connections can include preexisting connections between users on each of the respective social networks. For example as illustrated the Nsocial network connections can include connection and connection through connection. Each of these connections can include a connection from one user account within the Nsocial network to another user account within the Nsocial network. For example in one embodiment connection can include an indication that the first user s Facebook account and the second user s Facebook account are friends wherein Facebook is the Nsocial network. By way of another example in one embodiment connection can include an indication that the first user s Instagram account is following the second user s Instagram account wherein Instagram is the Nsocial network. Accordingly the social network connections can include all connections e.g. indications of friendships or followings among the users of each social network. In some embodiments the social network connections can only include the social network connections for the users of SCN e.g. users who have registered for an account with the SCN and linked their separate social network accounts . In various embodiments the social network connections can be updated in a number of ways such as periodically when a user of the SCN first registers when a user of the SCN links a new separate social network account when a user of the SCN adds a new connection within the SCN when a user of the SCN adds a new connection within one of the separate social networks when a user of the SCN views the account information of another user of the SCN or when a user of the SCN initiates the connection process with another user of the SCN e.g. the SNC connection process of below .

In some aspects when a first user of the SCN registers for an account the first user may automatically be connected to a second user of the SCN based at least in part upon whether the first user and the second user have any preexisting connections on their social network accounts. For example if a first user and a second user are Facebook friends and the first and second user have linked their Facebook accounts to their SCN accounts the first and second user may become connected within the SCN e.g. friends without any additional steps e.g. without initiating a friend follow or some other request .

As further illustrated the first social network server can be connected to or otherwise include a first social network database the second social network server can be connected to or otherwise include a second social network database and the Nsocial network server can be connected to or otherwise include an Nsocial network database . Each of the social network databases can contain information relating to each of the users of the respective social network. For example each of the social network databases can contain account information for each of the users of the respective social network and can contain indications of all of the connections that each of the users have to other users of the same social network. In some embodiments the information on the connections of each separate social network stored in the databases can be used to populate the social network connections .

Specifically illustrates a connection matrix of the first user account of and the second user account of after a connection process according to an embodiment. For example as illustrated the first user account and the second user account can be connected via the first social network after the connection process. In some embodiments the first social network can be a friend network and the first and second users can be friends within the first social network . For example in one embodiment the first social network can be Facebook. In accordance with this embodiment the first user corresponding to the first user account and the second user corresponding to the second user account can each have a separate Facebook account within the first social network . Therefore in accordance with this embodiment after the completion of the connection process the first user s Facebook account can be connected with the second user s Facebook account. In other words the first and second users can become friends on Facebook as a result of the connection process.

As illustrated the first user account and the second user account can also be connected via the second social network after the connection process. In some embodiments the first social network can be a follow network and the first and second users can follow each other within the second social network . For example in one embodiment the second social network can be Instagram. In accordance with this embodiment the first user and the second user can each have a separate Instagram account within the second social network . Therefore in accordance with this embodiment after the completion of the connection process the first user s Instagram account can be connected with the second user s Instagram account. In other words the first and second users can individually follow each other on Instagram as a result of the connection process. In some embodiments only one of the first or second users can follow the other user on Instagram depending on whether one or both of the first and second users indicated that they wanted to follow the other user during the connection process.

As illustrated the first user account and the second user account cannot be connected via the third social network . In some embodiments this can occur because one or both of the first and second users did not share or otherwise indicate that the wished to connect with the other user s account within the third social network . Also as illustrated the first user account and the second user account cannot be connected via the fourth social network or the fifth social network . This can occur because the first user does not have a separate account or otherwise did not link their separate account within the fifth social network . The same can be true for the second user and the fourth social network . In any event as illustrated in the first user e.g. via the first user account and the second user e.g. via the second user account can connect on more than one social network at a time wherein the first and second user were not previously connected on any of the social networks . In other embodiments the first and second users can have previously been connected on one or more of the social networks . In some embodiments the first and second user can also share personal contact information such as one or more phone numbers emails or street addresses during the connection process.

As illustrated the user entity can further include GPSCoordinates for the user e.g. latitude and longitude and a GPSDistanceSetting for the user which can indicate whether the user sees other users within a specified distance or whether the user is visible to other users within a specified distance e.g. 25 ft 50 ft 100 ft etc. . The user entity can further include a DeviceID that uniquely identifies the device used by the user e.g. a serial number or MAC address and a DeviceType of the device user by the user e.g. iPhone . As illustrated the user entity can further include a list of AccessTokens for the user which can be utilized when linking or accessing the various separate social network accounts of the user. The user entity can further include a list of Notifications for the user.

In some embodiments the user entity can indicate whether the user is a member of a specific social network e.g. one of the social networks of through the a SocialNetworkMember field and the user entity can further include a SocialNetworkID for the user on the specified social network as well as a SocialNetworkPassword of the user on the specified social network. This information can be utilized to log into the user s account on the specified social network in order to obtain additional information about the user such as any connections the user can have on the specified social network. In various embodiments this information is replicated for each of social networks supported by the SCN. For example as illustrated the user entity can similarly include a FacebookMember indication a FacebookID of the user and a FacebookPassword for the user. This information can be similarly used to access the user s Facebook information including information about each of the user s Facebook friends. In one embodiment the user entity can further include an ID and password for each of the social networks of .

As illustrated the user entity can further include a DeletedStatus indicating whether the user s account has been or will be deleted a list of BlockedUserIDs indicating which users of the SCN the user has blocked and an AccountType of the user s account e.g. normal user administrative user etc. . The user entity can further include a DatetimeCreated indication of when the user s account was created an OnlineStatus indicating whether the user is currently online a LastLogin time a LastUpdate time PrivacySettings for the user and Notes about the user s account.

As illustrated the database further includes a SCN post entity illustrated as FriendFly Post . In some embodiments the SCN post entity can be utilized to display each of the posts the user makes on each of their separate social networks. As illustrated the SCN post entity can include a PostID PostText a PostImage and a PostVideo of the post. As illustrated the SCN post entity can further include a PostStatus of the post e.g. active duplicate deleted flagged as inappropriate . In some embodiments a user can post the same or relatively the same information on more than one social network. In accordance with these embodiments a server running the SCN such as the mobile application server of can determine whether a post is duplicated across multiple social networks and cannot create a duplicate SCN post entity . Instead the server can utilize one or more of a SocialNetworkPost indication and a FacebookPost indication to indicate which of the multiple social networks the post is duplicated on. In accordance with these embodiments another user of the SCN can be able to observe one post by the user with an indication of each and every social network the post was made on. In one embodiment each post within the SCN can be identified by one or more of the UserID of the user that creates the post or the PostID of the post.

As illustrated the database further includes a local contacts list entity . In some embodiments the local contacts list entity can be utilized so that the user can link or synchronize the personal contact information on their device with the personal contact information of other users of the SCN. For example as illustrated the local contacts list entity can include a list of PhoneNumbers a list of FirstNames and LastName a list of Addresses and a list of Emails wherein each of the field entries corresponds to a contact from the contact list on the user s device. In some embodiments one or more of the contacts in the local contacts list entity can also correspond to another user of the SCN. In accordance with these embodiments the corresponding one or more contacts can be identified and the personal contact information stored in the local contacts list entity can be associated with a corresponding SCN account of the identified contact. Additionally or alternatively the local contacts list entity can be utilized to add new contacts to the contact list on the user s device. For example the user can add a new connection through the connection process described herein and the personal contact information of the new connection can be added or pushed to the contact list on the user s device. In one embodiment each contact list stored can be identified by the UserID of the user from which the contact list originates.

As illustrated the database further includes a SCN contact connection entity illustrated as FriendFly Contact Connection . In some embodiments the SCN contact connection entity can be utilized to indicate the connection between two SCN users e.g. friendship connection . As illustrated the SCN contact connection entity can include a ConnectionID of the connection and a ConnectionStatus indication which can indicate whether the connection is requested accepted or blocked. In some embodiments the SCN contact connection entity can further include a list of PhoneNumbers for the contact a list of Addresses for the contact and a list of Emails for the contact. In one embodiment this contact information can be synchronized with personal contact information stored on the device of the user such as a mobile phone accessing the SCN. In one embodiment each SCN contact connection can be identified by one or more of the set of UserIDs for the users of the connection or the ConnectionID of the connection.

As illustrated the database further includes a social network information entity . In some embodiments the social network information entity can include information about the user s account on a separate social network e.g. Google Plus . As illustrated the social network information entity can include a NetworkScreenName a Password PrivacySettings which can indicate whether the user s account is public or private and a ContactsList for the user within the social network. As illustrated the social network information entity can further include an AccountStatus of the user s account within the social network and a NetworkName and a NetworkType for the social network which can respectively indicate the name of the social network and whether the social network is a friend network a follow network or some other network. In one embodiment each social network information entity can be identified by one or more of the set of UserID of the user or the SocialNetworkID of the user within the social network.

As illustrated the database further includes a network contact connection entity . In some embodiments the network contact connection entity can be similar to one of the social network connections of . In some embodiments the network contact connection entity can indicate that two users are connected within the social network. As illustrated the network contact connection entity can include a NetworkConnectionID which can identify the connection between two users of the social network. As illustrated the network contact connection entity can further include a set of SocialNetworkIDs corresponding to each of the connected users and a FriendStatus for the connection. In one embodiment each social network connection can be identified by one or more of the set of UserIDs for the users of the connection or the NetworkConnectionID of the connection.

In some embodiments the database can include separate entities similar to the social network information entity and the network contact connection entity for each social network supported. For example as illustrated the database further includes a Facebook information entity . In some embodiments the Facebook information entity can include information about the user s Facebook account. As illustrated the Facebook information entity can include a FacebookScreenName a Password PrivacySettings a ContactsList and an Account status of the user s Facebook account. As illustrated the Facebook information entity can further include a NetworkName and NetworkType fields indicating that the social network is named Facebook and that the social network is a friend network. As illustrated the database further includes a Facebook contact connection entity which can be similar to one of the social network connections of and can indicate that two users are connected within Facebook e.g. friends . As illustrated the Facebook connection entity can include a FacebookConnectionID identifying the connection between two Facebook users a set of FacebookIDs corresponding to each of the connected users and a FriendStatus for the connection. In one embodiment each Facebook contact connection entity can be identified by one or more of the set of UserIDs for the users of the connection or the FacebookConnectionID of the connection.

As illustrated the database further includes a group member entity . In some embodiments the group member entity can be utilized to indicate which users of the SCN are members of a group within the SCN. As illustrated the group member entity can include a GroupID for the group and a RequestStatus for the user. In some embodiments the RequestStatus can indicate whether the user has requested to be a member of the group whether the user has been accepted as a member of the group or whether the user is blocked from the group. In one embodiment each group member entity can be identified by one or more of the GroupID for the group and the UserID for the user.

As illustrated the database further includes a SCN group entity illustrated as FriendFly Group . In some embodiments the SCN group entity can be utilized to store information about a group within the SCN. As illustrated the SCN group entity can include a GroupName for the group a Group Status for the group that can indicate whether the group is active PrivacySetting for the group that can indicate whether the group is public or private and a list of members of the group in a MemberList. In one embodiment each SCN group entity can be identified the GroupID for the group.

As illustrated the database further includes a local group entity . In one embodiment the user can be able to utilize the local group entity to group their SCN contacts into groups that are unique to the user. For example the user can wish to group each of their SCN contacts based on whether the contact is a family member a colleague from work an acquaintance from school a neighbor etc. As illustrated the local group entity can include a LocalGroupID for the group a LocalGroupName for the group and a list of members of the group in a MemberList. In one embodiment each local group entity can be identified by one or more of the LocalGroupID for the group and the UserID of the user.

The various entities of the database described herein can include more or less information than illustrated. In some embodiments the various entities cannot exist within the database or additional entities can be present. In some embodiments at least a portion of the entities can be combined.

At step a connect screen can be displayed on a computer e.g. wired or wireless device such as the first mobile user device of . In one embodiment the first user can have previously logged into the SCN using the first mobile user device . In accordance with this embodiment the connect screen can be displayed to the first user automatically or the first user can otherwise navigate to the connect screen. In one embodiment the first user can log into the SCN using the ScreenName and Password for the instance of the user entity that corresponds to the first user e.g. through the first user s account . In one embodiment the first user can click on navigate over or otherwise select a portion of the connect screen and upon doing so the SCN connection process can proceed to step .

At step a searching screen can be displayed on the first mobile user device . In one embodiment the searching screen can include graphics that are displayed to the first user during step . At step it is determined which users are nearby. In various embodiments this determination is made at least in part by the first mobile user device . In one embodiment the first mobile user device can utilize NFC or Bluetooth. In accordance with this embodiment an NFC circuit or Bluetooth circuit residing on the first mobile user device can search for other computers transmitting an NFC or Bluetooth message e.g. a discovery message . If the NFC circuit or Bluetooth circuit identify or discover any other computers transmitting the NFC or Bluetooth message the NFC circuit or Bluetooth circuit can obtain information about the user s of the other computer s . For example in one embodiment the first mobile user device can identify the second mobile user device of and obtain information about a second user or the second user s account using the second mobile user device . Thereafter the SCN confection process can proceed to step .

In one embodiment at step the first mobile user device can utilize GPS. In accordance with this embodiment the first mobile user device can obtain additional information from a server such as the mobile application server of . For example in one embodiment the first mobile user device can transmit an indication of the GPS coordinates of the first user e.g. of the first mobile user device to the server. In accordance with this embodiment the first mobile user device can thereafter receive an indication from the server of other users identified by the server. In one embodiment the server can utilize the GPSDistanceSetting of the user entity instance for the first user and can only transmit an indication for users identified within the specified distance. After receiving the indication the first mobile user device can proceed to step . In one embodiment the first mobile user device can utilize another technique that is not GPS NFC or Bluetooth in addition to or alternatively from using GPS NFC or Bluetooth.

At step the first mobile user device can display nearby user icons. In one embodiment the nearby user icons are displayed in a spatial arrangement. For example the nearby user icons can be displayed on the first mobile user device based on how close each of the other users e.g. the devices of the users are to the first user e.g. to the first mobile user device . In one embodiment the nearby user icons are displayed on the first mobile user device based on a determination of the degree of interconnectivity between the first user account and each of the other users accounts. In one embodiment an algorithm can be implemented with respect to each of the other nearby users. For example in one embodiment the algorithm can determine a numerical value to assign to a second user based at least in part on one or more of how many of the separate social networks the first and second users are already connected on how many connections to other users the first and second users have in common how many SCN groups the first and second users have in common how far away the first user s GPS coordinates are from the second user s GPS coordinates or other indicia. Once this numerical value is determined for each nearby user the user icons for each nearby user can be displayed on the first mobile user device based on the numerical value determined for each. For example icons for the users with a higher determined degree of interconnectivity can be displayed closer to an icon of the first user while icons for the users with a lower determined degree of interconnectivity can be displayed further from the icon of the first user.

Once the nearby user icons are displayed the first user can select to view a list of the nearby users e.g. by selecting the List View button . In this event the first mobile user device can proceed to step where the nearby user icons are displayed in a list form. In one embodiment the user icons are displayed from top to bottom based at least in part on their proximity or distance e.g. GPS from the first user. In one embodiment the user icons are displayed based on their degree of interconnectivity similar to step .

In either one or both of steps and each user icon can be accompanied by one or more of the name of the user e.g. first name and last name a screen name of the user a location of the user a birthplace of the user a residence of the user etc. In either one or both of steps and the first user can select to send an email invite to another user. The first user can wish to do this if the another user is not registered with the SCN or an icon corresponding to the another user is not displayed on the first mobile user device . If the first user selects to send the email invite the SCN connection process can proceed to step where an email invitation screen is displayed on the first user device . The first user can enter an email address of the another user. In one embodiments the first user can additionally or alternatively enter a phone number of the another user. In either event the first user can select to send the invite to the another user and the SCN connection process can proceed to step where an invite confirmation screen is displayed on the first user device . In one embodiment once the SCN connection process reaches step the SCN connection process can end.

Referring back to step the first user can select the icon corresponding to a second user. Upon selecting this icon the SCN connection process can then proceed to step where a connection prompt is displayed on the first user device . For example as illustrated the connection prompt can ask whether the first user would like to connect with the second user. In one embodiment the connection prompt can be an overlay to the screen displayed in step . Similarly at step the first user can select the icon corresponding to the second user. Upon selecting this icon the SCN connection process can then proceed to step where a connection prompt is displayed on the first user device similar to step which can be an overlay to the screen displayed in step . In either one or both of steps and the first user can select that they wish to connect with the second user and the SCN connection process can then proceed to step . In one embodiment upon selecting to connect with the second user the server e.g. mobile application server can create a session information entity instance for the connection session between the first and second user and the instance can be identified by a SessionID. In one embodiment in the event that the first or second user is removed from the SCN connection process e.g. an application running on either users device crashes or the device powers off either one or both of the first or second users or their respective devices can be able to resume the connection process by utilizing the SessionID. In some embodiments additional information about the connection session can be stored so that the first and second user can resume the connection session at approximately the same step e.g. one of steps described below the left off at before an issue occurred. In some embodiments initiating upon selecting to connect with the second user the server may send a push notification to an operator e.g. Apple or Microsoft of the device being used by the second user in the SCN connection process such as the second mobile user device and the operator may send a push notification to the second mobile user device . In some embodiments the second user may accept the push notification on the second mobile user device and another push notification may be sent to the first mobile user device . In various embodiments described herein any of the communications sent from the server to one or more of the first mobile user device or the second mobile user device may be via a push notification which may come an operator of the device.

At step it can be determined which social network accounts to display. In one embodiment this determination can be made at least in part by the server e.g. mobile application server . For example the server can determine whether the first user and the second user are already connected on one or more of the separate social networks. In one exemplary embodiment the server can make this determination based on the information contained in the database of . For example the server can utilize one or more of the social network information entity the network contact connection entity the Facebook information entity or the Facebook contact connection entity instances for one or both of the first or second users. Once the server determines each social network on which the first and second users are connected the SCN connection process can continue to step .

At step the first mobile user device can display a share screen. In some embodiments this share screen can be utilized by the first user to select any number of social networks which the first user has linked their SCN account to that the first user wishes to share with the second user. For example as illustrated in step the first user can have linked their SCN account with their Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Pinterest Google Plus Flickr Snapchat Meetup Tumblr and Reddit accounts. Also as illustrated the first user can select to only share their Facebook Twitter Google Plus Flickr and Snapchat accounts with the second user. In one embodiment each of the follow networks of the first user that are public can be automatically preselected e.g. checked on the share screen. For example in one embodiment the first user s Twitter account can be public and therefore the Twitter icon on the share screen can have a check mark indication next to it when it is first displayed. In one embodiment the first user can be able to deselect their Twitter account and the check mark indication can no longer be displayed. In one embodiment the server can determine whether the first user s Twitter account is public based at least in part on the PrivacySettings of the social network information entity instance for the first user s Twitter account.

In some embodiments each separate social network on which the first and second users are already connected can be preselected on the displayed share screen and the first user cannot be able to deselect these preselected social networks. In one embodiment an additional indication can be provided for these preselected social networks such as an outline around the icon of each preselected social network. As further illustrated the first user cannot have registered an Instagram or VK account with their SCN account. In some embodiments separate social networks supported by the SCN but for which the first user has not linked an account on the separate social network to their SCN account cannot be displayed or can otherwise be displayed as greyed out. In some embodiments the accounts displayed on the share screen can be based on the accounts linked through to the second user s account. For example if the second user has not linked a Tumblr account to their SCN account then the icon for Tumblr cannot be displayed or can otherwise be greyed out. Once the first user is done selecting which social network accounts they wish to share with the second user the first user can submit their selections. Once the first user submits their selections the SCN connection process can proceed to step . In some embodiments submitting the first user s selection can initiate the generation of a connection invitation for the second user to join one or more of the first user s social network accounts.

In some embodiments address book information can additionally or alternatively be shared during the SCN connection process . For example as illustrated in step an address book information icon can be displayed. Upon selecting the address book information icon the SCN connection process can proceed to step where the first mobile user device can display an address book specifics screen. In some embodiments the address book specifics screen can allow the first user to select any number of phone numbers email addresses mailing addresses etc. which the first user wishes to share with the second user. For example as illustrated the first user can have registered three different phone numbers one email address and one mailing address with the SCN. Also as illustrated the first user can select to share all three phone numbers and the one email address with the second user but can otherwise indicate that they do not wish to share their one mailing address with the second user. In some embodiments this personal contact information can be obtained by the server from the user entity instance for the first user. In various embodiments if the first user decides to share any piece of information from their address book this may automatically be shared with the second user without the second user selecting to accept the address book information. In some embodiments after the connection process is over and the first user has shared address book information with the second user once the first user changes the address book information e.g. a phone number or mailing address the second user may automatically see the changes may. As a non limiting example of a benefit of the various embodiments described herein the SCN may provide an easy to use method of keeping up to date information on other users e.g. friends family acquaintances etc. . After making this selection of specific address book information to share the first user can select that they are done and the SCN connection process can return to step .

In some embodiments the first user can set defaults for sharing accounts and other information. For example in one embodiment the first user can wish to always share their Facebook Google Plus and Snapchat accounts with other users in addition to their cell phone number and personal email. In accordance with this embodiment the first user can set up these defaults within their SCN account so that these accounts and address book contacts are selected by default each time the first user conducts the SCN connection process with another user.

In various embodiments screens similar to the share screen of step or the address book specifics screen of step can be displayed to the second user on the second mobile user device . Further the server can receive a similar selection of social networks or address book information which the second user wishes to share with the first user. Receiving this selection can be necessary before proceeding to step .

At step unique connections can be processed. In some embodiments an application programming interface API of a specific social network can require additional steps for sending or accepting requests to connect the first user to the second user on the specific social network. For example the API for Facebook can require that the first and second users utilize a browser to accept or reject a Facebook friend request. In one embodiment a browser within the application configured to implement the SCN connection process referred to as an in app browser can be utilized. In either event during step the first or second user can generate a friend request for the other user within the browser and the other user can accept the friend request within the browser. In some embodiments the server can be configured to generate the Facebook friend request and the first user the second user or both can accept the generated friend request through the browser. If there are additional unique connections to process they can be processed at step before or after the Facebook friend request is processed. After all unique connections are processed SCN connection process can proceed to step .

At it can be determined which share or follow connections to display. In some embodiments this determination can be made by the server. For example the server can compare the selections made by the first and second users during step . Namely the server can determine whether both the first and second users selected to share their social network accounts for each friend network and whether the first or second user selected to share any of their social network accounts for each follow network. Once this determination is made the SCN connection process can then proceed to step . In addition to or as a part of determining which share or follow connections to display in step the server can further initiate connection requests for each of the friend networks on which both the first and the second users selected in step . For example if both the first and second users selected to share their Google Plus accounts in step then the server can connect the Google Plus account of the first user to the Google Plus account of the second user. In some embodiments the server can utilize Google Plus account information for each of the first and second users stored in the database . For example in one embodiment the SocialNetworkID and SocialNetworkPassword of the user entity instances corresponding to the first and second users can be utilized to access the Google Plus accounts of the first and second users. Once the Google Plus accounts of the first and second users are accessed the server can initiate generating a connection request from one of the users and can initiate accepting the connection request by the other user e.g. a Google Plus friend request . In some embodiments initiating the connection requests cannot occur until later in the SCN connection process e.g. after step step or step .

At step a follow screen can be displayed on the first mobile user device . In various embodiment the information displayed by the follow screen is based on the determinations made in step . In some embodiments an indication for each follow network that was selected by the second user in step can be displayed. For example as illustrated in the follow screen the second user can have selected to share their Instagram and Tumblr account information with the first user and the icons corresponding to Instagram and Tumblr can be displayed in color. Also as illustrated the first user can select to follow the second user s Tumblr account but cannot select to follow the second user s Instagram account. In some embodiments an indication for each friend networks that both of the first and second users selected in step can be displayed. For example both of the first and second users can have selected to share their Google Plus accounts. As illustrated a Google Plus icon can be displayed in color with a check mark next to it which can indicate that the first and second user are now connected through their accounts on Google Plus. In one embodiment if one or both of the first or second users did not select a particular friend or follow network in step then an icon for that social network cannot be displayed or can otherwise be displayed as greyed out. Similarly networks for which the second user account does not have a separate social network account linked cannot be displayed or can otherwise be displayed as greyed out. Similar to the discussion above the first user can set up defaults for accepting the shared social network accounts from other users during the connection process. Upon selecting the social networks which the first user wishes to follow the SCN connection process can proceed to step .

At step a group screen is displayed on the first mobile user device . Once displayed the first user can select any number of groups which the first user wishes to add the second user to. For example as illustrated the first mobile user device can display that the second user account can be assigned to any one of a family office school neighbor dorm mate or bikers community group. As further illustrated the first user can select to add the second user account to the family and school groups. In some embodiments the first user can create or remove groups that the user wishes to use to assign their contacts to. In one embodiment the server can utilize the local group entity to display the group screen and to store the second user within the groups selected by the first user. Once the user has selected the groups they wish to add the second user to the SCN connection process can proceed to step where a connection confirmation screen is displayed on the first mobile user device . In some embodiments the SCN connection process can end at step .

Method starts at block where the first mobile user device controlled by a first user for example logs in the first user to a first user account wherein the first user account includes a logical connection to a plurality of the first user s social network accounts. In some embodiments the first user s social network accounts can include at least two of Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Pinterest Google Plus Instagram and VK.

Method next moves to block where the first mobile user device for example discovers a second wireless mobile device controlled by a second user wherein a second user account is associated with the second user. In various embodiments discovering includes discovering a list of nearby user accounts through the use of a near field or Bluetooth communication protocol e.g. Bluetooth low energy wherein the list of nearby user accounts includes the second user account. In some embodiments discovering includes discovering a list of nearby user accounts through the use of geolocation information wherein the list of nearby user accounts includes the second user account. In accordance with any of these embodiments method can further include displaying by the first mobile user device for example a plurality of user icons corresponding to the nearby user accounts in a spatial relationship wherein the spatial relationship is based at least in part upon a proximity of each of the nearby user accounts to the first user. For example the user account with the closest determined proximity can be displayed in the foreground while the remaining discovered user accounts can be displayed in the background. In one embodiment the spatial relationship can additionally or alternatively be based on a determined level of connectivity between the first user account and the second user account. For example a server such as the mobile application server of can compare the number of connections the first user account and the second user account have in common e.g. how many of the same Facebook and or Google Plus friends each of the user accounts have . This determination can be made for each of the discovered user accounts and the user account with the highest determined level of connectivity can be displayed in the foreground while the remaining discovered user accounts can be displayed in the background.

Method next moves to block where the first mobile user device for example selects more than one of the first user s social network accounts via input from the first user to the first user to the first wireless mobile device. In some embodiments the selected first user s social network accounts can include the social network accounts which the first user wishes to share with the second user. In accordance with these embodiments the first and second user can be able to share or connect on more than one social network at a time. In various embodiments the first user can only be allowed to select the social network accounts for which the first user is not already connected to the second user. In one embodiment these preexisting connections can be displayed or otherwise indicated on the first mobile user device .

Method next moves to block where the first mobile user device for example generates upon input from the first user an invitation to connect to the second user s account wherein the invitation includes a connection invitation for the second user to connect to at least one of the selected social network accounts of the first user. In some embodiments a server such as the mobile application server of for example can instead generate the invitation to connect. In accordance with these embodiments the first mobile user device can be perceived as initiating the generation of the connection invitation.

In some embodiments the invitation can further include personal contact information including at least one of a telephone number of the first user an email address of the first user and a mailing address of the first user. In accordance with these embodiments the first and second user can be able to exchange personal contact information in addition to connecting on more than one social network.

In some embodiments the method can further include sending by the first mobile user device for example the invitation to the second user account wherein the invitation is accessible through the second wireless mobile device. In one embodiment the second wireless mobile device can be the second mobile user device of . In some embodiments sending the invitation can be done via the network of for example. In various embodiments a server such as the mobile application server for example can instead send the invitation to connect. In accordance with these embodiments the first mobile user device can be perceived as initiating the sending of the connection invitation.

In some embodiments the method can further include displaying by the first mobile user device for example an invitation to connect from the second user s account on the first wireless mobile device wherein displaying includes indicating which of a plurality of the second user s social network accounts the first user can connect with. In some embodiments the indicated second user s social network accounts can include one or more of the second user s social network accounts that the second user selected to share with the first user similar to the social network accounts selected by the first user in block . In some embodiments the method can further include selecting by the first mobile user device any number of the indicated second user s social network accounts to connect with via input from the first user and generating based on the first user s social network accounts selected and the second user s social network accounts selected more than one connection between one of the plurality of the first user s social network accounts and one of the plurality of the second user s social network accounts. In some embodiments a server such as the mobile application server for example can instead generate the the more than one connection. In accordance with these embodiments the first mobile user device can be perceived as initiating the generation of the more than one connection.

In some embodiments the method can further include selecting by the second mobile user device for example more than one of the second user s social network accounts via input from the second user and determining by a server such as the mobile application server for example a list of social network accounts to include in the invitation based upon a comparison of the first user s social network accounts selected and the second user s social network accounts selected.

Method starts at block where the mobile application server for example receives a discovery request from a first user account via a first wireless mobile device wherein the first user account is associated with a first user and wherein the first user account includes a logical connection to a plurality of the first user s social network accounts. In some embodiments the first wireless mobile device can be the first mobile user device of . In various embodiments the logical connections to the plurality of the first user s social network accounts can be similar to the social network connections of .

Method next moves to block where the mobile application server for example discovers a second wireless mobile device associated with a second user account wherein the second user account is associated with a second user and wherein the second user account includes a logical connection to a plurality of the second user s social network accounts. In some embodiments the second wireless mobile device can be the second mobile user device of . In various embodiments the logical connections to the plurality of the second user s social network accounts can be similar to the social network connections of . In one embodiment the second wireless mobile device can be discovered through the use of GPS or a near field or Bluetooth communication protocol.

Method next moves to block where the mobile application server for example determines any preexisting connections between the first and second users for each of the plurality of the first and second users social network accounts. In some embodiments these preexisting connections can be similar to one or more of the connections of . For example if the first and second user are already friends on the Nth social network Google Plus for example connection can correspond to this preexisting connection between the users. Thus the mobile application server can locate this connection at block .

Method next moves to block where the mobile application server for example transmits an indication of the preexisting connections to the first wireless mobile device. In some embodiments this indication can provide sufficient information for the first mobile device to display indications of each of the social networks the first and second user are connected on and which social networks the first and second user are not connected on. In some embodiments this can allow the first user for example to select any number of the social networks on which they wish for the second user to connect with them e.g. the social networks on which the first and second users were not previously connected .

Method next moves to block where the mobile application server for example receives a selection of more than one of the first user s social network accounts from the first wireless mobile device. In some embodiments this selection can include any number of social networks which the first and second users were not previously connected.

Method next moves to block where the mobile application server for example generates upon receiving the selection an invitation to connect at least one of the second user s social network accounts to at least one of the selected social network accounts of the first user. In some embodiments this indication can provide sufficient information for the second mobile device to display indications of each of the social networks the first and second user are connected on which social networks the first and second user are not connected on which social networks the first user is requesting connections for and which social networks are otherwise available for the second user to connect with the first user.

Method next moves to block where the mobile application server for example transmits an indication of the invitation to connect to the second wireless mobile device. In some embodiments this indication can allow the second user to select any number of the social networks on which they wish to connect with the first user e.g. the social networks which the first user selected on which the first and second users were not previously connected .

Method next moves to block where the mobile application server for example receives a selection of the first user s social network accounts from the second wireless mobile device. In some embodiments the selected first user s social network accounts can indicate which of first user s social network accounts the second user wishes to connect with.

Method next moves to block where the mobile application server for example generates a new connection between one or more of the first user s social network accounts and one or more of the second user s social network accounts the new connection not comprising and of the preexisting connections. In one embodiment the mobile application server can determine that both the first user and the second user have both selected to connect their respective social network accounts on a particular social network. This determination can occur earlier at block for example. In accordance with this embodiment the mobile application server can generate a request to connect and accept the request to connect within the particular social network itself. For example the mobile application server can determine that both the first user and the second user have selected to share their Google Plus account information with each other e.g. in block . Thereafter the mobile application server can use the login information of the first user to generate a Google Plus friend request for the second user and can use the login information of the second user to accept the generated friend request. In some embodiments the mobile application server can determine that the first user has selected to follow the second user s Instagram account e.g. in block . Thereafter the mobile application server can use the login information of the second user to generate an Instagram follow request for the first user and can use the login information of the first user to accept the generated follow request. If the first user s Instagram is public then the acceptance of the follow request on Instagram s network can be automatic.

A person one having ordinary skill in the art would understand that information and signals can be represented using any of a variety of different technologies and techniques. For example data instructions commands information signals bits symbols and chips that can be referenced throughout the above description can be represented by voltages currents electromagnetic waves magnetic fields or particles optical fields or particles or any combination thereof.

Various modifications to the implementations described in this disclosure can be readily apparent to those skilled in the art and the generic principles defined herein can be applied to other implementations without departing from the spirit or scope of this disclosure. Thus the disclosure is not intended to be limited to the implementations shown herein but is to be accorded the widest scope consistent with the claims the principles and the novel features disclosed herein. The word example is used exclusively herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any implementation described herein as example is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other implementations.

Certain features that are described in this specification in the context of separate implementations also can be implemented in combination in a single implementation. Conversely various features that are described in the context of a single implementation also can be implemented in multiple implementations separately or in any suitable sub combination. Moreover although features can be described above as acting in certain combinations and even initially claimed as such one or more features from a claimed combination can in some cases be excised from the combination and the claimed combination can be directed to a sub combination or variation of a sub combination.

The various operations of methods described above can be performed by any suitable means capable of performing the operations such as various hardware or software component s circuits or module s . Generally any operations illustrated in the Figures can be performed by corresponding functional means capable of performing the operations.

The various illustrative logical blocks modules and circuits described in connection with the present disclosure can be implemented or performed with a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array signal FPGA or other programmable logic device PLD discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor can be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor can be any commercially available processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor can also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration. The various circuits and components described above may be referred to herein as a computer or device.

In one or more embodiments the functions described can be implemented in hardware software firmware or any combination thereof. If implemented in software the functions can be stored on or transmitted over as one or more instructions or code on a computer readable medium. Computer readable media includes both computer storage media and communication media including any medium that facilitates transfer of a computer program from one place to another. A storage media can be any available media that can be accessed by a computer. By way of example and not limitation such computer readable media can comprise RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that can be used to carry or store desired program code in the form of instructions or data structures and that can be accessed by a computer. Also any connection is properly termed a computer readable medium. For example if the software is transmitted from a website server or other remote source using a coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair digital subscriber line DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave then the coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave are included in the definition of medium. Disk and disc as used herein includes compact disc CD laser disc optical disc digital versatile disc DVD floppy disk and Blu ray disc where disks usually reproduce data magnetically while discs reproduce data optically with lasers. Thus in some embodiments computer readable medium can comprise non transitory computer readable medium e.g. tangible media . In addition in some embodiments computer readable medium can comprise transitory computer readable medium e.g. a signal . Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

The methods disclosed herein comprise one or more steps or actions for achieving the described method. The method steps or actions can be interchanged with one another without departing from the scope of the claims. In other words unless a specific order of steps or actions is specified the order or use of specific steps or actions can be modified without departing from the scope of the claims.

Further it should be appreciated that modules or other appropriate means for performing the methods and techniques described herein can be downloaded or otherwise obtained by a user terminal or base station as applicable. For example such a device can be coupled to a server to facilitate the transfer of means for performing the methods described herein. Alternatively various methods described herein can be provided via storage means e.g. RAM ROM a physical storage medium such as a compact disc CD or floppy disk etc. such that a user terminal or base station can obtain the various methods upon coupling or providing the storage means to the device. Moreover any other suitable technique for providing the methods and techniques described herein to a device can be utilized.

While the foregoing is directed to embodiments of the present disclosure other and further embodiments of the disclosure can be devised without departing from the basic scope thereof and the scope thereof is determined by the claims that follow.

