---

title: Wireless beacon and methods
abstract: A method for distributing micro-location-based notifications to a computing device includes receiving a unique identifier associated with a first entity, the unique identifier collected from a wireless beacon by a computing device proximal the wireless beacon, receiving identification of a second entity affiliated with the wireless beacon from the first entity; and in response to positive identification of the second entity as an authorized entity, authorizing delivery of a communication from the second entity, the communication executing on the computing device responsive to receipt of the unique identifier at the computing device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09491586&OS=09491586&RS=09491586
owner: Estimote, Inc.
number: 09491586
owner_city: New York
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20151201
---
This invention is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 463 582 filed on 19 Aug. 2014 which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 867 493 filed on 19 Aug. 2013 and to U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 867 498 filed on 19 Aug. 2013 all of which are incorporated in their entireties by this reference.

This invention relates generally to the field of wireless communication and more specifically to a new and useful method for distributing notifications in the field of wireless communication.

The following description of the embodiments of the invention is not intended to limit the invention to these embodiments but rather to enable any person skilled in the art to make and use this invention.

As shown in a method S for distributing micro location based notifications to a mobile computing device includes wirelessly receiving a unique identifier from a wireless beacon in Block S estimating a proximity of the mobile computing device to the wireless beacon in Block S confirming user access to data associated with the wireless beacon in Block S retrieving a notification associated with the wireless beacon from a computer network in Block S and presenting the notification on the mobile computing device based on the estimated proximity of the mobile computing device to the wireless beacon in Block S.

The method S can be implemented as a native application executing on a mobile computing device e.g. a smartphone a tablet and interacting with a wireless beacon to estimate a location of the mobile computing device and therefore a user relative to the wireless beacon. The wireless beacon can include a water and or dust resistant cover housing a battery a wireless communication module one or more sensors e.g. an accelerometer a gyroscope a temperature sensor etc. and an adhesive backing. In one example the wireless beacon can be placed i.e. statically arranged within a retail setting i.e. retailer such that when a user enters the retailer with his mobile computing device executing a native retail application that implements the method S the mobile computing device and the beacon can interact to deliver micro location product and or user specific data deals notification s etc. to the use. In another example multiple wireless beacons can be placed over various regions of the window of a display case within a bakery such that when a user enters the bakery with his mobile computing device the mobile computing device and various beacons cooperate to determine the user s position within the bakery and deliver product related information to the user through the mobile computing device based on the estimated proximity of the user to a particular foodstuff within the display case.

The method S can therefore function to handle communications with one or more wireless beacons to deliver timely location specific notifications to a user through a mobile computing device thereby supporting guiding and or improving the user s shopping experience within a retail or similar setting.

Block S of the method S recites wirelessly receiving a unique identifier from a wireless beacon. Generally Block S functions to handle communication between the wireless beacon and the mobile computing device i.e. the native application executing on the mobile computing device and implementing the method S . In one implementation the wireless communication module within the wireless beacon can include a Bluetooth transceiver that transmits a unique identifier ID and the Block S can capture the unique identifier and pass the unique identifier to Block S to confirm access to additional data corresponding to the particular wireless beacon and or to Block S to retrieve the additional data such as from a domain name system DNS . In this implementation the wireless beacon can transmit the unique identifier to any device within range rendering the unique identifier and any additional data transmitted with the unique identifier public i.e. not private but only devices with access to the DNS can retrieve information corresponding to the unique identifier such as retailer data or product pricing as described below. For example Block S can pass a hashed beacon identifier into the DNS and the DNS can return a true identifier of the beacon to the mobile computing device which is handled in subsequent Blocks to determine user access to the associated beacon data.

Alternatively Block S can handle wireless communication with one or more beacons over Wi Fi cellular or other radio frequency communication or via any other suitable type of wireless communication protocol. The wireless beacon can also encrypt a transmitted signal and Block S can receive and then decrypt the encrypted signal.

Block S can also receive additional data from the wireless beacon such as accelerometer data gyroscope data temperature data humidity data and or other relevant data from an accelerometer gyroscope temperature sensor humidity sensor and or other sensor arranged within the wireless beacon respectively. Alternatively Block S can retrieve such additional data from the wireless beacon once communication between the wireless beacon and the mobile computing device is confirmed or established. Block S can further handle wireless communication with multiple wireless beacons substantially simultaneously such as with up to eight discrete wireless beacons within range e.g. 50 m of the mobile computing device as described below. However Block S can function any other way to wirelessly receive a unique identifier or other data from the wireless beacon.

Block S of the method S recites estimating a proximity of the mobile computing device to the wireless beacon. In one implementation Block S functions to estimate a physical distance between the mobile computing device and the wireless beacon based on a strength of the wireless signal received in Block S and or based on a wireless signal received subsequently wherein Block S correlates a strong wireless signal strength with a first distance between the mobile computing device and the wireless beacon and a weak wireless signal strength with a second distance between the mobile computing device and the wireless beacon more than the first distance. In another implementation Block S transmits a data packet e.g. a pseudorandom number to the wireless beacon subsequently receives a response to the data packet from the wireless beacon e.g. the pseudorandom and estimates a distance between the mobile computing device and the wireless beacon based on a total time between sending the data packet and receiving the response i.e. a time of flight such as based on a known response latency e.g. turn around time of the wireless beacon as shown in .

Block S can also estimate an orientation of the mobile computing device relative to the wireless beacon. For example Block S can receive accelerometer and or gyroscope data from an accelerometer and or a gyroscope arranged within the wireless beacon retrieve accelerometer and or gyroscope data from a corresponding sensor s within the mobile computing device and then compare the mobile computing device and the wireless beacon accelerometer and or gyroscope data to estimate an orientation of the mobile computing device relative to the wireless beacon. Block S can therefore estimate both a location and an orientation of the mobile computing device relative to the wireless beacon.

In another implementation Block S can interface with two or more wireless beacons to determine a position and or orientation of the mobile computing device relative to the wireless beacons. In one example Block S triangulates the position of the mobile computing device relative to two wireless beacons within a retail setting by estimating a distance between the mobile computing device and each beacon receiving a distance estimate for the distance between the two beacons from at least one of the two beacons and combining the three foregoing distance estimates into a map of the position of the mobile computing device relative to the two beacons as shown in . In this example the mobile computing device and the beacons can estimate a distance to another object i.e. a wireless beacon based on time of flight of data transmitted between the mobile computing device and the wireless beacons based on signal strength or a based on any other suitable method or technique. In another example Block S implements a zoning technique to estimate a position of the user relative to one or more beacons. In this example each wireless beacon within a space can broadcast a signal of a particular strength such that wireless signals broadcast from adjacent wireless beacons do not overlap or do not substantially overlap and Block S predicts a user s location to be that of a particular location when the user s mobile computing device comes within range of the particular beacon. In this example non overlapping signal strengths can be set manually or learned automatically such by automatically or manually increasing the broadcast signal strength from a first beacon until a second beacon nearby detects the broadcast signal from the first beacon and then reducing signal power by a factor of eight i.e. P r 1 P r 2 for a spherical wireless broadcast volume. In yet another example beacons with a space can broadcast wireless signals of different strength such as in cycles of 0 dBm 4 dBm 0 dBm 4 dBm etc. and Block S can apply beacon signals of known strengths received by the mobile computing device to locate the mobile computing device relative to the beacon s .

In the foregoing implementations Block S can also retrieve a compass bearing from a beacon and implement the compass bearing to improve prediction of the location of the mobile computing device relative to the beacon s and or to improve a beacon map for the corresponding space or venue as described below.

Beacons within a space or venue can also automatically generate a mesh network and self calibrate broadcast signal strengths by estimating distances between beacons within the network. For example each beacon with a venue can listen for wireless signals e.g. of substantially equivalent power from all other beacons within range and save the strength and associated beacon identifier of each received signal. In this example Block S or other processor connected to the network of beacons can then merge these signal strength and beacon identifier data into a map and or graph of relative distances and relative positions of beacons. Block S can then implement the map and or graph of relative distances and relative positions of beacons to estimate a relative location of a mobile computing device such as described above.

Block S can handle visualization of the determined location and or orientation of the mobile computing device relative to one or more wireless beacons within the space such as by displaying such visualization in real time on a display of the mobile computing device. In one example each wireless beacon includes a color coded housing e.g. one of red blue yellow pink or green etc. and outputs a wireless signal containing an indicator of the housing color and Block S can receive the indicator of the housing color of the wireless beacon and display this color on the mobile computing device display. In this example Block S can adjust the opacity of the displayed color based on the estimated distance between the mobile computing device and a corresponding wireless beacon wherein the opacity of the displayed color is substantially proportional to the estimated distance between the mobile computing device and the wireless beacon. Furthermore in this example Block S can receive an indicator of the housing color of each of multiple wireless beacons and display a composite color that is a combination or blend of the housing colors of the wireless beacons within range of the mobile computing device. In this example the composite color can be a dynamic combination of the wireless beacon housing colors based on an estimated distance between each corresponding wireless beacon and the mobile computing device. Alternatively in the foregoing example Block S can pass the unique identifier of the wireless beacons to Block S Block S can retrieve beacon specific data from a computer network e.g. remote server including the housing color of the corresponding wireless beacon and Block S can implement the housing color retrieved in Block S to render the position and or orientation visualization on the mobile computing device. However Block S can display mobile computing device position and or orientation data in textual format or in any other form or format on the mobile computing device.

Block S can therefore estimate the location and or orientation of a mobile computing device relative to one or more wireless beacons of known location and or orientation within a space e.g. a retail setting . Block S can further pass this information to Block S and Block S can implement this data to select a particular notification or other data to push to the mobile computing device and display in Block S. For example a particular distance between the mobile computing device and a wireless beacon can be associated with a particular product within a retail space and Block S can thus implement position data collected in Block S to select a notification specific to products associated with each position of a mobile computing device relative to each wireless beacon with the retail settings. Because a user can be associated with the mobile computing device such as based on user login information within the native retail application Block S can also store time dependent estimated position and or orientation data of the mobile computing device with the corresponding user e.g. a user account such as to track the user s movement throughout the space or venue. However Block S can function in any other way to estimate the proximity of the mobile computing device to the wireless beacon and can implement this data in any other suitable way.

Block S of the method S recites confirming user access to data associated with the wireless beacon. Generally Block S implements a check to determine that the user is authorized to access additional beacon data prior to delivery of additional beacon related data in Block S. In one example a Retailer A specific native shopping application executes on a user s mobile computing device and the user enters a Retailer B storefront. In this example the Retailer A specific native shopping application implements Block S to receive a unique identifier from a beacon within the Retailer B storefront implements Block S to identify the unique identifier as associated with Retailer B and implements Block S to determine that a Retailer B specific native shopping application is not yet installed on the user s mobile computing device. Block S can subsequently prompt the user to install the Retailer B specific native shopping application on his mobile computing device and confirm access to Retailer B specific beacon data once the install is complete as shown in .

In the foregoing example Block S further selectively execute the Retailer A and Retailer B specific native shopping applications responsive to the determined location of the mobile computing device and therefore the user . In particular when the user visits Retailer B at a later date Block S can determine that the Retailer B specific native shopping application is present on the user s mobile computing device and thus automatically confirm user access to Retailer B specific beacon data while in the Retailer B storefront. In this example Block S can similarly determine that the Retailer A specific native shopping application is present on the user s mobile computing device and thus automatically confirm user access to Retailer A specific beacon data while in the Retailer A storefront. A retailer specific native shopping application can include additional shopping support systems particular to the retailer or to a retailer location such as a store map a store map aisle product cross reference search feature a shopping list a customer service request system etc. Thus when the user enters a particular storefront or retailer location Block S can interface with a wireless beacon arranged within or near the retail location to automatically trigger execution of a retailer and or retail location specific native application on the mobile computing device wherein the native application supports communication of addition product location retailer or other data to the user and offers additional support to the user throughout his shopping period.

The method S can therefore function within a retailer support system that further includes an software development kit SDK and or application programming interface API to support a representative of a retailer business location or other entity in creating a native application to interface with one or more related wireless beacons and to deliver beacon related data and notification to mobile computing devices such as indoor navigation marketing check in and or payment information based on communication events between a mobile computing device and various wireless beacons within a store market or other location. For example the method S can support a retailer in mapping a beacon identifier to a unique uniform resource locator URL associated with a particular product such that a web browser application executing on a user s mobile computing device is directed to the corresponding URL when the mobile computing device in proximity to the particular beacon and the corresponding particular product . In this example the web browser can set a cookie in the mobile browser to connect offline user interaction content the particular product and online user interactions such as by passing a product specific URL to the user s mobile computing device in response to receiving a particular beacon ID associated with the product on the DNS. The method S can further support the retailer in prioritizing beacon responses on a user s mobile computing device such as setting a preferred secondary and tertiary beacon response for a set of beacons with a particular space with overlapping beacon signals. Similarly the method S can support publishers in prioritizing content returned to a user s mobile computing device when beacons are detected nearby such as based on bids from publishers.

The method S can also support a beacon fleet management interface. For example the method can enable a retailer representative to access usage location status e.g. battery level and orientation e.g. compass bearing of various beacons within a particular retail space or location i.e. venue through a single online or native application based interface. The method S can similarly enable the retailer representative change a beacon name and or unique identifier etc. through the interface.

Block S of the method S recites retrieving a notification associated with the wireless beacon from a computer network. Generally Block S functions to communicate with a computer network e.g. a remote database to retrieve information related to the wireless beacon based on the unique identifier received in Block S and to cooperate with Block S to collect and present personalized micro location based notification to the user through the mobile computing device. In one implementation Block S passes the unique identifier received in Block S through a DNS as described above to identify the particular corresponding wireless beacon as shown in . Once the corresponding wireless beacon is identified by the DNS the computer network can select a notification or other data to pass back to Block S. In one example a particular wireless beacon can be associated with a particular retailer storefront and Block S can receive a welcome message e.g. Welcome to Caiti s Cakes and a pending offer or deal e.g. Buy one cupcake and get one free . In another example a particular wireless beacon can be associated with a particular aisle within a retailer store location and Block S can receive an aisle content description e.g. This is the households aisle and a coupon for a product within the aisle Today only 25 off hand soap . In yet another example Block S can pass distance and or orientation data of the mobile computing device relative to one or more wireless beacons the DNS can identify the corresponding wireless beacons the computer network can extrapolate a particular product near the user according to the mobile computing device location and or orientation relative to the identified wireless beacons and Block S can receive a product description and pricing information for the particular product.

The computer network can therefore maintain a database of location retailer product pricing and or other information for various beacons selectively access data within the database based on one or more wireless beacons proximal the mobile computing device and identified through the DNS and pass selected data to the mobile computing device via Block S. A representative of a retailer business or location etc. can thus access the SDK or API of the retailer support system described above to add modify and remove beacon related or beacon specific information in the database. For example the representative can arrange various wireless beacons throughout a store and implement the SDK to upload a map of the store product and wireless beacon locations within the store e.g. in spreadsheet format store and welcome information customer service call prompts and current and upcoming product information pricing and or deals etc. to the database. The database can then process the foregoing data to pair each wireless beacon within the store with one or more notifications products e.g. therefore product information etc. in response to receive one or more unique identifiers via Block S.

Block S can also pass additional data to the computer network. For example Block S can pass accelerometer data gyroscope data temperature data humidity data a compass bearing and or other data collected from one or more wireless beacons in Block S to the computer network. Block S can additionally or alternatively pass accelerometer gyroscope GPS location and or other data collected through sensors arranged within the mobile computing device to the computer network. Furthermore Block S can pass user data to the computer network such as a link to an online social networking profile of the user or a demographic of the user e.g. age gender occupation ethnicity etc. stored in a user profile managed by a related native retail application executing on the user s mobile computing device to the computer network as shown in . The computer network can then apply any of this data to customize a notification for a user prior to pushing the notification back to the mobile computing device. For example Block S can communicate a user visit frequency or a user loyalty indicator to the computer network e.g. based on the number and dollar amount of user purchases from the store within a period of time and the computer network can generate a product specific discount for the user accordingly. In another example Block S can send a user demographic to the computer network and the computer network can customize the notification based on the user s demographic such as by pushing a description of a male specific deodorant rather than a female specific deodorant to the mobile computing device for the user who is male in response to communication between the user s mobile computing device and a wireless beacon arranged within a personal hygiene aisle at a drug store. In yet another example Block S can push time dependent acceleration and position data of the mobile computing device to the computer network and the computer network can estimate the amount of time a user has engaged a product estimate a user interest in the product based on the estimated engagement time and customize a discount or depth of information to push back to the mobile computing device via Block S. In the foregoing examples Block S can pass such data to the computer network over time such as every ten seconds while the user s mobile computing device is in range of a wireless beacon within a retail store. For example the computer network can extrapolate a user s route through a store location based on wireless beacon IDs received by the mobile computing device and passed to the DNS over time and the computer network can predict a subsequent product of interest to the user based on previous estimated product engagement within the store and select a notification to suggest the subsequent product to the user and or to customize a level of information about the subsequent product to share with the user in a notification.

Alternatively Block S can receive general information from the computer network and implement any of the foregoing methods or techniques to customize notifications for the user internally. For example Block S can receive a notification generator specific to a particular wireless beacon or a group of wireless beacons and input user beacon or mobile computing device data etc. into the notification generator to output a customized notification for the user. However Block S can receive and or generate a generic or customize micro location based notification including any one or more of product information pricing information product reviews product pictures store or retails information customer service information in store guidance etc. based on an estimated position and or orientation of the user s mobile computing device relative to one or more wireless beacons.

Block S of the method S recites presenting the notification to the user on the mobile computing device based on the estimated proximity of the mobile computing device to the wireless beacon. Generally Block S functions to display the notification received in Block S for the user. In one example Block S displays the notification as a pop up notification on the display of the user s mobile computing device. In this example the pop up notification can be incomplete or contain only the general information and Block S can direct the user into a related native application to display the remainder of the notification to the user in response to selection of the pop up notification. Alternatively Block S can display the notification received in Block S directly wholly within the native application. Block S can additionally or alternatively trigger a vibrator within the mobile computing device to alert the user of the notification transmit an audible indicator of the notification through a set of headphones or a Bluetooth headset connect to the mobile computing device or through a speaker within the mobile computing device and or pass the notification through an intelligent personal assistant to verbally communicate details of the notification to the user. However Block S can present the notification to the user in any other textual verbal audible haptic and or other format through the mobile computing device and or a peripheral device connected to the mobile computing device.

In one example implementation a user approaches an entrance of a retail store location. A native application executing on the user s mobile computing device implements the method S and Block S retrieves a unique identifier from a first wireless beacon near the entrance of the store location as shown in . Block S determines that the user is moving toward and into the store Block S confirms that the native application executing on the mobile computing device corresponds to the retail store location and Block S communicates with a corresponding DNS and computer network to retrieve relevant notifications. In this example implementation Block S first presents a notification recites Hi Jim Welcome back to Big Box Store. Once the user enters the store Block S retrieves a unique identifier from a second wireless beacon Block S passes the second unique identifier to the DNS and the computer network and Block S presents second notification reciting What are you looking for today The native application can then prompt the user to enter one or more products or services currently sought. Alternatively once the user enters the store Block S can retrieve a pre populated shopping list or wish list saved on the computer network or locally on the user s mobile computing device and Block S can display the second notification that recites Want to use this shopping list today alongside the shopping list. Subsequently as the user moves through the store and Block S and Block S receive additional unique identifiers and estimate the user s position relative to various wireless beacons Block S can retrieve navigation directions from the computer network to direct the user to subsequent items on the user s shopping list. Alternatively Block S can download a store map populated with aisle product and wireless beacons locations and generate navigational commands accordingly to aid the user in efficiently navigating through the store location.

In the foregoing example implementation the method S can thus enable a micro location web mapping service to navigate a user through a store location. For example wireless beacons can be arranged throughout a store location and product within the store can be mapped with relation to one or more wireless beacons. Aisles and other static features within the store location can be similarly mapped with relation to one or more wireless beacons. Thus Block S can estimate the position of a mobile computing device relative to one or more wireless beacons e.g. down to one centimeter resolution and Block S can select receive or generate product and or navigational notifications for the user based on the store map that relates position of products wireless beacons and static store features. Thus when product static store features and or beacons are moved within the store location such as when a product line is changed or when the store location is renovated the map can be substantially easily updated and implemented without necessitating a map update across mobile computing devices used by the store s customers.

The method S can further handle transmission of data from the mobile computing device to one or more wireless beacons. In one implementation the wireless beacon is outfitted with a low range and or low power wireless communication capability e.g. Bluetooth Low Energy and the mobile computing device thus serves as a gateway to longer distance communication and or other types of communication protocol for a wireless beacon. For example the mobile computing device can be a smartphone with Internet capability and a native retail application executing on the smartphone can download a software update for a wireless beacon within range and then push an over air software update to the wireless beacon nearby. Thus in this example the mobile computing device can serve as a link to an external computer network to update software on a wireless beacon. If the mobile computing device is moved out of range of the wireless beacon before the over air update completes another mobile computing device passing near the wireless beacon at a later time can complete the over air update.

Additionally or alternatively wireless beacons within wireless range can communicate with each other. In one example if a first wireless beacon receives a software update from a nearby mobile computing device but the mobile computing device remains out of range of a second wireless beacon the first wireless beacon can transmit the software update to the second wireless beacon. The second wireless beacon can then transmit the software update to a third wireless beacon out of range of both the mobile computing device and the first wireless beacon. Wireless beacons can thus be daisy chained to effectively increase the wireless range of any particular wireless module a particular mobile computing device or any other connected wireless device. In another example a mobile computing device can transmit an over air software update to a first wireless beacon but the mobile computing device can move out of range of the first wireless beacon before the update completes. In this example a second wireless beacon can receive a remaining portion of the update and the first and second wireless beacons can share stored portions of the update to complete the update on each wireless beacon. In yet another example wireless beacons can transmit time dependent mobile computing device proximity and or a unique wireless ID of the mobile computing device to nearby wireless beacons such as to track user movement through the store.

One or more mobile computing devices and one or more wireless beacons can thus form a mesh network within a retail storefront a market a location etc. However the method S can function in any other way to present a notification to a user through a mobile computing device in response to communication with one or more wireless beacons nearby.

In one application of the method S Blocks of the method S function to guide a store representative in out of the box setup of a beacon. For example once assembled and activated e.g. powered a beacon can transmit a corresponding unique identifier in perpetuity until a battery is depleted . Once shipped and after arriving at a store a computing device within the store and loaded with a corresponding native retailer application can implement Block S to receive the unique identifier from the beacon and then implement Block S to confirm that the received beacon ID corresponds to a beacon assigned to and or shipped to the store. Blocks S and S can subsequently trigger the computing device to guide the store representative through beacon setup. In this example the native retailer application executing on the computing device can prompt the store representative to place the beacon in the store and then implement Block S to generate or update a map of beacons within the store. The native retailer application can also prompt the store representative to assign a deal a product or other information to the beacon or to an area within the store corresponding to an overlap between wireless ranges of two or more beacons. Thus the method S can function to automatically guide a store representative through beacon setup once the beacon arrives at the store location without necessitating syncing between the beacon and another device within the store and without necessitating a manual input into the beacon e.g. turning the beacon ON . However the method S can function in any other way to support a store representative in beacon setup and management and or to provide additional product and or beacon related data to a user during a visit to a store.

As shown in a method S for distributing micro location based notifications to a computing device includes receiving a unique identifier from a first entity in Block S the unique identifier collected from a wireless beacon by a computing device proximal the wireless beacon the unique identifier generated locally on the wireless beacon according to a rule assigned to the wireless beacon resolving the unique identifier into an identity of the wireless beacon based on the rule in Block S identifying a second entity affiliated with the wireless beacon based on the identity of the wireless beacon in Block S and in response to agreement between the first entity and the second entity authorizing delivery of a communication through a native application executing on the computing device responsive to receipt of the unique identifier at the computing device in Block S the communication related to the first entity.

As shown in the method S can additionally or alternatively include in response to disagreement between the first entity and the second entity rejecting delivery of a communication through a native application executing on the computing device responsive to receipt of the unique identifier at the computing device in Block S the communication related to the first entity.

As shown in one variation of the method S includes receiving a unique identifier in Block S the unique identifier collected from a wireless beacon by a computing device proximal the wireless beacon the unique identifier generated locally on the wireless beacon according to a rule assigned to the wireless beacon resolving the unique identifier into an identity of the wireless beacon based on the rule in Block S identifying an entity affiliated with the wireless beacon based on the identity of the wireless beacon in Block S receiving a designator of a native application executing on the computing device in Block S and in response to agreement between the entity and the designator authorizing delivery of a communication through the native application executing on the computing device responsive to receipt of the unique identifier at the computing device in Block S the communication related to the wireless beacon.

The method S functions to authorize delivery of a communication from a third party entity to a user through the user s mobile computing device in response to proximity of the computing device to a wireless beacon sufficient to enable wireless communication therebetween. Generally the method S can control a third party entity s access to messaging the user s computing device directly responsive to proximity of the computing device to a wireless beacon based on determined parity between a native application executing on the user s computing device and ownership of and or access definitions assigned to the wireless beacon. In particular the method S can be implemented to enable third party entities with granted access to the wireless beacon to transmit messages e.g. notifications to the user s computing device substantially in real time when the computing device receives a unique identifier from the wireless beacon and the method S can be implemented to prevent other third parties not previously granted access to the wireless beacon to deliver communications related to the wireless beacon to the user s computing device when the computing device comes within wireless range of the wireless beacon.

In one example a first commercial airline acquires various wireless beacons and arranges the wireless beacons around gates of a terminal hosting commercial flights served by the first commercial airline and the wireless beacons are each assigned a serial number and noted in a database as belonging to the first commercial airline. In this example a first customer of the first commercial airline can download a first native application related to e.g. hosted by served by the first commercial airline to his smartphone or tablet i.e. computing device and the first commercial airline can serve notifications related to the first commercial airline to the first customer through the first native application in response to receipt of a wireless identifier from the wireless beacon i.e. when the smartphone or tablet comes within wireless range of the wireless beacon . In particular the first native application can receive the unique identifier from the wireless beacon and upload the unique identifier to a first application server hosted by the first commercial airline the first application server can pass the unique identifier to a domain name system DNS e.g. in Block S to identify the corresponding wireless beacon and to confirm that the wireless beacon is owned by the first commercial airline hosting the first native application e.g. in Blocks S and S and the first application server can upload a timely notification to the first customer s smartphone for substantially immediate presentation to the first customer in response to confirmation of ownership of the wireless beacon by the related first commercial airline e.g. in Block S . However in this example a second customer can install a second native application related to e.g. hosted by served by a second commercial airline on his smartphone and the second native application can handle a unique identifier received from the wireless beacon by uploading the unique identifier to a second application server hosted by the second commercial airline the second application server can pass the unique identifier to the DNS e.g. in Block S and the DNS can identify the corresponding wireless beacon detect a disagreement between ownership of the wireless beacon and the second commercial airline hosting the second native application e.g. in Blocks S and S and reject communication from the second commercial airline responsive to receipt of the unique identifier from the wireless beacon based on the disagreement e.g. in Block S .

Therefore the method S can be executed to restrict e.g. prevent communications from the second commercial airline in response to proximity of a customer to a wireless beacon owned by the first commercial airline. In particular the method S can be executed to prevent a competitor of a first entity from delivering notification to a customer of the first entity responsive to proximity of the customer to a wireless beacon owned by the first entity. For example the method S can be executed on behalf of the first commercial airline to selectively share wireless beacon data and or authorize wireless beacon related communications according to permissions assigned specifically to the wireless beacon thereby preventing the second commercial airline from communicating an offer for a flight competing with a flight offering of the first commercial airline to the second customer s smartphone as the second customer walks passed the wireless beacon owned and operated by the first commercial airline.

The method S can also execute to selectively authorize notifications from secondary third party entities e.g. parties outside of the computing device the DNS and the entity in possession of the wireless beacon to a computing device responsive to proximity of the computing device to the wireless beacon. As in the foregoing example the method S can execute to enable an airport authority the airport terminal or other entity authorized by the first commercial airline to transmit communications to the first customer responsive to receipt of a unique identifier from the wireless beacon owned by the first commercial airline.

The method S can additionally or alternatively function to confirm access by the user through his computing device to data associated with the wireless beacon as in method S described above. For example a user can walk into a retail location with his computing device e.g. smartphone tablet the computing device can download a unique identifier from a wireless beacon arranged within the retail location once the computing device is within wireless range of the wireless beacon a remote server e.g. a DNS an application server can then upload the unique identifier e.g. in Block S identify the unique identifier as corresponding to the wireless beacon owned and operated by the retail location e.g. in Block S and Block S determine if a native application related to the retail location is installed on the user s computing device e.g. in Block S and enable communication of product and or retailer related information to the user through the computing device if the native application is installed on the user s computing device e.g. in Block S . The method S can therefore be implemented to enable substantially real time notifications to a user through a branded native application executing on the user s native application the notifications related to a retailer service provider etc. currently occupied or engaged by the user.

The method S can be executed by a computer system remote from the user s computing device such as by a DNS hosted on a remote server and distinct from an entity in possession of the wireless beacon or such as by an application server hosted on a remote server on behalf of the entity in possession of the wireless beacon. The computer system can be cloud based e.g. Amazon EC2 a mainframe computer system a grid computer system or any other suitable computer system. Blocks of the method S can additionally or alternatively execute locally on a user s computing device such as on a native application executing on the user s smartphone tablet a personal music player a personal data assistant PDA or other mobile computing device. For example Blocks of the method S can be implemented by a handheld e.g. mobile computing device such a smartphone a digital music player or a tablet computer executing a native retailer or service provider branded application handling real time delivery of communications to a user responsive to receipt of unique identifiers from local wireless beacons.

Block S of the method S recites receiving a unique identifier from a first entity the unique identifier collected from a wireless beacon by a computing device proximal the wireless beacon the unique identifier generated locally on the wireless beacon according to a rule assigned to the wireless beacon. Block S can similarly recite receiving a unique identifier collected from a wireless beacon by a computing device proximal the wireless beacon the unique identifier generated locally on the wireless beacon according to a rule assigned to the wireless beacon. Generally Block S functions to collect a unique identifier transmitted wirelessly from a wireless beacon to a computing device e.g. a mobile computing device such as a smartphone a tablet a personal music player a PDA etc. .

In one implementation in which Block S is executed remotely from the computing device the computing device can cyclically broadcast a request for a unique identifier such by transmitting a request over Bluetooth communication protocol on a two second interval. Once a wireless beacon comes within wireless range of the computing device the computing device can download a unique identifier from the wireless beacon and then upload the unique identifier directly to a DNS that converts the unique identifier into an identity e.g. a serial number of the wireless beacon. The DNS can then communicate directly with a native application related to the wireless beacon and executing on the user s computing device to deliver a related communication to the user as shown in . Alternatively the DNS can communicate directly with a particular application server related to the wireless beacon affiliated with an entity in possession of the wireless beacon or in possession of access to the wireless beacon to confer authorization to communicate a notification related to the wireless beacon to the user s computing device as shown in .

In a similar implementation once a wireless beacon comes within wireless range of the computing device the computing device can download the unique identifier from the wireless beacon and a native application executing on the computing device and supporting communications with wireless beacons can then upload the unique identifier to an application server related to e.g. hosting the native application. The application can then pass the unique identifier to a DNS that converts the unique identifier into an identity of the wireless beacon e.g. in Block S confirms access to the wireless beacon by the native application in Block S and transmits to the application server authorization for native application to communication wireless beacon related information to the user as shown in . Alternatively application server can execute a domain name system internally to execute Blocks S S and or S etc. locally and the application server can thus communicate directly with the computing device to deliver messages to the user responsive to communications between the wireless beacon and the user s computing device.

In yet another implementation a native application a system level process or other program executing on the computing device performs Blocks S S and or S etc. locally to collect a unique identifier from the wireless beacon to resolve the unique identifier into an identity of the wireless beacon and or to ascertain permission to deliver communications to the user responsive to receipt of the unique identifier from the wireless beacon etc.

The first entity from which the unique identifier is received in Block S can therefore include the wireless beacon a native application or other program or process executing on the computing device or an application server related to a native application or other program executing on the computing device. However the unique identifier can be collected in any other way and the unique identifier can be routed in Block S from the wireless beacon to any other local or remote application program process server and or system for resolution into an identity of the wireless beacon according to any other schema or schedule.

Block S can further recite receiving a designator of a native application executing on the computing device. In particular Block S can append a designator for the first entity from which or through which the unique identifier of the wireless beacon is collected to the unique identifier or group the designator for the first entity with the unique identifier. For example a native application executing on the user s computing device can broadcast a unique identifier request when the location of the computing device is within a threshold GPS location of a known location of a wireless beacon download a unique identifier from a local wireless beacon and upload the unique identifier to a remote server Block S executing on the remote server e.g. on an application server on a DNS can collect the unique identifier and a designator identifying the native application a version of the native application an entity hosting or affiliated with the native application and or a software developer of the native application. In this example Block S can thus selectively authorize communications related to the wireless beacon through the native application based on agreement between the native application the first entity as determined from the designator and an owner and or operator of the wireless beacon the second entity . In a similar example a system level process executing on the computing device can prompt and receive the unique identifier from the wireless beacon and Block S can retrieve the unique identifier in conjunction with a list of designators for native applications installed on the computing device and configured to deliver notifications to the user responsive to communications with local wireless beacons. In this example Block S can thus selectively authorize communications related to the wireless beacon through the computing device based on agreement between a native application the first entity on the list of native applications and an owner of the wireless beacon the second entity . In yet another example Block S can collect the unique identifier from an application server and Block S can pair the unique identifier with a designator of the application server such as a software developer name or number. In this example Block S can thus selectively authorize communications related to the wireless beacon through a native application supported by the application server based on agreement between the application server designator the first entity and an owner of the wireless beacon the second entity .

Block S of the method S recites resolving the unique identifier into an identity of the wireless beacon based on the rule in Block S. Generally Block S functions to identify the wireless beacon from the unique identifier received in Block S. For example Block S can translate the unique identifier into a unique serial number assigned to the wireless beacon. In another example Block S can translate the unique identifier into a pointer to a local or remote file or database specific to the wireless beacon. Alternatively Block S can translate the unique identifier into an identity serial number pointer address etc. of a manufacturing batch number a deployment group number an owner a lessee and or a deployment location etc. of or related to the wireless beacon. However Block S can resolve the unique identifier received in Block S into any other useful or relevant data pertaining to the wireless beacon.

The wireless beacon can store locally and intermittently recall a rule to locally generate a unique identifier that is not immediately resolvable into a useful value without access to the rule and the wireless beacon can then publically broadcast this unique identifier for collection by any local computing device. For example the wireless beacon can broadcast a universally unique identifier UUID such as including a string of characters e.g. a 128 bt hexadecimal number in which the string of characters is practically unique i.e. not guaranteed unique . The wireless beacon can also pass its own serial number stored locally in memory a unique identifier request counter value an interval counter value a time of day a date and or any other static value or variable value into the rule to generate the unique identifier that is practically unique among substantially all other unique identifiers broadcast from all other deployed wireless beacons over time.

In one example the rule for generating the unique identifier can be encoded onto the wireless beacon during its manufacture upon purchase by an entity e.g. the second entity or upon deployment of the wireless beacon into a space etc. The wireless beacon can then implement the rule to generate new unique identifiers over time during its deployment. For example the wireless beacon can index a request counter in response to receipt of a new request for a unique identifier received from a local computing device apply the state of the request counter and an internal serial number to the rule to generate a new unique identifier responsive to the request and broadcast the unique identifier with the state of the request counter for collection by the computing device accordingly. In this example Block S executed locally on the computing device or remotely can then pass the request counter value and the unique identifier into a reverse rule engine to which access is limited such as only to a privately controlled DNS to resolve the unique identifier into the serial number of the wireless beacon.

Alternatively the wireless beacon can systematically generate a new unique identifier for each subsequent time interval during its deployment such as by generating a new unique identifier every five minutes during its deployment. For example the wireless beacon can maintain an internal interval counter and index the interval counter forward every minutes apply the new interval counter value to generate a new unique identifier for the current time interval and publically broadcast this new unique identifier for collection by a local computing device. As in the previous example Block S can pass the interval counter value and the unique identifier into a reverse rule engine to resolve the unique identifier into a serial number of the wireless beacon.

However the wireless beacon can apply a time of day corresponding to generation of the unique identifier a time code a date of generation of the unique identifier a date code a time or date of receipt of the unique identifier at the computing device and or any other trackable variable to the rule to generate the unique identifier and Block S can extract this variable from a data packet including the unique identifier received from the wireless beacon to resolve the unique identifier into an identity of the wireless beacon.

Block S can therefore access a rule or a reverse rule engine related to that encoded into or stored on the wireless beacon to transform the unique identifier broadcast from the wireless beacon into useful information pertaining to the wireless beacon. For example substantially all deployed wireless beacons can be encoded with the same rule that outputs a unique identifier based on a serial number a counter value and any other static or dynamic variable value stored locally on a wireless beacon. Block S can thus resolve the unique identifier by accessing a private copy of the rule or a reverse rule engine and applying a received counter value and or an other variable value to the private copy of the rule to output the identity of the wireless beacon. Similarly one of a variety of distinct rules can be encoded into each deployed wireless beacon and Block S can test the unique identifier received in Block S against a copy of each distinct rule until a valid wireless beacon identity value is output. Yet alternatively Block S can extract a value from the received unique identifier correlate this value with a particular rule encoded onto the wireless beacon and apply the remainder of the unique identifier to a copy of the particular rule to determine an identity of the wireless beacon or an identity of the second entity an identity of an other entity affiliated with the wireless beacon a location of the wireless beacon and or a pointer or address for the wireless beacon etc. .

Block S can therefore be executed locally on the computing device remotely on an application server and or remotely on a server implementing a DNS and or in cooperation with a local or remote database of wireless beacon data private wireless beacon rules etc. However Block S can function in any other way to resolve an identity of the wireless beacon from the unique identifier according to any other schema.

Block S of the method S recites identifying a second entity affiliated with the wireless beacon based on the identity of the wireless beacon. Generally Block S functions to identify one or more entities granted permission to deliver beacon related communications to a computing device responsive to communication between the computing device and the wireless beacon.

In one implementation Block S passes a serial number of the wireless beacon resolved from the unique identifier in Block S into a database specifying wireless beacon ownership by serial number to identify a particular entity i.e. the second entity in possession of the wireless beacon. For example a lookup table can be updated with a serial number of the wireless beacon and an identity of the entity e.g. a customer number a customer name when the wireless beacon is sold to or shipped to etc. the entity. In another example a file specific to the wireless beacon can be generated when the wireless beacon is manufactured the file initially specifying a serial number and a configuration of the wireless beacon and the file can be updated with ownership information when the sold wireless beacon is sold or shipped to etc. the entity. In this example the file can be linked to a pointer specific to the wireless beacon Block S can resolve the unique identifier received in Block S into a pointer and Block S can access ownership information for the wireless beacon by retrieving the file via the resolved pointer.

Block S can therefore manipulate the identity of the wireless beacon determined in Block S to identify a primary entity possessing ownership of the wireless beacon such as a toy store a clothing store a car dealership or other retail location an airport airport terminal airport terminal gate a public bus system a train or rail system or other service provider or a school a park a restaurant a coffee shop an office a museum or any other type entity occupying or affiliated with any other type space.

Block S can additionally or alternatively manipulate the identity of the wireless beacon to identify a particular space occupied by the wireless beacon. For example the database or file containing wireless beacon identity data can specify a GPS location address room number and or room or location code etc. in which the wireless beacon is installed. Block S can therefore determine the second entity that includes or is related to a particular physical space.

Block can further identify a particular product or service affiliated with the wireless beacon based on the identity of the wireless beacon. For example the wireless beacon can be installed on or otherwise coupled to a particular product within a retail environment or showroom an operator of the wireless beacon can update a file specific to the wireless beacon with a serial number SKU number a manufacturer name or number and or a model name or number etc. of the corresponding product and Block S can retrieve any one or more of the foregoing product related data from the wireless beacon file shown in based on the identifier of the wireless beacon to identify the product.

Block S can also identify one or more other parties authorized to communicate notifications through a computing device through the wireless beacon i.e. response to communication between the wireless beacon and the computing device . In particular Block S can access a database beacon file or other data repository enumerating parties authorized to deliver communications through the native application responsive to data transfer between the wireless beacon and the computing device. The database or other repository can include a static or updateable list of parties provided such access to the wireless beacon such as set and controlled by the owner and or operator of the wireless beacon i.e. the second entity . For example an owner or operator of the wireless beacon can update a file specific to the wireless beacon with a name number IP address application server address customer number and or real location etc. of each company individual native application etc. authorized to communicate with local users through the wireless beacon and Block S can retrieve these data from the beacon file to identify secondary third party entities granted access to the wireless beacon.

In the example above in which the wireless beacon is owned by a commercial airline operating in a series of gates in a terminal of a commercial airport the beacon file can indicate that a terminal operator in the commercial airline s terminal and an airport operator for the commercial airport are both authorized to communicate with local users responsive to communications between the users computing devices and the wireless beacons such as in the event of a terminal or airport emergency a security alert an airport or terminal shutdown a runway closure etc. In another example the wireless beacon is owned and operated by a local retail location that sells products from a variety of vendors is arranged in the retail location on or near a product supplied by a particular vendor and is associated with a beacon file indicating that the particular vendor is authorized to deliver notifications to a customer s computing device responsive to communication between the computing device and the wireless beacon. In this example Block S can access the beacon file to determine that the particular vendor has been granted permission to communication through the wireless beacon and Block S can match a designator of a native application executing on a customer s computing device as received in Block S to the particular vendor. In response to the positive match between the native application and the particular vendor Block S can authorize the particular vendor to communicate with the customer through the affiliated native application responsive to communication between the customer s computing device and the wireless beacon owned and operated by the retail location distinct from the particular vendor. Therefore Block S can identify a retail location affiliated with the wireless beacon based on the identity of the wireless beacon and Block S can authorize delivery of a notification related to a product in inventory at the retail location through the native application in response to identification of an affiliation between the retail location and the native application executing on the computing device. For example Block S can authorize delivery of a notification specifying a limited discount price of the product for a user associated with the computing device as described above.

However a list of designators of secondary third party entities entitled to access the particular wireless beacon or a group of local wireless beacons can be populated in a table beacon file database or any other repository and Block S can access this repository in any other way to identify one or more entities including or other than an owner operator of the wireless beacon authorized to communicate with a user through the wireless beacon.

Block S of the method S recites in response to agreement between the first entity and the second entity authorizing delivery of a communication through a native application executing on the computing device responsive to receipt of the unique identifier at the computing device in Block S the communication related to the first entity. Block S can similarly recite in response to agreement between the entity and the designator authorizing delivery of a communication through the native application executing on the computing device responsive to receipt of the unique identifier at the computing device in Block S the communication related to the wireless beacon. Generally Block S functions to confirm parity between the first entity and the second entity before authorizing the first party to communicate with the user through the wireless beacon. In particular given suitable parity between the first entity and the second entity Block S selectively authorizes the second entity e.g. a native application an application server to deliver a notification to the user through the user s computing device substantially in real time after the computing device receives a unique identifier from the wireless beacon.

In one implementation Block S matches a native application executing on the user s computing device directly to ownership of the wireless beacon and authorizes the notification to serve a timely location specific notification to the user s computing device substantially in real time responsive to receipt of the unique identifier from the wireless beacon to the computing device. For example the user s computing device can collect a unique identifier from a wireless beacon arranged proximal a gate operated by a first commercial airline at a commercial airport a native application executing on the computing device can upload the unique identifier to a corresponding application server and the application server can pass the unique identifier and an IP address proxy address or other identifier of the application server to a DNS executing the method S as shown in . Block S executing on the DNS can identify the first commercial airline as an owner and operator of the wireless beacon based on a serial number of the wireless beacon extracted from the unique identifier in Block and Block S can match the IP address the proxy address or the other identifier of the application server to the first commercial airline and confer authorization for the applications server to serve a notification to the user through the native application executing on the computing device accordingly. In this example the first commercial airline can thus own the wireless beacon install the wireless beacon near a gate in which the commercial airline operates serve a branded native application for installation on customer devices e.g. smartphones the branded native application hosted on an application server on behalf of the first commercial airline the method S can thus enable the first commercial airline to deliver notifications to its customers through its own branded native application responsive to communication between its customers smartphones and its wireless beacons. Block S can therefore authorize delivery of a notification from the first entity e.g. the application server to the computing device in response to a direct match between the first entity and the second entity e.g. the owner operator of the wireless beacon .

In a similar example the method S can interface directly with the instance of the native application executing on the user s computing device to confirm presentation of a beacon related notification to the user. In this example Block S can receive the unique identifier and an address or other identifier of the native application directly from the computing device and Block S can match the identifier of the native application directly to an address or other identifier of the owner operator of the wireless beacon. Block S can supply authorization to communicate a beacon related notification directly to the native application given a positive match. Block S can therefore search for a direct match between the second entity and a designator of the native application executing on the user s computing device the application server etc. Block S can access a table file database or other data repository containing IP addresses proxies or any other designator or identifier of the first and second entities to search for such a match.

In another implementation Block S searches for a match between the second entity e.g. an owner an operator a lender and or a lessee of the wireless beacon and the first entity not immediately or directly affiliated with the wireless beacon. For example Block S can select a database of authorized parties specific to the wireless beacon and set by the owner of the wireless beacon parse through the database for a match to the designator of the first entity received in Block S and then transmit to the party or to an affiliate of the party e.g. an application server hosting a native application developed by the party authorization for the communication to the user s computing device. Block S can therefore authorize delivery of a notification from the first entity e.g. the application server to the computing device in response to identification of the first entity in the database of parties authorized to communicate through the wireless beacon.

In one implementation in which an application server hosting the native application executing on the user s computing device also executes the method S Block S can further include transmitting a notification to the computing device in response to a match between the first entity and the second entity the notification related to the first entity and designated for visual presentation on the computing device. For example Block S can elect a current notification specific to the wireless beacon current notification corresponding to a local cluster of wireless beacons owned by the second entity or authorized to the first entity or a current notification generic to substantially all wireless beacons owned by the second entity or authorized to the first entity and Block S can thus trigger delivery of the elected notification to the computing device such as over cellular communication protocol. Block S can also set the notification for immediate or delayed presentation on the computing device or add the notification to a queue of notifications for visual presentation to the user via the computing device. Alternatively Block S can assign a maximum threshold distance between the computing device and the wireless beacon to trigger visual presentation of the notification on the computing device. The native application or other process executing on the computing device can then estimate a distance between the wireless beacon and the computing device such as based on a time of flight technique as described above and the native application can present the notification when the threshold maximum distance is reached.

Block S can additionally or alternatively authorize transmission of a communication related to a position of the wireless beacon within a space affiliated with the first entity to the computing device. For example Block S can further include receiving a second unique identifier the second unique identifier collected from a second wireless beacon by the computing device proximal the second wireless beacon the second unique identifier generated locally on the second wireless beacon according to the rule. Block S can also include receiving a first wireless signal strength value of the first wireless beacon and receiving a second wireless signal strength value of the second wireless beacon. In this example Block S can then prioritize authorization of delivery of the communication related to the wireless beacon over authorization of delivery of a second communication related to the second wireless beacon according to the first wireless signal strength value that exceeds the second wireless signal strength value.

However Block S can match the first entity and the second entity according to any other accessible beacon related data and in any other suitable way and Block S can function in any other way to authorize and or trigger delivery of any other type of communication to the user through the user s computing device.

As shown in one variation of the method S includes Block S which recites in response to disagreement between the first entity and the second entity rejecting delivery of a communication through a native application executing on the computing device responsive to receipt of the unique identifier at the computing device in Block S the communication related to e.g. sources from branded for the first entity. Generally Block S functions to block or otherwise inhibit delivery of a communication related to the wireless beacon to the user s computing device responsive to communication between the computing device and the wireless beacon if the first entity does not sufficiently meet agreement criteria specified for the wireless beacon. Therefore Block S can execute if Block S returns a negative or false value. For example based on the second entity Block S can select a database of parties authorized to deliver communications through the native application responsive to data transfer between the wireless beacon and the computing device and Block S can then transmit a communication rejection for the communication e.g. to the application server or directly to the computing device in response to omission of the first entity from the database of parties. However Block S can function in any other way to reject delivery of a communication to the user through the computing device in response to disagreement between the first entity and the second entity.

In one example application the method S executes locally on the computing device. In this example application Block S includes downloading the unique identifier from the wireless beacon in response to a wireless signal from the wireless beacon exceeding a threshold wireless signal and Block S includes resolving the unique identifier into the identity of the wireless beacon locally based on the rule stored on the computing device. In this example application Block S can include detecting the native application installed on the computing device and related to the entity and Block S can include in response to detecting the native application installed on the computing device and related to the entity queuing a notification for presentation on the computing device responsive to receipt of the unique identifier from wireless beacon. For example Block S can include downloading the notification from a remote database to the computing device the remote database containing a set of notifications affiliated with the entity and the wireless beacon.

In the foregoing example implementation the method S can further estimating the proximity of the computing device to the wireless beacon and displaying the notification on the computing device based on the proximity of the computing device to the wireless beacon. Thus the computing device can render a form of the notification on a display of the computing device when the user is within a threshold distance from the wireless beacon. For example the computing device can render the notification for review by the user substantially in real time once the computing device comes into wireless range of the wireless beacon the computing device receiving the unique identifier substantially immediately once within wireless range of the wireless beacon. Alternatively the computing device can execute Block S to collect the unique identifier from the wireless beacon once the computing device is within wireless range of the wireless beacon Block S can download and queue the notification for presentation to the user once the computing device is within a threshold distance of the wireless beacon less than the distance corresponding to the maximum wireless range and the computing device can render the notification on a display of the computing device once the wireless beacon is detected within the threshold range of the computing device such as described above.

In another variation of the method Block S includes transmitting a door open request to a door controller controlling an automated door arranged at an entrance to a physical space in response to agreement between the first entity and the second entity the first entity affiliated with the native application and the second entity affiliated with the physical space. Generally in this variation the method can function to control access to a physical space such as a retail store or showroom by enabling only user s with a native application related to the physical space to enter there into. For example the method can trigger an automatic door e.g. an electric sliding door at an entrance to a store to open to a user outside the store only when 1 the user s computing device is near enough to the entrance of the store to receive a unique identifier from a wireless beacon arranged at the entrance as in Block S and 2 a native application related to the store is installed on the user s computing device. If the user s computing device is not loaded with the correct native application the method can prompt the user to download the native application in order to gain access to the store. Once installation of the native application on the computing device is confirmed the Block S can deliver or authenticate delivery of an access granted communication through the native application to thus prompt the user to enter the store. Once the user thus enters the store the method can then deliver product and store related information to the user through the native application such as based on further communications between the user s computing device and other wireless beacons arranged within the store. The method can also trigger or transmit to the computing device a prompt to trigger the native application to open on the user s computing device such that notifications and or other communications related to the store can be delivered to the user through the native application which can be branded for the store for products and or for services available within the store . In this variation Blocks of the method can execute locally on the user s mobile computing device on a door controller within the physical space on a local remote server within the physical space or remotely such as on an application server or DNS server that communicates e.g. over and Internet or cellular network with the user s computing device and or with a door access controller within the physical space.

The systems and methods of the embodiments can be embodied and or implemented at least in part as a machine configured to receive a computer readable medium storing computer readable instructions. The instructions can be executed by computer executable components integrated with the application applet host server network website communication service communication interface hardware firmware software elements of a user computer or mobile device or any suitable combination thereof. Other systems and methods of the embodiments can be embodied and or implemented at least in part as a machine configured to receive a computer readable medium storing computer readable instructions. The instructions can be executed by computer executable components integrated by computer executable components integrated with apparatuses and networks of the type described above. The computer readable medium can be stored on any suitable computer readable media such as RAMs ROMs flash memory EEPROMs optical devices CD or DVD hard drives floppy drives or any suitable device. The computer executable component can be a processor though any suitable dedicated hardware device can alternatively or additionally execute the instructions.

As a person skilled in the art will recognize from the previous detailed description and from the figures and claims modifications and changes can be made to the embodiments of the invention without departing from the scope of this invention as defined in the following claims.

