---

title: System and methods for searching and communication
abstract: Described are computer-based methods and apparatuses, including computer program products, comprising the steps of, or structure for, storing a plurality of expert profiles in a database, each of the plurality of expert profiles comprising information associated with a person having knowledge in a particular category, subject or topic; receiving search criteria over a network from a query source; selecting at least one of the plurality of expert profiles comprising information that satisfy the search criteria; and transmitting expert profile data for each of the selected expert profiles to the remote search engine, the expert profile data comprising data that defines a displayable representation of a corresponding expert profile, the expert profile data further comprising data that facilitates a client-initiated, real-time communication session over the network with a person associated with the corresponding expert profile.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09563707&OS=09563707&RS=09563707
owner: LivePerson, Inc.
number: 09563707
owner_city: New York
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150513
---
This application is a continuation of Ser. No. 14 500 502 filed Sep. 29 2014 which is a continuation of Ser. No. 14 317 346 filed Jun. 27 2014 which is a continuation of Ser. No. 12 725 999 filed Mar. 17 2010 which is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 12 535 539 filed Aug. 4 2009 which claims the benefit of and priority to U.S. Provisional Application 61 085 992 filed Aug. 4 2008 the entire disclosures of which are incorporated by reference herein.

The present invention relates generally to computerized methods and apparatuses including computer program products which can interact with standard search engines or other query sources to enable searches for and establish user communications with an expert e.g. a person having knowledge in a particular category subject or topic over a computerized network infrastructure.

There are various web search engines available for users to search for information on the World Wide Web WWW . Some search engines operate by storing information about web pages retrieved by a web crawler. A web crawler is an automated web indexing program that accesses a web site traverses through the site by following the links present on the pages and compiles an index of those links and the information available via the links. The compiled index is stored in a database for use by a search engine.

When a user enters a keyword search query via a client terminal into a web based search engine the search engine examines the index and compiles a set of search results that match the keyword query. The search results are usually transmitted back to the client computer for presentation through a browser application to the user in the form of an ordered listing of web pages images information and other types of files.

The techniques described herein provide computer based methods and apparatuses including computer program products which can interact with standard search engines or other query sources to enable searches for and establish user communications with an expert e.g. a person having knowledge in a particular category subject or topic over a computerized network infrastructure.

According to one aspect such computerized methods and apparatuses include the steps of or structure for storing a plurality of expert profiles in a database each of the plurality of expert profiles comprising information associated with a person having knowledge in a particular category receiving search criteria over a network from a query source selecting at least one of the plurality of expert profiles comprising information that satisfy the search criteria and transmitting expert profile data for each of the selected expert profiles to the remote search engine the expert profile data comprising data that defines a displayable representation of a corresponding expert profile the expert profile data further comprising data that facilitates a client initiated real time communication session over the network with a person associated with the corresponding expert profile. The expert profile data can further comprise data that facilitates a client initiated non real time communication session over the network with the person associated with the corresponding expert profile. The query source can be a remote search engine for example. The search criteria can be based on a search query from the remote search engine.

According to another aspect such computerized methods and apparatuses can include the steps of or structure for tracking information regarding each expert and determining a ranking of the experts and their corresponding profiles based on such information.

According to a first embodiment such computerized methods and apparatuses can include the steps of or structure for tracking for each of the plurality of expert profiles revenue opportunities corresponding to displays of the expert profile within prior listings of search results and tracking revenues realized from client initiated real time communication sessions associated with one or more of the revenue opportunities determining for each of the plurality of expert profiles a ranking for the expert profile based on a ratio of the revenues realized relative to the revenue opportunities and sorting the selected expert profiles for transmission within an ordered listing of search results to the query source according to the ranking determined for each of the selected expert profiles.

According to a second embodiment such computerized methods and apparatuses can include the steps of or structure for such computerized methods and apparatuses can include the steps of or structure for tracking for each of the plurality of expert profiles revenue opportunities corresponding to displays of the expert profile within prior listings of search results tracking online revenues realized from client initiated real time communication sessions associated with one or more of the revenue opportunities and tracking offline revenues realized from client initiated non real time communication sessions associated with one or more of the revenue opportunities determining for each of the plurality of expert profiles an online ranking for the expert profile associated with an online status of the expert and an offline ranking for the expert profile associated with an offline status of the expert wherein the online ranking is based on a ratio of the online revenues realized relative to the revenue opportunities and the offline ranking is based on a ratio of the offline revenues realized relative to the revenue opportunities sorting the selected expert profiles for transmission within an ordered listing of search results according to one of the online ranking and offline ranking determined for each of the selected expert profiles and transmitting the data associated with the selected expert profiles to the query source for display within the ordered listing of search results.

Any of the aforementioned embodiments can further include one or more of the following features. For example such computerized methods and apparatuses can further include the steps of or structure for tracking positions of the expert profile within the prior listings of search results applying weights to the revenue opportunities associated with the expert profile according to the tracked positions resulting in weighted revenue opportunities that compensate for position bias and determining the ranking including online and offline rankings for the expert profile based on a ratio of the revenue realized relative to weighted revenue opportunities. Such computerized methods and apparatuses can further include the steps of or structure for shuffling the ordered listing of search results prior to transmission of the expert profile data such that at least one of the selected expert profiles is moved from a lower position within the ordered listing of search results to a higher position. Online real time communication sessions can comprise at least real time chat sessions over a network and offline non real time communication sessions can comprise at least offline email sessions.

Other aspects and advantages of the present invention will become apparent from the following detailed description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings illustrating the principles of the invention by way of example only.

Disclosed are embodiments of computerized methods and apparatuses including computer program products which can interact with standard search engines or other query sources to enable searches for and establish user communications with an expert e.g. a person having knowledge in a particular category subject or topic over a computerized network infrastructure.

Such embodiments can include an expert search server system that stores expert profiles in a database that contain information associated with persons having registered themselves with the system as experts in a particular category subject or topic for the purpose of providing their knowledge as an online and or offline service available through the expert search server system. The expert search server system can receive search criteria transmitted over a computerized network infrastructure hereinafter network from various query sources such as search engines operating remotely from the system. In response the expert search system can analyze its database to select expert profiles satisfying the search criteria. Thereafter the expert search system transmits data associated with the selected expert profiles to the respective query sources for use including presentation of such profiles at the client computers.

For example the expert profile data transmitted to the respective search engines can include data that defines a displayable representation e.g. graphics and or text of the selected profiles for display as individual results within an ordered listing of search results. Further the expert profile data can further include data that facilitates client initiated online real time communication sessions and or offline non real time communication sessions over the network with the corresponding experts through the system. Accordingly the client computer receiving such expert profile data can attempt to establish communication on behalf of the end user with an expert identified in the search results. Online real time communication sessions can include real time chat sessions over a network or internet telephony based sessions and offline non real time communication sessions can include email or text messaging.

A search engine operating remotely from the expert search system communicates with the expert search server over a network such as the Internet. The search engine can be implemented as a stand alone server or as an embedded service of a web page. In particular implementations the search engine in communication with the expert search server system can provide listing of expert profiles as search results in response to user input search queries e.g. Ask.com 

A computer or other computerized terminal associated with an end user hereinafter client computer can interact with the search engine or other query source over a network. A computer or other computerized terminal associated with an end user that is registered with the expert search server as an expert hereinafter expert computer interacts with the expert search server over a network. The client computer and the expert computer can be any general purpose computer and preferably a computer that executes a web browsing software application. In certain embodiments the client computer and or the expert computer can be any computerized device such as personal digital assistants PDA and mobile devices. The client computer and the expert computer can also communicate with each other through the chat engine or other communication server of the expert search system for email text messaging internet telephony.

The database can act as a central source of data including the expert profile information for access by servers within the expert search system . In particular embodiments the expert search server and or chat engine can cache data obtained from the database reducing the volume of database accesses. In such embodiments whenever the expert profile information is updated on the database the database can cause the other servers services through an associated trigger system to update their locally cached data to reflect the changes made to the database . The triggering system not shown can be a computerized application service that interfaces with the database and provides notifications of database changes to the servers within the expert search system . For example the database can maintain the status of each expert registered with the expert search system . Accordingly the triggering system can be configured to send notifications whenever there is a change to an expert s status e.g. online or offline and available or busy.

Other query sources in addition to remote search engines can be used as well. For example a web banner can include code that when executed or otherwise invoked by the client computer automatically requests and displays listings of expert profiles by causing transmission of a hard coded search query to the expert search server. For example a web banner embedded within a web page dedicated to discussion threads and other information regarding Java programming can be used to present access to experts in Java programming available for contact.

Another query source can include so called category pages that present listings of user selectable categories e.g. Style Fashion Psychics Java Programming etc. . In response to user selection of a category link code embedded in the category page can be invoked by the client computer to automatically request and display listings of expert profiles by causing transmission of a hard coded search query to the expert search server.

Another query source can include various social networking sites e.g. Facebook Twitter through which users can post queries to their friends and or friends of friends. For example a social networking site can be configured with code such that when a user posts a query to the social networking site for publishing to his or her friends the code can be executed causing a server within the social networking site to transmit the posted query to the expert search server thus automatically requesting a listing of expert profiles capable of handing such query for display.

Another query source can include so called answer services such as Aardvark Using the Aardvark answer service a user can submit a question to the service via an instant message or e mail. In turn the Aardvark answer service identifies friends of the user such as Facebook friends that volunteer to answer the user s question. Thereafter the answer service forwards the answer from the volunteer back to the requesting user that originally posted the question. Embodiments of the present invention can complement such answer services by also forwarding such queries to the expert search server which in turn can provide the answer service with data associated with one or more expert profiles capable of handing such query and data to facilitate a client initiated communication session over the network with a person associated with the corresponding expert profile. Accordingly with such information either the answer service can transmit the question to the expert or forward the expert profile data to the requesting user so that he or she can facilitate a client initiated communication session including email or instant messaging over the network with the expert.

At step the expert search server stores a plurality of expert profiles in the database such that each of the expert profiles includes information associated with a person having knowledge in a particular category subject or topic. An end user can register as an expert with the expert search system through a user interface not shown presented at the expert computer by the expert search server . Upon completion of the registration process an expert profile can be created and stored in the database . In some examples newly created expert profiles can be approved manually by a support team having access to the expert search system automatic rules in the expert search system that validate portions of the newly created expert profile or any combination thereof.

The expert profile can include a expert profile identifier the name of the expert online chat address email address and or other contact information identification of one or more categories subjects or topics in which the expert is knowledgeable fee structure for services rendered by the expert through the system e.g. 0.50 per minute for online chat services and other relevant information. The expert profile preferably includes data including executable instructions defining a displayable representation of the profile e.g. graphics and or text describing the expert and preferably displayable through a web browser application executing on the client computer. The expert profiles can also be linked to a status table that indicates the current status of each expert as online or offline and available or busy for example.

At step the expert search server receives search criteria over a network from the remote search engine or other query source. In this example the search engine generates and transmits a request to the expert search server for a list of expert profiles that satisfy a search query. The expert search request can be triggered in response to automated or manual entry of search queries into the search engine. For example manual entry can involve the search engine receiving a keyword search query input from user via a client computer . Automated entry can involve the search engine being hardcoded with the desired search query. The request for experts can include for example the content of the search query requested format of expert profiles for display e.g. XML maximum number of expert profiles and a relevancy threshold that represents a minimum correlation between the search query and the expert profile information.

At step the expert search server selects one or more expert profiles containing information that satisfy the search criteria. For example the server can select matching profiles by referencing an index generated from the expert profile information.

At step the expert search server transmits data associated with the selected expert profiles to the search engine for display within a listing of search results. Preferably the expert profile data transmitted to the search engine includes data that facilitates client initiated online and or offline sessions over the network with the corresponding expert. Accordingly the client computer receiving such expert profile data through the search engine can attempt to establish communication over the network with an expert identified in the search results e.g. online via chat or offline via email .

At step the search engine causes the display of the selected expert profiles at the client computer . In particular implementation the listing of expert profiles can optionally be displayed in combination with other search results obtained by the search engine from other sources in response to a user search query. For example is an exemplary screenshot of search results from a search engine including displays of expert profiles obtained by request from the expert search system according to one embodiment. Specifically the graphical and textual displays of expert profiles A B are presented by a third party search engine Ask.com in the search results page in response to the search query regarding tarot cards.

As shown each display of the expert profiles A B includes a respective picture A B name of the expert A B and brief description A B. The user selectable More links A B can cause the client computer to present more detailed information from the expert profile such as the profiles shown in . The user selectable See More Experts link can cause the search engine to issue another request to the expert search server for another set of expert profiles that satisfy the search query as shown in . The stars A B and numerical values A B provide an overall rating for the expert and the number of reviews received for this expert respectively.

Furthermore the display of the expert profiles can also indicate the current status of the selected experts such as online or offline and available or busy. For example such status information can be presented to the user in the form of a callback button or other selectable link within the display of the expert profile. The callback button or link is user selectable causing the client computer to establish communication with the corresponding expert on behalf of the end user.

For example as shown in the expert profile data transmitted from the expert search server can cause the search engine to display a Chat With This Person Live link when the expert is online and available. By selecting the Chat With This Person Live link the user of the search engine website can establish an online chat session over the network with the expert associated with the expert profile A in real time between their respective computers through the chat engine of the expert search system . Alternatively where an expert s status is offline and thus the expert is not available for communication at that time the expert profile data transmitted from the expert search server can cause the search engine to display an Email This Person Now link . Accordingly the client can engage in an offline non real time email session with the expert.

In order for an expert to engage in online real time chat communication sessions an expert can download and install on its expert computer software referred to herein as an expert messenger application. An expert can obtain the software from the expert search server at the time the expert registers with the system . Alternatively the expert messenger application is implemented with code supported by standard web browsers such as a flash application code avoiding the need to separately download and install such additional software.

An expert can be considered online if they are logged into the chat engine . For example upon execution at the expert computer the expert messenger application establishes a communication link over the network to the chat engine and then transmits a message notifying the chat engine that the expert is online and available to accept chat requests through the system . Conversely when the expert chat messenger application is closed the expert is logged off the chat engine and the database is updated to indicate the status of the expert as offline and thus not available to chat with end users. Particular implementations of the expert messenger application can also enable an expert to initiate transmission of messages to the chat engine indicating his or her status. In turn the chat engine either directly or indirectly through the expert search server can update the current status associated with the corresponding expert profile in the database to indicate the expert s current status.

Once the user selects the callback button associated with an expert profile to initiate the chat the client computer executes a client chat application that presents a chat window through which to communicate with the expert. The chat window can be displayed integral to or a separate from the page from which the expert search query originated. Preferably users are not required to separately download or install any communication software on their client computers . Rather the client chat application preferably includes code supported by standard web browsers such as a flash application code.

The client chat application then directs the client computer to send a request to the chat engine in order to open a unique TCP socket connection over which to communicate with the desired expert. The chat engine includes communication logic necessary to facilitate communication between client and expert computers. In response the chat engine sends a message over the network to the expert computer notifying the expert messenger application of the user s chat request. Once accepted preferably all communications between the client computer and the expert computer occur through the chat engine via TCP socket connections. In other words the client chat application and the expert messenger application communicate over separate TCP sockets connections to the chat engine and the chat engine in turn delivers such communications over the appropriate destination TCP socket connections to the respective client and expert computers . Such communications between the client and the expert can be encrypted to preserve the confidentiality of the conversation.

In particular embodiments the expert search system can optionally require user registration and or payment authorization in advance of establishing the chat session with the expert through the chat engine . For example first time users can be required to create a user account prior to gaining access to experts over the expert search system . Users requesting services from particular experts can also be required to remit or configure payment in advance prior to communicating with the expert.

According to another aspect such computerized methods and apparatuses can include the steps of or structure for tracking information regarding each expert determining a ranking of the experts and their corresponding profiles based on such information and sorting the expert profiles according to their determined prior to transmission to a remote search engine or other query source.

A revenue opportunity is preferably associated with a user view of an expert profile. An expert profile can be deemed viewed by a user in the event that data associated with the expert profile is transmitted to the search engine or other query source for display. For example particular query sources can enable a user to conduct a search for experts through in a particular category e.g. Style Fashion . Each time a user selects the category for Style Fashion data associated with a list of expert profiles matching that category is transmitted from the expert search server to the query source for presentation to the end user for display. As a result each expert having profile data transmitted for display within a corresponding listing of search results is deemed to have experienced a revenue opportunity. Accordingly for each revenue opportunity the expert search server updates the information associated with the respective expert profiles in the database by incrementing a count representing the number of revenue opportunities hereinafter a revenue opportunity count .

The expert search server can also preclude certain user views of an expert profile in certain contexts from the revenue opportunity count. For example in some implementations of the expert search system a registered user can be given access to a personal page e.g. My Experts page in which to maintain displays of desired expert profiles. Accordingly user views of profiles in this context are preferably not included in the revenue opportunity count. Likewise the revenue opportunity count is preferably not incremented multiple times to correspond to multiple views of an expert profile resulting from for example a user navigating from a search results page to a page providing more detailed information regarding the expert e.g. by selecting the More link A B as shown in . Rather such the revenue opportunity count is incremented once to represent this scenario as a single revenue opportunity.

Additional information associated with a revenue opportunity can also be tracked. For example the tracked information can further include the profile identifier of the expert profile the current status of the expert e.g. online or offline a timestamp corresponding to the display of the expert profile within a listing of search results and thus viewing of the expert profile position of the expert profile in the listing context in which the expert profile is displayed e.g. category pages banners query based search results pages a category identifier if the context is a category page a banner identifier if the context is a banner and or a search query if the context is a search results page based on user query .

The position in the list refers to the actual position of the expert profile as displayed within a listing of search results. For example if the expert profile is displayed on the second category results page in the fourth position and ten results are displayed per page the position in the list for the expert profile is fourteen. Pagination refers to the number of results per page in the context that the expert profile was displayed. For example a category page can be configured to display ten profiles per page so the pagination is recorded as ten. However for a banner embedded within a web page the number of experts to return in a page may be variable and will need to be recorded individually for each banner.

Revenues can be realized from real time and or non real time communication sessions with a client in response to such revenue opportunities. Online real time communication sessions can include real time chat sessions over a network or internet telephony based sessions and offline non real time communication sessions can include email or text messaging.

With respect to online real time chat communication sessions for example between a user of the client computer and an expert of the expert computer the chat engine can map an identifier associated with the particular chat session to a corresponding expert profile such that revenues generated from session and other tracking data can be stored in the database for the expert profile.

With respect to non real time email communication sessions the expert search server providing a mail service or a separate mail server not shown within the system can manage local email accounts on the database for the respective experts. For example when a user selects link to email a corresponding expert the client computer is redirected to the mail service of the expert search server or a separate mail server not shown . A user interface can be displayed at the client computer through which the user can write and submit a message directly to the expert s email account in the system . Preferably the user interface comprises one or more forms through which the user can negotiate and or accept a fee for the expert s services. When the user accepts the expert fee by clicking on an Accept button in a form for example the expert search server is notified and thereafter updates the database such that the fee along with other information tracked for the particular email session is added to the corresponding expert profile. Once submitted the mail service server stores the email message in the expert s email account that is maintained at the database . In turn the expert search server notifies the expert of the incoming email by sending notification through the expert messenger application or a third party email account e.g. Yahoo . To obtain the email the expert can log into the mail service server and retrieve the message from his or her email account. A user interface can be displayed at the expert computer through which the expert can write and submit an email message to the end user customer. Preferably the user interface for the expert can also provide one or more forms through which the expert can negotiate a fee for his or her expert services with the end user.

 3 The user clicks on a selectable link to initiate a real time or non real time communication session with the expert in position fifteen.

 4 The user establishes a communication session with the expert hires the expert according to a particular fee or rate and subsequently purchases 30 worth of assistance.

In this example the tracking data including the revenue generated from the session i.e. 30 worth of revenue is stored in the database and associated with information regarding the corresponding revenue opportunity e.g. view of the expert profile on the category page . The expert search server by tracking revenue opportunities and any revenue realized from the revenue opportunities facilitates attribution of the 30 revenue yield to the user view of the expert profile and also tracks the lack of realized revenue to the other nineteen expert profiles considered to have received a revenue opportunity.

With respect to step the expert search server determines a ranking for each of the selected expert profiles based on a ratio of the revenues realized relative to the tracked revenue opportunities as show in Equation 1 ranking metric revenue revenue opportunities 1 

According to a first embodiment the expert search server determines a ranking for each expert profile based on total revenues realized by the expert from all communication sessions relative to the total number of revenue opportunities. Certain revenue and revenue opportunities can be excluded from the ranking calculation. For example chat or email sessions that are initiated with an expert from pages that are either bookmarked or otherwise stored by a user for direct access to the expert are preferably not considered revenue opportunities and thus not included in the calculation of the ranking metric.

According to a second embodiment the expert search server can determine an online ranking and an offline ranking for each expert profile based on respective revenues realized by the expert from online real time communication sessions and offline non real time communication sessions relative to the total number of revenue opportunities or relative to the respective numbers of revenue opportunities corresponding to the expert having an online and offline status .

Accordingly by determining separate online and offline rankings for an expert a ranking algorithm that is designed to rank experts having an online status higher than experts having an offline status can be compensated. For example in a system that ranks online experts higher than offline experts an expert may log into the expert search system to obtain an online status for the sole purpose of gaining a higher ranking even though they do not accept live chats other than to push users into offline sessions. Accordingly this second embodiment can avoid such situations by having the expert search server determine an online ranking and an offline ranking for all experts. As a result the experts are ranked according to the actual methods of communication despite their current status as either online or offline. For example if Expert A who is currently offline has a higher offline ranking than Expert B s online ranking Expert A Offline is preferably ranked higher than Expert B who is currently online.

In particular implementations the second embodiment can be modified to handle the special case in which an expert s offline ranking is greater than his or her online ranking. In this special case the expert search server can be configured to rank the expert according to his or her greater offline ranking even if the expert s current status is online e.g. if offline rank online rank then online rank offline rank .

According to a third embodiment the expert search server can determine a ranking that accounts for position bias associated with the display of expert profiles in prior listings of search results. Specifically for each of the selected expert profiles the expert search server can determine a ranking based on a ratio of the revenues realized relative to the tracked revenue opportunities such that each of revenue opportunities is weighted to account for position bias associated with the display of the expert profile within prior listings of search results.

Position bias refers to the tendency of users to commonly select the top search result provided in a listing of search results despite the quality of the underlying content. Furthermore once a user identifies a satisfactory result they typically do not continue down the list of search results. As a result the display of an expert profile is inherently biased according to its position within a listing of search results thus limiting the effectiveness of the revenue opportunity for that expert. Accordingly it is preferably to compensate or otherwise adjust the ranking of expert profiles that are repeatedly placed lower on a search results page by applying a weight to each revenue opportunity according to the display position of the expert profile within prior search result listings. As a result a revenue opportunity in which the expert profile is displayed towards the top of a listing of search results can be weighted less than revenue opportunities in which the expert profile is displayed towards the bottom of a listing of search results. Alternatively a revenue opportunity in which the expert profile is displayed towards the bottom of a listing can be weighted more than revenue opportunities in which the expert profile is displayed towards the top of the listing.

For example as shown in chart of the top 10 experts presented on a first search page will usually all have similarly high values e.g. quality values click through values etc. . However because the experts are presented in descending order from number 1 through number 10 a user may tend to pick from the experts in the topmost positions. This is because the user generally considers the experts in the top few positions to be the best results for their particular query. In another example users may not consider experts beyond the first expert to be of sufficiently high enough quality. As a result experts at the top of the list experience disproportionately higher click through rates as shown in chart of . Accordingly as part of the ranking determination step the expert search server can use click through rates recorded as additional tracking data to adjust the revenue opportunity count of each expert page view to follow the curve of . As a result the value of the revenue opportunity recorded for the experts in the topmost positions can be higher than the value for those further down the page compensating for the expert s placement.

According to a first embodiment experts can be sorted from highest to lowest based on their ranking metric obtained from Equation 1.

According to a second embodiment experts can be sorted to avoid over ranking so called outliers. For example if an Expert A makes 300 from one chat session resulting from one revenue opportunity e.g. one profile view then Expert A s revenue per opportunity is 300. Likewise if Expert B makes 30 000 from 200 chat sessions resulting from 10 000 revenue opportunities e.g. profile views Expert B s revenue per opportunity is 3. Based on this calculation alone Expert A is a higher ranking expert than Expert B. However whereas Expert B has realized significantly more revenue relative to a significantly greater number of revenue opportunities Expert B is more likely a more experienced if not better expert than Expert A. In order to accommodate for such disparity the range of ranking metrics determined in step can be weighted to incorporate statistical significance. Specifically when calculating a range of ranking metrics at a confidence interval of for example 95 the weighting can be adjusted to err on the lower bound of the range which can advantageously prevent users with lower volumes of revenue opportunities from being ranked too high.

For example the actual earning potential for an expert can be determined with a certain confidence level as follows. The inputs to this calculation preferably include a confidence level that represents a degree of certainty to which a statistical prediction e.g. mean value can be trusted a sample size that represents the current number of profile views earning opportunities a mean value that represents the average value earned per profile view and a standard deviation value that represents the dispersion of the overall data set e.g. individual fees collected by the expert from the paid sessions . Thus for a confidence level of 95 a sample size of 10 a mean value of 50 and a standard deviation of 20 a standard score can be calculated using any standard statistical techniques known to one skilled in the art. Thereafter the actual earning potential for the expert can be determined using the formula Mean Standard Score Standard Deviation Sample Size 

For the present example the actual earning potential for this expert has a 95 probability of being between 12.40 the mean of 50 and thus a range of 37.60 to 62.40 i.e. 50 1.96061215 20 10 .

In order to be conservative with the experts presented to the user the 37.6 estimate can be used to rank experts. To show how the preceding calculation can benefit experts with more views by changing the number of expert profile views should from 10 to 100 in the previous example the range of the potential earning opportunity value increases to 46.08 53.92. Advantageously the potential earning opportunity value is directly correlated to the number of expert profile views.

According to a third embodiment the expert search server can further sort the ordered listing of expert profiles by shuffling such that at least one of the identified expert profiles is moved from a lower position within the ordered listing of expert profiles to a higher position. As described above the position of an expert profile within a list of search results can bias the number of times the expert profile is selected by a user per view. By randomly shuffling an expert profile to the top the shuffled expert profile can be compensated for position bias and is given a better chance of being selected for hire by an end user.

In a particular implementation the expert search server can select one slot on each channel s display of experts and shuffle in an expert randomly from lower in the stack. For example page one of a category view on the website may display the experts as shown below 

Advantageously the expert Ranked 132 is shuffled into the list position 6 which gives the expert a better revenue opportunity. In cases with fewer slots for example such as an implementation with only two expert slots a lower ranked expert can be rotated into one of the two slots a certain percentage of page queries. For example a lower ranked expert can be rotated into one of the two slots on 20 of page views. In some implementations the lower ranked or shuffled expert is not inserted into the first few positions e.g. not into the first or second position to keep the top most experts within the first few positions since they have a strong revenue history. In some implementations a random spot from the lower positions e.g. positions three through ten is selected and the lower ranked expert is inserted into the selected position. Advantageously such random noise can be purposefully included in the sorting algorithm to give more revenue opportunities to less frequently displayed experts.

With further respect to step the data associated with the selected expert profiles and transmitted to the remote search engine server can include data such as executable instructions that facilitate the real time and non real time communication sessions over the network with the expert corresponding to the profile. The expert search server can transmit executable instructions to the remote search engine server where the executable instructions define a manner of displaying the identified expert profiles.

The following discussion relates to which illustrate various screenshot provided by one or more embodiments of the systems methods and computer apparatus as disclosed herein.

The above described techniques can be implemented in digital and or analog electronic circuitry or in computer hardware firmware software or in combinations of them. The implementation can be as a computer program product i.e. a computer program tangibly embodied in a machine readable storage device for execution by or to control the operation of a data processing apparatus e.g. a programmable processor a computer and or multiple computers. A computer program can be written in any form of computer or programming language including source code compiled code interpreted code and or machine code and the computer program can be deployed in any form including as a stand alone program or as a subroutine element or other unit suitable for use in a computing environment. A computer program can be deployed to be executed on one computer or on multiple computers at one or more sites.

Method steps can be performed by one or more processors executing a computer program to perform functions of the invention by operating on input data and or generating output data. Method steps can also be performed by and an apparatus can be implemented as special purpose logic circuitry e.g. a FPGA field programmable gate array a FPAA field programmable analog array a CPLD complex programmable logic device a PSoC Programmable System on Chip ASIP application specific instruction set processor or an ASIC application specific integrated circuit . Subroutines can refer to portions of the computer program and or the processor special circuitry that implement one or more functions.

Processors suitable for the execution of a computer program include by way of example both general and special purpose microprocessors and any one or more processors of any kind of digital or analog computer. Generally a processor receives instructions and data from a read only memory or a random access memory or both. The essential elements of a computer are a processor for executing instructions and one or more memory devices for storing instructions and or data. Memory devices such as a cache can be used to temporarily store data. Memory devices can also be used for long term data storage. Generally a computer also includes or is operatively coupled to receive data from or transfer data to or both one or more mass storage devices for storing data e.g. magnetic magneto optical disks or optical disks. A computer can also be operatively coupled to a communications network in order to receive instructions and or data from the network and or to transfer instructions and or data to the network. Computer readable storage devices suitable for embodying computer program instructions and data include all forms of volatile and non volatile memory including by way of example semiconductor memory devices e.g. DRAM SRAM EPROM EEPROM and flash memory devices magnetic disks e.g. internal hard disks or removable disks magneto optical disks and optical disks e.g. CD DVD HD DVD and Blu ray disks. The processor and the memory can be supplemented by and or incorporated in special purpose logic circuitry.

To provide for interaction with a user the above described techniques can be implemented on a computer in communication with a display device e.g. a CRT cathode ray tube plasma or LCD liquid crystal display monitor for displaying information to the user and a keyboard and a pointing device e.g. a mouse a trackball a touchpad or a motion sensor by which the user can provide input to the computer e.g. interact with a user interface element . Other kinds of devices can be used to provide for interaction with a user as well for example feedback provided to the user can be any form of sensory feedback e.g. visual feedback auditory feedback or tactile feedback and input from the user can be received in any form including acoustic speech and or tactile input.

The above described techniques can be implemented in a distributed computing system that includes a back end component. The back end component can for example be a data server a middleware component and or an application server. The above described techniques can be implemented in a distributed computing system that includes a front end component. The front end component can for example be a client computer having a graphical user interface a Web browser through which a user can interact with an example implementation and or other graphical user interfaces for a transmitting device. The above described techniques can be implemented in a distributed computing system that includes any combination of such back end middleware or front end components.

The computing system can include clients and servers. A client and a server are generally remote from each other and typically interact through a communication network. The relationship of client and server arises by virtue of computer programs running on the respective computers and having a client server relationship to each other.

The components of the computing system can be interconnected by any form or medium of digital or analog data communication e.g. a communication network . Examples of communication networks include circuit based and packet based networks. Packet based networks can include for example the Internet a carrier internet protocol IP network e.g. local area network LAN wide area network WAN campus area network CAN metropolitan area network MAN home area network HAN a private IP network an IP private branch exchange IPBX a wireless network e.g. radio access network RAN 802.11 network 802.16 network general packet radio service GPRS network HiperLAN and or other packet based networks. Circuit based networks can include for example the public switched telephone network PSTN a private branch exchange PBX a wireless network e.g. RAN bluetooth code division multiple access CDMA network time division multiple access TDMA network global system for mobile communications GSM network and or other circuit based networks.

Devices of the computing system and or computing devices can include for example a computer a computer with a browser device a telephone an IP phone a mobile device e.g. cellular phone personal digital assistant PDA device laptop computer electronic mail device a server a rack with one or more processing cards special purpose circuitry and or other communication devices. The browser device includes for example a computer e.g. desktop computer laptop computer with a world wide web browser e.g. Microsoft Internet Explorer available from Microsoft Corporation Mozilla Firefox available from Mozilla Corporation . A mobile computing device includes for example a Blackberry . IP phones include for example a Cisco Unified IP Phone 7985G available from Cisco System Inc and or a Cisco Unified Wireless Phone 7920 available from Cisco System Inc.

One skilled in the art will realize the invention may be embodied in other specific forms without departing from the spirit or essential characteristics thereof. The foregoing embodiments are therefore to be considered in all respects illustrative rather than limiting of the invention described herein. Scope of the invention is thus indicated by the appended claims rather than by the foregoing description and all changes that come within the meaning and range of equivalency of the claims are therefore intended to be embraced therein.

