---

title: Conductive film manufacturing method, conductive film, and recording medium
abstract: Disclosed is a method for manufacturing a conductive film in which a mesh pattern comprising a wire material is provided on a base material. Also disclosed are a conductive film and a recording medium. Image data representing a mesh pattern is created on the basis of a plurality of selected positions. On the basis of said image data, an evaluation value which quantifies noise characteristics of the mesh pattern is computed. On the basis of the computed evaluation value and prescribed evaluation conditions, one image datum is chosen as an output image datum.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09436089&OS=09436089&RS=09436089
owner: FUJIFILM Corporation
number: 09436089
owner_city: Tokyo
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20150323
---
This application is a Divisional of copending application Ser. No. 13 638 541 filed on Sep. 28 2012 which was filed as PCT International Application No. PCT JP2011 057582 on Mar. 28 2011 which claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. 119 a to Patent Application No. JP2010 084645 and JP2010 084647 each filed in Japan on Mar. 31 2010 all of which are hereby expressly incorporated by reference into the present application.

The present invention relates to a method conductive film manufacturing method for manufacturing a conductive film in which a mesh pattern made up from wires is disposed on a substrate as well as the conductive film itself and a recording medium.

Recently a conductive film has been developed in which a mesh pattern made up wires is disposed on a transparent substrate. The conductive film can be used as an electrode or a heat generating sheet. Not only can such a conductive film be used as an electrode for a touch panel or an electrode for an inorganic EL element and organic EL element or a solar cell but the conductive film may also be applied to a portion of a defroster defrosting device a window glass of a vehicle etc. for example.

Depending on the use of the aforementioned various products cases are known to occur in which such a mesh pattern produces considerable granular noise which obstructs the visibility of objects to be observed. Various techniques have been proposed in which by arranging the same or different mesh patterns in a regular or irregular manner such granular noise is suppressed whereby the visibility of objects to be observed can be improved.

For example in Japanese Laid Open Patent Publication 2009 094467 an image display device is disclosed having an electromagnetic shielding film and a moire moir preventing film attached thereto wherein the electromagnetic shielding film has a conductive portion and an opening portion and the moire preventing film has a moire preventing part see paragraph 0063 and FIGS. 1 10A and 10B of the patent publication . As a result of this structure localized increases of an integrated amount of transmitted light are suppressed and a nearly constant integrated amount can be realized over the entirety of the film. In other words by combining the conductive portion and the opening portion potential formation of mesh patterns is eliminated making it difficult for moire patterns to occur.

Further in Japanese Laid Open Patent Publication 2009 117683 a device and a method are disclosed in which two dimensional power spectra are calculated respectively in relation to image data representing a pixel array pattern and an electromagnetic wave shielding pattern and the shape of the electromagnetic wave shielding pattern is determined such that the difference in spatial frequency corresponding to peaks thereof exceeds a predetermined value see paragraphs 0014 and 0024 of the patent publication . Consequently generation of moire patterns can be suppressed whereby an increase in surface resistivity and degradation in transparency can be avoided.

Furthermore as shown in according to Japanese Laid Open Patent Publication No. 2009 137455 a window for a riding movable body and the shape of a pattern PT thereof in plan view are disclosed having a mesh layer in which rounded arcuate conductive wires from which portions have been cutout are arranged repeatedly in a lattice shape and respective ends of the arcuate wires are connected to the vicinity of a center portion of another adjacent arcuate wire see paragraph 0029 and FIG. 3 of the patent publication . In accordance therewith it is noted that not only visibility but also shielding of electromagnetic waves as well as resistance to breakage can be improved.

Further as shown in according to Japanese Laid Open Patent Publication No. 2009 016700 a transparent conductive substrate and the shape of a pattern PT thereof as viewed in plan are disclosed which is manufactured using a solution i.e. a self organized metal particle solution which forms a mesh like structure naturally on the substrate if one side of the substrate is coated and then left untreated see paragraphs 0022 to 0024 and FIG. 1 of the patent publication . In accordance therewith it is noted that an irregular mesh like structure can be obtained in which moire phenomena do not occur.

Moreover as shown in according to Japanese Laid Open Patent Publication No. 2009 302439 a light transmissive electromagnetic shield material and the shape of a pattern PT thereof as viewed in plan are disclosed in which an electromagnetic shield layer has a sea region structure in a sea island configuration wherein the shapes of island regions made up from openings surrounded by the electromagnetic shield layer differ mutually from each other see paragraphs 0011 to 0015 and FIG. 1 B of the patent publication . In accordance therewith it is noted that both optical transparency and electromagnetic shielding are improved without the occurrence of moire patterns.

However with the patterns PT PT disclosed in Japanese Laid Open Patent Publication No. 2009 137455 and Japanese Laid Open Patent Publication No. 2009 16700 there are problems with such pattern configurations in relation to further reducing granular noise and improving visibility.

For example in the mesh pattern PT of Japanese Laid Open Patent Publication No. 2009 137455 since the arcuate wires are repeatedly arranged in a lattice shape the periodicity of the wires is extremely high. More specifically if the power spectrum of the pattern PT is calculated it is predicted that the spatial frequency band corresponding to an inverse of the interval at which the wires are arranged has a sharp peak. In this case for improving visibility of the pattern PT the size diameter of the arcs must be made small.

Further with the mesh shaped pattern PT of Japanese Laid Open Patent Publication No. 2009 016700 since the shape and size of the mesh is uneven the irregularity thereof is extremely high. More specifically if the power spectrum of the pattern PT is calculated the power spectrum is predicted to be of a substantially constant value irrespective of the spatial frequency band close to the characteristics of white noise . For further improving visibility of the pattern PT the self organizational size thereof must be made small.

If this is done however in either the window for a riding movable body of Japanese Laid Open Patent Publication No. 2009 137455 or the transparent conductive substrate of Japanese Laid Open Patent Publication No. 2009 016700 an inconvenience results in that optical transmittance and productivity are reduced for the purpose of improving visibility.

Furthermore since the pattern PT disclosed in Japanese Laid Open Patent Publication No. 2009 302439 is not configured in a mesh shape a variance occurs in the wiring shape of the cutting plane. In the case that the pattern PT is used as an electrode for example an inconvenience results in that a stable power capability cannot be obtained.

The present invention has been made in order to address and solve the aforementioned problems and has the object of providing a conductive film and a manufacturing method for a conductive film having a stable power capability even after being cut which is capable of decreasing granular noise caused by the pattern while also significantly improving the visibility of objects to be observed. Further the present invention has the object of providing a recording medium storing a program for enabling a computer to create output image data used in manufacturing such a conductive film.

According to the present invention a method for manufacturing a conductive film comprises a position selecting step for selecting plural positions from among a predetermined two dimensional image region an image data generating step for generating image data representing the pattern of a mesh pattern based on the selected plural positions an evaluation value calculating step for calculating an evaluation value obtained by quantifying noise characteristics of the mesh pattern based on the generated image data an image data determining step for determining as output image data one of the image data based on the calculated evaluation value and predetermined evaluation conditions and a forming step of outputting and forming a wire material on a substrate material based on the determined output image data to thereby manufacture the conductive film having the mesh pattern.

In the foregoing manner since the evaluation value calculating step for calculating an evaluation value obtained by quantifying noise characteristics of the mesh pattern based on the generated image data and the image data determining step for determining as output image data one of the image data based on the calculated evaluation value and predetermined evaluation conditions are provided the form of a mesh pattern having noise characteristics that satisfy the predetermined evaluation conditions can be determined. Stated otherwise by suitably controlling the noise characteristics of the mesh pattern the sensation of noise can be reduced.

Further the method for manufacturing a conductive film may further comprise a structural pattern input step of inputting visual information of the pattern material in relation to visibility of the structural pattern in the case that a pattern material for forming a structural pattern having a pattern different from the pattern of the mesh pattern is superimposed on the conductive film and visual confirmation thereof is performed and an image information estimating step of estimating image information of the structural pattern based on the input visual information of the pattern material wherein based on the estimated structural pattern image information the image data generating step may generate the image data representing a pattern in which the structural pattern is superimposed on the mesh pattern. Owing thereto while considering an actual mode of use including the structural pattern noise characteristics can be optimized. In particular moire patterns generated by the mesh pattern and the structural pattern can be suppressed.

Furthermore in the visual information there may be included at least one of a type a color value an optical transmittance and an optical reflectance of the pattern material and an arrangement position a unit shape and a unit size of the structural pattern is included in the visual information of the pattern material.

Preferably the method for manufacturing a conductive film further comprises a first input step of inputting visual information of the wire material in relation to the visibility of the mesh pattern a second input step of inputting visual information of the substrate material in relation to the visibility of the mesh pattern and an estimating step of estimating image information of the mesh pattern based on the input visual information of the wire material and the substrate material wherein in the image data generating step the image data is generated based on the estimated image information of the mesh pattern.

Further preferably the evaluation value is an RMS granularity corrected by a human visual response characteristic function.

Further the corrected RMS granularity may be an RMS granularity calculated using new image data obtained by implementing a filtering process corresponding to the human visual response characteristic function with respect to the image data.

Furthermore in the image data generating step a mesh shaped pattern may be formed from the plural positions using a Delaunay triangulation method whereby image data representing the pattern is created.

Furthermore in the image data generating step a mesh shaped pattern may be formed from the plural positions using a Voronoi diagram whereby image data representing the pattern is created.

Further the method for manufacturing a conductive film preferably further comprises a position updating step of respectively updating part of the plural positions with other positions based on the evaluation value wherein the position updating step the image data generating step and the evaluation value calculating step are repeated successively and the output image data is determined by the image data determining step.

In the position updating step preferably the part of the plural positions are updated with the other positions respectively using a simulated annealing method.

A conductive film according to the present invention is manufactured utilizing any of the aforementioned manufacturing methods.

A conductive film according to the present invention includes a mesh pattern comprising a plurality of polygonal meshes wherein the mesh pattern is formed such that in relation to a power spectrum of a centroid position distribution of the meshes an average intensity in a spatial frequency band higher than a predetermined spatial frequency is greater than an average intensity in a spatial frequency band lower than the predetermined spatial frequency.

Further the predetermined spatial frequency preferably is a spatial frequency at which a human visual response characteristic corresponds to 5 of a maximum response thereof.

Furthermore the human visual response characteristic may be a visual response characteristic obtained based on a Dooley Shaw function at a visibility distance of 300 mm wherein the predetermined spatial frequency is 6 cycle mm.

According to the present invention there is provided a recording medium storing a program for enabling a computer to create output image data for use in manufacturing a conductive film wherein the program further enables the computer to function as a position selecting unit for selecting plural positions from among a predetermined two dimensional image region an image data generating unit for generating image data representing the pattern of a mesh pattern based on the plural positions selected by the position selecting unit an evaluation value calculating unit for calculating an evaluation value obtained by quantifying noise characteristics of the mesh pattern based on the image data generated by the image data generating unit and an image data determining unit for determining as output image data one of the image data based on the evaluation value calculated by the evaluation value calculating unit and predetermined evaluation conditions.

According to the conductive film manufacturing method the conductive film and the storage medium of the present invention image data representative of the pattern of a mesh pattern is generated based on the plural selected positions an evaluation value is calculated by quantifying noise characteristics of the mesh pattern based on the generated image data and one of the plural image data is determined as output image data based on the calculated evaluation value and predetermined evaluation conditions. Therefore the form of a mesh pattern having noise characteristics that satisfy the predetermined evaluation condition can be determined. Stated otherwise by optimally controlling the noise characteristics of the mesh pattern the sensation of noise can be reduced.

According to the conductive film of the present invention in relation to a power spectrum of a centroid position distribution of respective meshes a mesh pattern is formed such that an average intensity in a spatial frequency band higher than a predetermined spatial frequency is greater than an average intensity in a spatial frequency band lower than the predetermined spatial frequency. Therefore compared to a low spatial frequency band the noise level on the side of the high spatial frequency band is relatively large. Although human visual perception has a high response characteristic in a low spatial frequency band in mid to high spatial frequency bands properties of the response characteristic decrease rapidly and thus the sensation of noise as perceived visually by humans tends to decrease. In accordance with this phenomenon the sensation of granular noise caused by the pattern of the transparent conductive film is capable of being lowered and the visibility of objects to be observed can be significantly enhanced. Further because a plurality of polygonal meshes are provided the cross sectional shape of the respective wires after cutting is substantially constant and thus the conductive film exhibits a stable conducting capability.

Below with reference to the accompanying drawings an explanation shall be given of a preferred embodiment in relation to a manufacturing apparatus for carrying out a conductive film manufacturing method according to an embodiment of the present invention.

The manufacturing apparatus basically comprises an image processing device for creating image data Img including output image data ImgOut representative of a pattern corresponding to a mesh pattern M an exposure unit for performing exposure by illuminating the conductive film with light under a manufacturing process based on the output image data ImgOut created by the image processing device an input device for inputting to the image processing device each of various conditions including visual information of a mesh pattern M and a later described structural pattern for creating the image data Img and a display device for displaying a GUI image to assist in an input operation by the input device and for displaying stored output image data ImgOut or the like.

The image processing device comprises a storage unit storing therein image data Img output image data ImgOut position data SPd of candidate points SP and position data SDd of seed points SD a random number generator for producing a pseudo random number and generating a random number value an initial position selecting unit position selecting unit for selecting initial positions of seed points SD from among a predetermined two dimensional image using the random number value generated by the random number generator an updated candidate position determining unit position selecting unit for determining positions excluding positions of the seed points SD of candidate points SP from among the two dimensional image region using the random number value an exposure data conversion unit for converting output image data ImgOut into a control signal exposure data of the exposure unit and a display controller for controlling display of respective images on the display device .

The seed points SD are made up from first seed points SDN that are not to be updated and second seed point SDS that are to be updated. Stated otherwise the position data SDd of the seed points SD are constituted from position data SDNd of the first seed points SDN and position data SDSd of the second seed points SDS.

A non illustrated controller which is constituted by a CPU or the like is capable of implementing all of the controls in relation to image processing by reading and executing a program stored in a recording medium a non illustrated ROM or the storage unit .

The image processing device further comprises an image information estimating unit for estimating image information of a mesh pattern M or a structural pattern based on visual information described later input from the input device an image data generating unit for generating image data Img representative of a pattern corresponding to the mesh pattern M or the structural pattern based on image information supplied from the image information estimating unit and positions of seed points SD supplied from the storage unit a mesh pattern evaluating unit that calculates an evaluation value EVP for evaluating a mesh shaped pattern based on the image data Img created by the image data generating unit and a data update instructing unit for instructing updating non updating of data of seed points SD evaluation values EVP etc. based on the evaluation value EVP calculated by the mesh pattern evaluating unit .

As shown in the conductive film of includes a plurality of conductive portions and a plurality of openings . The plural conductive portions form a mesh pattern M mesh shaped wirings in which a plurality of thin wires mutually intersect. More specifically a mesh shape is formed by a combination of one of the openings and at least two conductive portions that surround the one opening . In the mesh shape each of the openings differs from the others the openings being arrayed irregularly i.e. aperiodically respectively. Below at times the material constituting the conductive portion is referred to as a wire material .

The line width of the metallic thin wires can be selected to be from 5 m or greater to 200 m 0.2 mm or less. Of course if it is desired to increase light transmittance the line width may be selected from between 5 m or greater to 50 m or less. Further the area of the openings preferably is from 0.02 mmor greater to 40 mmor less and more preferably is from 0.1 mmor greater to 1 mmor less.

Due to being constituted in the foregoing manner a total optical transmittance of the conductive film can be realized which is from 70 or greater to less than 99 from 80 or greater to less than 99 and from 85 or greater to less than 99 .

The conductive film is a conductive film that can be used as an electrode for a touch panel or as an electrode for an inorganic EL element an organic EL element or a solar cell. As shown in the conductive film comprises a transparent film substrate substrate as well as the conductive portions and the openings which are formed on the transparent film substrate .

An outline exploded perspective view of a case in which the conductive film is used as a touch panel electrode is shown in . A filter member having the same size as the conductive film is arranged by being superimposed on a surface of the conductive film . The filter member comprises a plurality of red filters a plurality of green filters and a plurality of blue filters and a black matrix structural pattern . Below the material constituting the black matrix may also be referred to as a pattern material .

The red filters the green filters or the blue filters are arranged respectively in parallel in a vertical up down direction of the filter member . Further the red filters the green filters the blue filters the red filters . . . are arranged in series periodically in a lateral left right direction of the filter member . More specifically a planar region in which one red filter one green filter and one blue filter are arranged is constituted as a unit pixel capable of displaying any arbitrary color through a combination of red light emission green light emission and blue light emission.

The black matrix has the function of a light shielding material for preventing mixing of reflective light from the exterior or transmissive light from a non illustrated back light at each of the adjacent unit pixels . The black matrix is made up from light shielding materials extending in a horizontal direction and light shielding materials extending in a vertical direction. The light shielding materials form a rectangular lattices which each surrounds one set of color filters i.e. the red filter the green filter and the blue filter that constitutes one unit pixel .

Further the conductive film also functions as a transparent heating element for generating heat upon flow of a current therethrough. In this case first and second electrodes are formed at opposing ends of the conductive film and a current flows from the first electrode to the second electrode. Consequently the transparent heating element generates heat whereby an object to be heated e.g. a building glass window an automotive glass window a front cover for a vehicle lamp etc. which is placed in contact with or incorporating therein the transparent heating element is heated. As a result snow or the like adhering to the object to be heated can be removed.

The mesh pattern evaluating unit comprises an FFT operating unit which carries out fast Fourier transformation hereinafter also referred to as FFT on the image data supplied from the image data generating unit to obtain two dimensional spectral data hereinafter referred to as a spectrum Spc and an evaluation value calculating unit for calculating an evaluation value EVP based on the spectra Spc supplied from the FFT operating unit .

The data update instructing unit comprises a counter for counting the number of evaluations performed by the mesh pattern evaluating unit a simulated temperature management unit for managing values of simulated temperatures T utilized by a later described simulated annealing method an update probability calculation unit for calculating an update probability of the seed points SD based on the evaluation value EVP supplied from the mesh pattern evaluating unit and a simulated temperature T supplied from the simulated temperature management unit a position update determining unit for determining whether to update or not update position data SDd of seed points SD based on the update probability supplied from the update probability calculation unit and an output image data determining unit for determining as output image data ImgOut one of the image data Img corresponding to a notification from the simulated temperature management unit .

The setting screen comprises from the top thereof and in the following order a left side pull down menu a left side display column a right side pull down menu a right side display column seven text boxes and buttons labeled CANCEL and NEXT respectively.

To the left of the pull down menus and text is displayed indicating TYPE . By operating the input device e.g. a mouse non illustrated selection columns are displayed below the pull down menus to enable the items displayed therein to be selected.

The display column is made up from five respective columns with text labels TRANSMITTANCE REFLECTANCE COLOR VALUE L COLOR VALUE a and COLOR VALUE b displayed respectively to the left thereof.

Similar to the display column the display column is made up from five respective columns with text labels REFLECTANCE TRANSMITTANCE COLOR VALUE L COLOR VALUE a and COLOR VALUE b displayed respectively to the left thereof.

The label TOTAL TRANSMITTANCE is displayed to the left of the text box and is displayed on the right hand side thereof. The label FILM THICKNESS is displayed to the left of the text box and m is displayed on the right hand side thereof. The label WIRING WIDTH is displayed to the left of the text box and m is displayed on the right hand side thereof. The label WIRING THICKNESS is displayed to the left of the text box and m is displayed on the right hand side thereof. The label PATTERN SIZE H is displayed to the left of the text box and mm is displayed on the right hand side thereof. The label PATTERN SIZE V is displayed to the left of the text box and mm is displayed on the right hand side thereof. The label IMAGE RESOLUTION is displayed to the left of the text box and dpi is displayed on the right hand side thereof.

Further by performing a predetermined operation using the input device e.g. keyboard Arabic numerals can be input into any of the seven text boxes .

The setting screen has from the top thereof and in the following order two radio buttons six text boxes a matrix shaped image and buttons labeled respectively with RETURN SET and CANCEL .

The words PRESENCE and ABSENCE are displayed respectively to the right of the radio buttons and . In addition to the left of the radio button the text label PRESENCE ABSENCE OF MATRIX is displayed.

To the left of the text boxes the text labels AVERAGE SAMPLE NUMBER OF SUPERIMPOSED POSITIONS DENSITY DIMENSIONS a b c and d are displayed respectively. Further to the right of the text boxes the text labels TIMES D m m m and m are displayed respectively. By performing a predetermined operation using the input device e.g. a keyboard Arabic numerals can be entered in any of the text boxes .

The matrix shaped image is an image that simulates the form of the black matrix and is provided with four openings and a window frame .

Operations of the manufacturing apparatus constructed basically as described above will be described below with reference to the flowchart of .

Initially a method of creating a first mesh pattern M suitable under conditions in which a black matrix is not superimposed will be described. Thereafter a method of creating a second mesh pattern M which is suitable under conditions in which a black matrix is superimposed thereon will be described while focusing on differences from the case of the mesh pattern M. Hereinafter for cases in which the first mesh pattern M and the second mesh pattern M need not be distinguished from each other such cases will be indicated simply as mesh patterns M .

First various conditions necessary for creating the image data Img representing the pattern corresponding to the mesh pattern M including the output image data ImgOut are input step S .

The operator inputs appropriate numerical values etc. via the setting screen see shown on the display device . As a result visual information can be input concerning visibility of the mesh pattern M. Visual information of the mesh pattern M is defined by various information that contribute to the shape and optical density of the mesh pattern M including visual information of the wire material metallic thin wire and visual information of the transparent substrate transparent film substrate . As visual information of the wire material there may be included for example at least one of the type color value optical transmittance and optical reflectance of the wire material and the cross sectional shape and thickness of the metallic thin wire . As visual information of the transparent substrate there may be included for example at least one of the type color value optical transmittance optical reflectance and film thickness of the transparent substrate.

In relation to the conductive film to be manufactured the operator selects one of the types of wire materials using the pull down menu . In the example of SILVER Ag is selected. Upon selecting one type of wire material the display column is updated immediately and predetermined numerical values are newly displayed corresponding to physical properties of the wire material. Values for optical reflectivity units optical reflectance unit color value L color value a color value b CIELAB of silver having a thickness of 100 m are displayed respectively in the columns and

Further in relation to the conductive film to be manufactured the operator selects one of the types of film materials transparent film substrate using the pull down menu . In the example of PET FILM is selected. Upon selecting one type of film material the display column is updated immediately and predetermined numerical values are newly displayed corresponding to physical properties of the film material. Values for optical reflectivity units optical reflectance unit color value L color value a color value b CIELAB of a 1 mm thickness PET film are displayed respectively in the columns and

By selecting the item MANUAL INPUT not shown via the pull down menus various physical property values can be input directly from the display columns .

Furthermore in relation to the conductive film to be manufactured the operator enters various conditions of the mesh pattern M respectively using the text box etc.

The values input to the text boxes correspond respectively to total optical transmittance units film thickness of the transparent film substrate units m line width of the metallic thin wires units m and thickness of the metallic thin wires units m .

The values input to the text boxes correspond respectively to the horizontal size of the mesh pattern M the vertical size of the mesh pattern M and the image resolution pixel size of the output image data ImgOut.

After having finished the input operations on the setting screen the operator clicks the NEXT button whereupon the display controller changes the setting screen shown on the display device to the setting screen shown in .

Through the setting screen displayed on the display device the operator respectively inputs each of various conditions of the black matrix . Inputs made via the radio buttons correspond to whether or not the output image data ImgOut which is representative of the superimposed pattern of the black matrix on the mesh pattern M is to be created. If PRESENCE radio button is selected the black matrix is superimposed and if ABSENCE radio button is selected the black matrix is not superimposed. In the present case since the black matrix is not intended to be superimposed the radio button is selected.

Responsive to an operator clicking on the SET button the image information estimating unit estimates the image information of the mesh pattern M. Such image information is referred to at the time that the image data Img including the output image data ImgOut is created.

For example based on the vertical size of the mesh pattern M the value input to the text box and the image resolution of the output image data ImgOut the value input to the text box the number of pixels in the horizontal direction of the output image data can be calculated and based on the width of the wiring the value input to the text box and the image resolution the number of pixels corresponding to the line width of the metallic thin wires can be calculated.

Further based on the optical transmittance of the wire material the value displayed in column and the thickness of the wires the value input to the text box the optical transmittance of the metallic thin wires themselves can be estimated. In addition thereto based on the optical transmittance of the film material the value displayed in the column and the film thickness the value input to the text box the optical transmittance under a condition in which the metallic thin wires are laminated on the transparent film substrate can be estimated.

Furthermore based on the optical transmittance of the wire material the value displayed in the column the optical transmittance of the film material the value displayed in the column the total transmittance the value input to the text box and the width of the wires the value input to the text box the number of openings can be estimated together with estimating the number of seed points SD. The number of seed points SD may also be estimated responsive to an algorithm which determines regions of the openings .

Prior to describing the method of creating output image data ImgOut a method of evaluating the image data Img will first be described. In the present embodiment an evaluation is performed based on an evaluation value EVP obtained by quantifying noise characteristics e.g. granular noise .

As one example of evaluating noise characteristics the range of a predetermined region of the image data Img may be determined and then the RMS Root Mean Square may be determined with respect to pixel values within the range of the region. The present embodiment uses an evaluation value EVP that is improved by adopting evaluation of human visual response characteristics.

First FFT is effected on the image data Img shown in . As a result concerning the shape of the mesh pattern M the overall tendency spatial frequency distribution thereof can be grasped rather than a partial shape.

A Dooley Shaw function is one type of VTF Visual Transfer Function which is a representative function that simulates human visual response characteristics. More specifically the function corresponds to the square of a luminance contrast ratio characteristic. The horizontal axis on the graph is the spatial frequency units cycle mm whereas the vertical axis is the value of the VTF units of which are non dimensional .

If the observational distance is set at 300 mm values of the VTF are constant equivalent to 1 within a range of 0 to 1.0 cycle mm and as the spatial frequency grows higher there is a tendency for the VTF values to decrease. More specifically the function operates as a low pass filter that blocks or cuts off mid to high spatial frequency bands.

Actual human visual response characteristics exhibit the characteristics of a so called bandpass filter in which the value thereof becomes smaller than 1 in the vicinity of 0 cycle mm. However as exemplified in in the present embodiment by setting the VTF value to 1 even in extremely low spatial frequency bands the contribution to the evaluation value EVP is high. Consequently an effect is obtained of suppressing periodicity due to repeated arrangement of the mesh pattern M.

In a case where the value of the spectrum Spc is defined by F Ux Uy the evaluation value EVP is calculated by the following Formula 1 .

According to the Wiener Khintchen theorem the value obtained by integrating the spectrum Spc over the total spatial frequency band matches the square of the RMS. A value obtained by multiplying the VTF with respect to the spectrum Spc and then integrating the new spectrum Spc over the total spatial frequency band yields an evaluation index that substantially matches human visual characteristics. The evaluation value EVP can be provided by the RMS corrected by the human visual response characteristics. Similar to an ordinary RMS the evaluation value EVP typically is taken to be a value that is equal to or greater than zero and the closer the evaluation value EVP is to zero the better the noise characteristics are.

Further by effecting an inverse Fourier transform e.g. IFFT with respect to the VTF shown in a mask corresponding to the VTF is calculated in real space and by applying the mask with respect to image data Img to be evaluated and performing a convolution operation thereon the RMS may be determined with respect to the new image data Img. Consequently an operational result can be obtained which is equivalent to that obtained by the above described method using formula 1 .

It goes without saying the formula for computing the evaluation value EVP may be modified in various ways responsive to the evaluation function and the target level acceptable range or tolerance for determining the mesh pattern M.

Below a detailed method for determining output image data ImgOut based on the aforementioned evaluation value EVP shall be explained. For example a method can be used in which generation of image data Img for different patterns and evaluation thereof by the evaluation value EVP are repeatedly successively.

Included in the image data Img are image data ImgInit which serve as initial data in the repeated calculations as well as image data ImgTemp which serve as temporary data. Further included in the evaluation value EVP is an evaluation value EVPInit which serves as an initial value in the repeated calculations as well as an evaluation value EVPTemp which serves as temporary data.

In this case as an optimization problem for determining the output image data ImgOut various search algorithms can be used such as a constructive algorithm or an iterative improvement algorithm etc.

Primarily with reference to the flowchart of and the functional block diagram of explanations shall be given concerning an optimization method for optimizing the mesh pattern M by means of a simulated annealing method hereinafter referred to as an SA method according to the present embodiment. The SA method is a stochastic search algorithm modeled on an annealing method for obtaining robust iron by striking iron in a high temperature condition.

Prior to selecting the initial positions the random number generator generates a random number value using a pseudo random number generating algorithm. As one such pseudo random number generating algorithm any of various algorithms may be used such as a Mersenne Twister an SIMD Oriented Fast Mersenne Twister SFMT or an Xorshift method. Then using the random number value supplied from the random number generator the initial position selecting unit determines initial positions of the seed points SD in a random fashion. Herein the initial position selecting unit selects initial positions of the seed points SD as pixel addresses in the image data Img and the seed points SD are set at respective positions that do not overlap one another.

Based on the number of pixels in vertical and horizontal directions of the image data Img supplied from the image information estimating unit the initial position selecting unit determines beforehand the range of the two dimensional image region. Further the initial position selecting unit acquires beforehand from the image information estimating unit the number of seed points SD and based thereon the number of seed points SD is determined.

The graph characteristics exhibit changes responsive to the optical transmittance of the film material as indicated in the column of the wiring width the value input to the text box of and a region determining algorithm e.g. a Voronoi diagram . Thus characteristic data responsive to each of the parameters such as wiring width or the like may be stored beforehand in the storage unit in any of various data formats consisting of functions tables or the like.

Further a correspondence between the arrangement density of the seed points SD and an electrical resistance value of the mesh pattern M may be acquired beforehand whereby the number of seed points SD may be determined based on a specified electrical resistance value. The electrical resistance value is one parameter indicative of electrical conductivity of the conductive portion which is essential to the design of the mesh pattern M.

The initial position selecting unit may also select the initial positions of the seed points SD without using a random number value. For example the initial positions can be determined by referring to data acquired from an external apparatus including a non illustrated scanner or storage device. Such data for example may be predetermined binary data and more specifically may be halftone data used for printing.

Next the image data generating unit generates image data ImgInit that serves as initial data step S . The image data generating unit generates image data ImgInit representing the pattern corresponding to the mesh pattern M based on the number of seed points SD and the position data SDd supplied from the storage unit along with image information supplied from the image information estimating unit .

A variety of methods may be adopted as the algorithm for determining a mesh shaped pattern from multiple seed points SD. Below explanations shall be given in detail with reference to .

As shown in for example it is assumed that eight points Pto Pare selected at random from within a rectangular two dimensional image region .

Further in a result is shown in which eight triangular regions are defined by respective vertices of the points Pto Pof which is the same as using a Delaunay triangulation method.

Delaunay triangulation is a method of defining triangular shapes by connecting adjacent points from among the points Pto P. According to this method as well regions Vto Vcan be determined in the same number as the number of points Pto P.

Incidentally prior to generating the image data Img including the image data ImgInit and ImgTemp as well as the output image data ImgOut definitions of pixel addresses and pixel values therefor are determined beforehand.

In this manner the image data generating unit creates the image data ImgInit corresponding to the mesh pattern M based on the data definition of the image data Img and the image information estimated by the image information estimating unit refer to the description of step S step S . Using a Voronoi diagram as a reference for the initial positions of the seed points SD see the image data generating unit determines initial conditions for the mesh pattern M shown in . Concerning the end portions of the image processing is performed so as to repeatedly arrange the same in vertical and horizontal directions. For example concerning seed points SD in the vicinity of the left end or right end of the image the processing is performed such that regions Vare obtained between such left end or right end seed points SD and other seed points SD in the vicinity of the right end or left end of the image. Similarly concerning seed points SD in the vicinity of the upper end or lower end of the image the processing is performed such that regions Vare obtained between such upper end or lower end seed points SD and other seed points SD in the vicinity of the lower end or upper end of the image.

Below the image data Img is handled as respective 4 channel image data made up of optical density OD color value L color value a and color value b .

Next the mesh pattern evaluating unit calculates the evaluation value EVPInit as an initial value step S . In the SA method the evaluation value EVP assumes the role of a cost function.

More specifically the FFT operating unit shown in effects FFT with respect to the image data ImgInit. In addition the evaluation value calculating unit calculates the evaluation value EVP based on the spectrum Spc supplied from the FFT operating unit .

From within the image data Img evaluation values EVP L EVP a EVP b are calculated respectively for each of the respective channels for the color value L the color value a and the color value b refer to formula 1 above . In addition the evaluation value EVP is obtained by a product sum operation using a predetermined weighting coefficient.

In place of the color values L a b optical density OD may also be used. In relation to the evaluation value EVP depending on the type of observational mode i.e. corresponding to whether the auxiliary light source is predominantly transmissive light predominantly reflective light or a mixture of transmissive and reflective light an appropriate calculation method can be selected that complies with human visual sensitivity.

Further it goes without saying that the formula for computing the evaluation value EVP may be changed corresponding to the target level acceptable range or tolerance or the evaluation function for determining the mesh pattern M.

Next the storage unit temporarily stores the image data ImgInit created in step S and the evaluation value EVPInit calculated in step S step S . Along therewith an initial value n T where n is a natural number and T is a positive real number is assigned to the simulated temperature T.

Next the counter initializes the variable K step S . That is the counter assigns 0 to the variable K.

Then in a state in which a portion of the seed points SD second seed points SDS are replaced by candidate points SP and after image data ImgTemp is created as temporary data and evaluation data EVPTemp is calculated as temporary data a determination is made as to whether to update or not update the seed points SD step S . Further details concerning step S will be described with reference to the flowchart of and the functional block diagrams of and .

First the updated candidate position determining unit extracts and determines candidate points SP from the predetermined two dimensional image region step S . The updated candidate position determining unit for example using a random value supplied from the random number generator determines non overlapping positions in relation to any of the positions of the seed points SD. The candidate points SP may be a single point or a plurality of points. In the example shown in two candidate points SP point Qand point Q are determined with respect to the eight current seed points SD points Pto P .

Next a portion of the seed points SD and the candidate points SP are exchanged at random step S . The updated candidate position determining unit establishes a correspondence randomly between each of the candidate points SP and each of the exchanged or updated seed points SD. In a correspondence is established between point Pand point Q and also between point Pand point Q. As shown in the point Pand the point Qare exchanged and the point Pand the point Qare exchanged. In this case points Pand points Pto P which are not subject to exchange or updating are referred to as first seed points SDN whereas point Pand point P which are subject to exchange or updating are referred to as second seed points SDS.

Then using the exchanged and updated seed points SD see the image data generating unit generates the image data ImgTemp step S . At this time the method used is the same as in the case of step S see and thus explanations therefor are omitted.

Next the mesh pattern evaluating unit calculates an evaluation value EVPTemp based on the image data ImgTemp step S . At this time the method used is the same as in the case of step S see and thus explanations therefor are omitted.

Next the update probability calculation unit calculates an update probability Prob for updating the positions of the seed points SD step S . The phrase updating the positions implies determining as new seed points SD seed points SD that are tentatively exchanged and obtained in step S i.e. the first seed points SDN and the candidate points SP .

More specifically in accordance with the Metropolis Criterion a probability of updating the seed points SD and a probability of not updating the seed points SD are calculated. The update probability Prob is given by the following formula 2 .

The variable T represents a simulated temperature wherein in accordance with the simulated temperature T approaching an absolute temperature T 0 the updating rule for the seed points SD changes from stochastic to deterministic.

Next in accordance with the update probability Prob calculated by the update probability calculation unit the position update determining unit determines whether or not to update the positions of the seed points SD step S . For example such a determination may be made stochastically using a random number value supplied from the random number generator .

In the case that the seed points SD are to be updated an update instruction is given to the storage unit whereas in the case that the seed points SD are not to be updated a do not update instruction is given to the storage unit steps S S .

Returning to in accordance with either of the instructions update or do not update it is determined whether or not the seed points SD should be updated step S . In the case that the seed points SD are not updated step S is not performed and the routine proceeds directly to step S.

On the other hand in the case that the seed points SD are to be updated in step S the storage unit overwrites and updates the presently stored image data Img with the image data ImgTemp determined in step S see . Further also in step S the storage unit overwrites and updates the presently stored evaluation value EVP with the evaluation value EVPTemp determined in step S. Furthermore also in step S the storage unit overwrites and updates the presently stored position data SDSd of the second seed points SDS with the position data SPd of the candidate points SP determined in step S. Thereafter the routine proceeds to step S.

Then the counter compares a magnitude relationship between the value of K at the present time and the predetermined value of Kmax step S . If the value of K is smaller than Kmax then the process returns to step S and steps S to S thereafter are repeated. In this case in order to sufficiently ensure convergence at an optimized calculation the value of Kmax can be set for example at Kmax 10000.

In cases apart therefrom the simulated temperature management unit decrements the simulated temperature T by T step S and then proceeds to step S. The change in the simulated temperature T is not limited to being decremented by T but the simulated temperature T may also be multiplied by a fixed constant 0

Next the simulated temperature management unit determines whether or not at the present time the simulated temperature T is equivalent to zero step S . If T is not equal to zero then the process returns to step S and steps S to S are repeated.

On the other hand if T is equivalent to zero then the simulated temperature management unit issues a notification to the output image data determining unit to the effect that evaluation of the mesh pattern by the SA method has been completed. In addition the storage unit overwrites the content of the updated image data Img which was updated for the last time in step S onto the output image data ImgOut thereby updating the same step S .

In this manner step S is brought to an end. Thereafter the output image data ImgOut is supplied to the exposure data conversion unit and then converted into a control signal for the exposure unit .

So that the operator can visually confirm the data the obtained output image data ImgOut may be displayed on the display device and the mesh pattern M may be made visual in a simulated manner. Below an example shall be described of actual visual results of the output image data ImgOut.

The spectrum Spc of the pattern PT shown in has a broad width peak 2 to 30 cycle mm with an apex at approximately 10 cycle mm. Further the spectrum Spc of the pattern PT shown in has a broad width peak 3 to 20 cycle mm centered at approximately 3 cycle mm. Furthermore the spectrum Spc of the pattern PT shown in has a comparatively narrow width peak 8 to 18 cycle mm centered at approximately 10 cycle mm. In contrast thereto the spectrum Spc of the first mesh pattern M has a narrow width peak centered at 8.8 cycle mm.

An explanation shall be given next concerning a relationship between characteristics of the spectrum Spc shown in and centroid positions of the respective meshes. As shown in with respect to a two dimensional image region similar to that shown in using the aforementioned Voronoi diagram respective polygonal shaped regions Vto Vare defined. Points Cto Cbelonging respectively to the regions Vto Vrepresent centroid positions of such regions respectively.

According to the present drawing peaks Pof the spatial frequencies Fare in agreement corresponding to a value of 8.8 cycle mm. In high spatial frequency bands in excess of the spatial frequency F the intensity of the spectrum Spc gradually decreases whereas in contrast thereto the intensity of the centroid spectrum Spcc is maintained at an even higher value. The reason therefor is presumed to be that in contrast to the constituent elements of the mesh pattern M being line segments having a predetermined width and which intersect each other the constituent elements of the centroid distribution are points.

A standard spatial frequency predetermined spatial frequency Fb is set to 6 cycle mm. Within a range on the side of a spatial frequency band lower than Fb i.e. within a range from 0 to Fb cycle mm the average value of the centroid spectrum Spcc is set to P. On the other hand within a range on the side of a spatial frequency band higher than Fb i.e. within a range from Fb cycle mm to the Nyquist frequency the average value of the centroid spectrum Spcc is set to P. In this manner the value of Pis greater than the value of P. Since the centroid frequency Spcc has such a characteristic the sensation of noise that is felt visually by an observer is reduced. The basis therefor is as follows.

For example the value of Fb is set so that a spatial frequency results in which the human visual response characteristic corresponds to 5 of the maximum response. Assuming an intensity level is present the level is such that visibility is difficult. Further as shown in an acquired visual response characteristic is used based on a Dooley Shaw function at a visibility distance of 300 mm. The present function is closely compatible with human visual response characteristics.

More specifically as the value Fb in the Dooley Shaw function at a visibility distance of 300 mm there can be used a spatial frequency of 6 cycle mm which corresponds to 5 of the maximum response. It is further noted that 6 cycle mm corresponds to an interval of 167 m.

In the present specification the power spectrum of a centroid position distribution of the mesh pattern M which is possessed by the conductive film corresponds with a spectrum obtained by the following process. More specifically image data ImgOut representing the pattern of the mesh pattern M are acquired respective meshes closed spaces are identified centroid positions e.g. one pixel dot thereof are calculated respectively and centroid image data Imgc are determined and a two dimensional power spectrum centroid spectrum Spcc thereof is determined whereby a power spectrum of the centroid position distribution of the mesh pattern M is obtained. Concerning the method for acquiring the image data ImgOut grayscale image data of the conductive film may be acquired using an input apparatus such as a scanner or the like or image data ImgOut see obtained using the actual output form of the mesh pattern M may be used.

Next with reference to and the flowchart of an explanation shall be given concerning a method of generating a second mesh pattern M which is suitable under a condition in which a black matrix see is superimposed.

In the flowchart of operations of the manufacturing apparatus are basically the same as the case of generating the first mesh pattern M. Upon inputting the various conditions step S not only visual information in relation to visibility of the mesh pattern M but visual information in relation to the black matrix also are input.

The operator inputs appropriate numerical values via the setting screen see displayed on the display device . As a result visual information in relation to visibility of the black matrix can be input. The visible information of the black matrix is defined by various types of information that contribute to the shape and optical density of the black matrix and includes visual information of the pattern material. As visual information of the pattern material for example there are included at least one of a type a color an optical transmittance or an optical reflectance of the pattern material or an arrangement position a unit shape or a unit size of the structural pattern may be included in the visual information of the pattern material.

In relation to the black matrix that is to be superimposed the operator inputs various conditions of the black matrix using the text box shown in .

The inputs made via the radio buttons correspond to whether or not output image data ImgOut is created representing a pattern in which the black matrix is superimposed on the mesh pattern M. In the present case the black matrix is superimposed and therefore the radio button PRESENCE is selected.

The value input to the text box randomly determines the arrangement position of the black matrix and corresponds to the number of trials carried out to generate and evaluate the image data Img. For example in the event the value is set to 5 times five instances of superimposed image data are created in which positional relationships are determined between the mesh pattern M and the black matrix and using respective average values of the evaluation value EVP evaluation of the pattern of the mesh is carried out.

The values of the text boxes correspond to the optical density of the black matrix units D the vertical size of the unit pixel units m the vertical size of the unit pixel units m the width of the light shielding material units m and the width of the light shielding material units m .

Furthermore based on the optical density of the black matrix text box the vertical size of the unit pixel text box the vertical size of the unit pixel text box the width of the light shielding material text box and the width of the light shielding material text box the pattern of the mesh pattern M i.e. the shape and optical density in the case that the black matrix is superimposed can be estimated.

In step SA the image data generating unit generates superimposed image data ImgInit based on the image data ImgInit generated in step S and image information of the black matrix estimated by the image information estimating unit refer to the explanation of step S . The superimposed image data ImgInit is image data representative of a pattern in which a black matrix as a structural pattern is superimposed on the second mesh pattern M.

In the case that the data definitions for pixel values of the image data ImgInit are indicative of transmission density the transmission density the value input to the text box in of each of the pixels is added corresponding to the arrangement position of the black matrix and the superimposed image data ImgInit can be generated. Further in the case that the data definitions for pixel values of the image data ImgInit are indicative of reflection density the reflection density the value input to the same text box of each of the pixels is substituted therefor corresponding to the arrangement position of the black matrix and the superimposed image data ImgInit can be generated.

In step SA in a condition in which a portion of the seed points SD second seed points SDS are replaced by candidate points SP superimposed image data ImgTemp is generated and after the evaluation value EVPTemp is calculated a determination is made as to whether to update or not update the seed points SD.

The flowchart of in comparison with differs in that a step step SA is provided for generating superimposed image data ImgTemp . The other steps S through S are the same as already described above and thus explanation of the operations of such steps is omitted.

In step SA the image data generating unit generates superimposed image data ImgTemp based on the image data ImgTemp generated in step S and image information of the black matrix estimated by the image information estimating unit refer to the explanation of step S . At this time the method used is the same as in the case of step SA see and thus explanations therefor are omitted.

In this manner in addition to generating the superimposed image data ImgTemp or the superimposed image data ImgInit by calculating the evaluation data EVP or the evaluation data EVPInit the mesh shape can be evaluated taking into consideration the pattern of the black matrix .

In the foregoing manner step SA is brought to an end. Thereafter the output image data ImgOut is supplied to the exposure data conversion unit in order to produce image data that is converted into a control signal for the exposure unit .

In contrast thereto is a visual outline explanatory drawing in which human visual response characteristics are applied with respect to the output image data ImgOut of . By applying human visual response characteristics or stated otherwise by applying a low pass filter see fine structural contours of the second mesh pattern M and the black matrix are rendered almost visually imperceptible.

Using such a method concerning noise characteristics of the second mesh pattern M on which the black matrix is superimposed an evaluation can be performed which conforms more closely to human visual response characteristics.

As can be understood from compared to the pattern of the mesh pattern M the pattern each of the openings of the mesh pattern M has a laterally elongate shape as a whole. The basis therefore is estimated in the following manner.

For example the shape of the unit pixels of the black matrix shown in is assumed to be square. By arranging the red filters green filters and blue filters in a horizontal direction the unit pixels are partitioned into regions that are the size of the unit pixels whereby noise granularity of high spatial frequency components increases. On the other hand in the vertical direction only spatial frequency components exist that correspond to the period at which the light shielding materials are disposed and so that spatial frequency components apart therefrom do not exist the pattern of the mesh pattern M is determined such that visibility of the arrangement period is low. In other words respective wires that extend in the horizontal direction are determined so that the intervals therebetween are as narrow as possible and the wires are arranged regularly between the respective light shielding materials

In this manner by superimposing the black matrix structural pattern and creating the image data Img including output image data ImgOut the mesh shape can be optimized taking into consideration the pattern of the black matrix .

Returning to the exposure unit carries out an exposure process for the mesh pattern M step S and thereafter a development treatment is performed step S .

Several methods first through fourth methods for producing mesh patterns M from metallic thin wires disposed on the transparent film substrate will be described below with reference to .

In the first method a photosensitive silver salt layer is exposed developed and fixed on the transparent film substrate to form metallic silver portions. The metallic silver portions are utilized for constituting the mesh pattern M.

More specifically as shown in the transparent film substrate is coated with a photosensitive silver salt layer containing a mixture of a gelatin and a silver halide e.g. silver bromide particles silver chlorobromide particles or silver iodobromide particles . Although the silver halide is exaggeratingly shown by points in to facilitate understanding the points do not represent the size concentration etc.

Thereafter as shown in the photosensitive silver salt layer is subjected to an exposure treatment required for forming the conductive portion . More specifically the photosensitive silver salt layer is irradiated with the light via a mask pattern that corresponds to an exposure pattern obtained through the pattern generating process shown in or . Alternatively an exposure pattern generated by the pattern generating process exposes the photosensitive silver salt layer in accordance with digital writing exposure applied with respect to the photosensitive silver salt layer . If optical energy is applied to the silver halide the silver halide is exposed to generate minute silver nuclei therein referred to as a latent image which are not observable to the naked eye.

Then as shown in the photosensitive silver salt layer is subjected to a development treatment for converting the latent image into a visible image observable to the naked eye. More specifically the photosensitive silver salt layer having the latent image is developed using a developer i.e. an alkaline or acidic solution generally an alkaline solution . In the development treatment using the latent image silver nuclei as catalyst cores silver ions from the silver halide particles or the developer are reduced to metallic silver by a reducing agent in the developer referred to as a developing agent . As a result the latent image silver nuclei are grown to form a visible silver image developed silver .

The silver halide remains in the photosensitive silver salt layer after the development treatment. As shown in the silver halide is removed by a fixation treatment using a fixer an acidic or alkaline solution generally an acidic solution .

After the fixation treatment metallic silver portions are formed in exposed areas and light transmitting portions containing only the gelatin are formed in unexposed areas. Thus a combination of the metallic silver portions and the light transmitting portions is formed on the transparent film substrate to thereby form the mesh pattern M.

In the case that silver bromide is used as the silver halide and a thiosulfate salt is used in the fixation treatment a reaction represented by the following formula proceeds in the treatment. AgBr solid 2SOions Ag SO readily water soluble complex 

More specifically two thiosulfate SOions and one silver ion in the gelatin a silver ion from AgBr are reacted to generate a silver thiosulfate complex. The silver thiosulfate complex has a high water solubility and thereby is eluted from the gelatin . As a result the developed silver is fixed and remains as metallic silver portions . The mesh pattern M is constituted by the metallic silver portions .

Thus in the development treatment the latent image is reacted with the reducing agent to deposit the developed silver and in the fixation treatment the residual silver halide which is not converted into developed silver is eluted into water. The treatments are described in detail in T. H. James The Theory of the Photographic Process 4th ed. Macmillian Publishing Co. Inc. NY Chapter 15 pp. 438 442 1977.

The development treatment generally is carried out using an alkaline solution. The alkaline solution used in the development treatment may be mixed into the fixer generally an acidic solution whereby the activity of the fixer may disadvantageously be changed during the fixation treatment. Further the developer may remain on the film after removing the film from the development bath whereby an undesired development reaction may be accelerated by the developer. Thus it is preferred that the photosensitive silver salt layer is neutralized or acidified by a quencher such as an acetic acid vinegar solution after the development treatment and before the fixation treatment.

In addition as shown in a conductive metal may be disposed only on the metallic silver portions by a plating treatment such as an electroless plating treatment an electroplating treatment or a combination thereof etc. In this case the mesh pattern M is formed by the metallic silver portions and the conductive metal disposed on the metallic silver portions .

Differences between the above mentioned process using the photosensitive silver salt layer silver salt photography technology and a process using a photoresist resist technology will be described below.

In resist technology a photopolymerization initiator absorbs light in an exposure treatment to initiate a reaction a photoresist film a resin per se undergoes a polymerization reaction to increase or decrease the solubility in a developer and the resin in an exposed or unexposed area is removed in a development treatment. The developer liquid used in resist technology may be an alkaline solution free of reducing agents in which an unreacted resin component can be dissolved. On the other hand as described above in silver salt photography technology according to the present invention the minute silver nuclei i.e. the so called latent image are formed from silver ions and photoelectrons generated in the silver halide exposed in the exposure treatment. The latent image silver nuclei are grown to form the visible silver image in the development treatment using the developer which must contain the reducing agent the developing agent . Thus resist technology and silver salt photography technology are significantly different in terms of the reactions in the exposure and development treatments.

In the development treatment of the resist technology the unpolymerized resin portion in the exposed or unexposed area is removed. On the other hand in the development treatment of the silver salt photography technology using the latent image as the catalyst core the reduction reaction is conducted by the reducing agent contained in the developer the developing agent and the developed silver is grown into a visible size. The gelatin in the unexposed area is not removed. Thus resist technology and silver salt photography technology are significantly different also in the reactions in the development treatments.

The silver halide contained in the gelatin in the unexposed area is eluted in the following fixation treatment and the gelatin itself is not removed.

In this manner in silver salt photography technology the main reaction component the main photosensitive component is the silver halide while in resist technology the main reaction component is the photopolymerization initiator. Further in the development treatment the binder the gelatin remains in silver salt photography technology while the binder is removed in resist technology. Thus resist technology and silver salt photography technology are significantly different concerning these points.

In another method second production method for example as shown in a photoresist film is formed on a copper foil disposed on the transparent film substrate in order to obtain a photosensitive material. Thereafter exposure is carried out with respect to the photosensitive material. More specifically the photoresist film is irradiated with light via a mask pattern corresponding to an exposure pattern obtained by the pattern generation process shown in or . Alternatively by digital writing exposure carried out with respect to the photoresist film an exposure pattern created by a pattern generating device is applied to expose the photoresist film . Thereafter by means of a development treatment a resist pattern corresponding to the conductive portion is formed on the transparent film substrate and as shown in etching is carried out on a copper foil exposed from the resist pattern . At this stage the conductive portion mesh pattern M is formed by the copper foil on the transparent film substrate .

Further in the third production method as shown in a paste containing fine metal particles is printed on the transparent film substrate . As shown in the printed paste may be plated with a metal to form the conductive portion mesh pattern M .

Alternatively in the fourth production method as shown in a metallic thin film may be printed on the transparent film substrate by using a screen or gravure printing plate to thereby form the mesh pattern M.

Next in the conductive film according to the present embodiment a particularly preferred manufacturing method of forming a conductive metal film using a photographic photosensitive silver halide material for the conductive film will mainly be described below.

As described above the conductive film according to the present embodiment may be produced as follows. A photosensitive material having the transparent film substrate and thereon a photosensitive silver halide containing emulsion layer is exposed and developed whereby the metallic silver portions and the light transmitting portions are formed respectively in the exposed areas and the unexposed areas. The metallic silver portions may be subjected to a physical development treatment and or a plating treatment to deposit the conductive metal thereon.

The method for forming the conductive film according to the present embodiment includes the following three processes depending on the photosensitive materials and development treatments.

 1 A process comprising subjecting a photosensitive black and white silver halide material free of physical development nuclei to a chemical or physical development to form the metallic silver portions on the photosensitive material.

 2 A process comprising subjecting a photosensitive black and white silver halide material having a silver halide emulsion layer containing physical development nuclei to a physical development to form the metallic silver portions on the photosensitive material.

 3 A process comprising subjecting a stack of a photosensitive black and white silver halide material free of physical development nuclei and an image receiving sheet having a non photosensitive layer containing physical development nuclei to a diffusion transfer development to form the metallic silver portions on the non photosensitive image receiving sheet.

In process 1 an integral black and white development procedure is used to form a transmittable conductive film such as a transmittable electromagnetic shielding film or a light transmitting conductive film on the photosensitive material. The resulting silver is a chemically or physically developed silver containing a high specific surface area filament and thereby shows a high activity in the following plating or physical development treatment.

In process 2 the silver halide is melted around the physical development nuclei and deposited on the nuclei in the exposed areas to form a transmittable conductive film on the photosensitive material. Also in this process an integral black and white development procedure is used. Although high activity can be achieved since the silver halide is deposited on the physical development nuclei during development the developed silver has a spherical shape with small specific surface.

In process 3 the silver halide is melted in unexposed areas and diffused and deposited on the development nuclei of the image receiving sheet to form a transmittable conductive film on the sheet. In this process a so called separate type procedure is used and the image receiving sheet is peeled off from the photosensitive material.

A negative or reversal development treatment can be used in the foregoing processes. In the diffusion transfer development the negative development treatment can be carried out using an auto positive photosensitive material.

The chemical development thermal development solution physical development and diffusion transfer development have the meanings generally known in the art and are explained in common photographic chemistry texts such as Shin ichi Kikuchi Shashin Kagaku Photographic Chemistry Kyoritsu Shuppan Co. Ltd. 1955 and C. E. K. Mees The Theory of Photographic Processes 4th ed. MacMillan 1977. A liquid treatment is generally used in the present invention and also a thermal development treatment can be utilized. For example techniques described in Japanese Laid Open Patent Publication Nos. 2004 184693 2004 334077 and 2005 010752 and Japanese Patent Application Nos. 2004 244080 and 2004 085655 can be used in the present invention.

A photosensitive material photosensitive web as a plating material for example is an elongate flexible substrate on which a silver salt containing layer containing a silver salt e.g. silver halide is disposed on the transparent film substrate . Further a protective layer may be disposed on a silver salt containing layer. The protective layer implies a layer made up from a binder for example such as gelatin or a high molecular polymer which may be formed on the silver salt containing layer for realizing an effect of improving mechanical characteristics or preventing abrasion. The thickness of the protective layer preferably is from 0.02 to 20 m.

Concerning the composition or the like of the silver salt containing layer and the protective layer there can be appropriately applied a silver halide emulsion layer silver salt containing layer and the protective layer which may be applied to a silver halide photographic film photographic paper a printing plate film an emulsion mask for a photomask or the like.

In particular as the photosensitive material preferably a silver halide photographic film silver halide photosensitive material and more preferably a black and white silver halide photographic film black and white silver halide photosensitive material is used. Further as the silver salt applied to the silver salt containing layer in particular silver halide is considered most preferable. The width of the photosensitive material for example is 20 cm or greater and the thickness thereof preferably is 50 to 200 m.

A flexible plastic film can be used as the transparent film substrate in the manufacturing method of the present embodiment.

As raw materials for the above mentioned flexible plastic film there can be used for example polyethylene terephthalate PET polyethylene naphthalate PEN polyolefins such as polyvinyl chloride polyvinylidene chloride polyvinyl butyral polyamide polyether polysulfone polyether sulfone polycarbonate polyarylate polyetherimide polyether ketone polyether ether ketone EVA etc. polycarbonate triacetyl cellulose TAC acrylic resin polyimide or aramid.

In the present embodiment from the standpoints of light transmission heat resistance ease of handling and price preferably the aforementioned plastic film is a polyethylene terephthalate PET film or a triacetyl cellulose TAC film.

Since transparency is a required property of a transparent heating element such as window glass or the like preferably the transparency of the transparent film substrate is high. In this case preferably the total visible optical transmittance of the plastic film is 70 to 100 more preferably is 85 to 100 and still more preferably is 90 to 100 . Further with the present invention a colored or tinted film may be used as the plastic film insofar as the objects of the present invention are not interfered with.

The plastic film in the present embodiment can be utilized as a single layer or can be used as a multilayer film in which two or more layers are combined.

As for the photosensitive material that is used the protective layer may be disposed on a later described emulsion layer. In the present embodiment the term protective layer implies a layer made up from a binder for example such as gelatin or a high molecular polymer and for realizing an effect of improving mechanical characteristics or preventing abrasion a photosensitive emulsion layer is formed. The protective layer preferably is not applied by a plating process and even if provided a thin protective layer is preferable. The thickness of the protective layer preferably is 0.2 m or less. The forming method by coating of the protective layer is not particularly limited and any known coating method can be selected appropriately.

The photosensitive material used in the production method of this embodiment preferably has the transparent film substrate and thereon the emulsion layer containing the silver salt as a light sensor the photosensitive silver salt layer . If needed in addition to silver salt the emulsion layer according to the present embodiment may contain a dye a binder a solvent etc.

The silver salt used in the present embodiment preferably is an inorganic silver salt such as a silver halide. It is particularly preferred that the silver salt is used in the form of particles for the photographic photosensitive silver halide material. Silver halide has an excellent light sensing property.

The silver halide preferably used in the photographic emulsion of the photographic photosensitive silver halide material will be described below.

In the present embodiment silver halide is preferably used as a light sensor. Silver halide technologies for photographic silver salt films photographic papers print engraving films emulsion masks for photomasking and the like may be utilized in the present embodiment.

The silver halide may contain a halogen element of chlorine bromine iodine or fluorine and may contain a combination of such elements. For example the silver halide preferably contains AgCl AgBr or AgI and more preferably contains AgBr or AgCl as a principal component thereof. Also silver chlorobromide silver iodochlorobromide or silver iodobromide preferably is used as the silver halide. More preferably the silver halide is silver chlorobromide silver bromide silver iodochlorobromide or silver iodobromide and most preferably is silver chlorobromide or silver iodochlorobromide having a silver chloride content of 50 mol or more.

The phrase silver halide contains AgBr silver bromide as a principal component implies that the mole ratio of bromide ions is 50 or more in the silver halide composition. Silver halide particles that contain AgBr as a principal component thereof may also contain iodide or chloride ions in addition to the bromide ions.

The silver halide emulsion used in the present embodiment may contain a metal of Group VIII or VIIB. It is particularly preferred that the silver halide emulsion contains a rhodium compound an iridium compound a ruthenium compound an iron compound an osmium compound or the like to obtain a gradation of 4 or more and to achieve low fogging.

Also for attaining high sensitivity doping is advantageously employed with a hexacyano metal complex such as K Fe CN K Ru CN or K Cr CN .

The added amount of the above compounds preferably is 10to 10mol mol Ag and more preferably is 10to 10mol mol Ag per 1 mol of silver halide.

Further in the present embodiment the silver halide preferably contains Pd II ion and or Pd metal. Pd is preferably contained in the vicinity of the surface of the silver halide particle although Pd may be uniformly distributed therein. Herein the phrase Pd is contained in the vicinity of the surface of the silver halide particle implies that the particle has a layer with a higher palladium content in a region of 50 nm or less in the depth direction from the surface.

Such silver halide particles can be prepared by adding Pd during particle formation thereof. Preferably Pd is added after the silver ions and the halogen ions have been added respectively at an amount of 50 or more of the total amount. It also is preferred that Pd II ions are added in a post ripening process so that Pd II ions exist in the silver halide surface layer.

The Pd containing silver halide particles act to accelerate physical development and non electrolytic plating to improve production efficiency of the desired heating element and to lower production costs. Pd is well known and used as a non electrolytic plating catalyst. In the present invention since Pd can be located in the vicinity of the surface of the silver halide particles the amount of Pd which is quite expensive can be reduced.

In the present embodiment the Pd ions and or Pd metal content with respect to the molar number of silver in the silver halide preferably is 10to 0.5 mol mol Ag and more preferably is 0.01 to 0.3 mol mol Ag.

In the present embodiment the sensitivity of the light sensor may be further enhanced by chemical sensitization which is generally used for photographic emulsions. Examples of chemical sensitization methods include chalcogen sensitization methods such as sulfur selenium and tellurium sensitization methods noble metal sensitization methods such as gold sensitization methods and reduction sensitization methods or the like. Such methods may be used singly or in combination. In the case of combining the chemical sensitization methods preferred combinations include a combination of a sulfur sensitization method and a gold sensitization method a combination of a sulfur sensitization method a selenium sensitization method and a gold sensitization method and a combination of a sulfur sensitization method a tellurium sensitization method and a gold sensitization method.

A binder may be used in the emulsion layer to uniformly disperse the silver salt particles and to assist the emulsion layer in adhering to a support. In the present invention the binder may contain a water insoluble or water soluble polymer and preferably contains a water soluble polymer.

Examples of the above discussed binders include gelatins polyvinyl alcohols PVA polyvinyl pyrolidones PVP polysaccharides such as starches celluloses and derivatives thereof polyethylene oxides polysaccharides polyvinylamines chitosans polylysines polyacrylic acids polyalginic acids polyhyaluronic acids and carboxycelluloses. The binders exhibit a neutral anionic or cationic property depending on the ionic properties of the functional group.

The amount of binder contained in the emulsion layer is not particularly limited and can be determined suitably within a range capable of exhibiting dispersion and adhesion. For example the amount preferably is adjusted such that the Ag binder volume ratio of the photosensitive silver salt layer is or more and more preferably so that the Ag binder volume ratio is or more.

The solvent used for forming the aforementioned emulsion layer is not particularly limited and examples thereof include water organic solvents e.g. alcohols such as methanol ketones such as acetone amides such as formamide sulfoxides such as dimethyl sulfoxide esters such as ethyl acetate and ethers etc. ionic liquids as well as mixtures of such solvents.

In the present invention concerning the solvent used in the emulsion layer the mass ratio of the solvent to the total of the silver salt the binder etc. contained in the emulsion layer is 30 to 90 by mass and more preferably is 50 to 80 by mass.

In the present embodiment the photosensitive material having the photosensitive silver salt layer disposed on the transparent film substrate is subjected to an exposure treatment by the exposure unit . Exposure can be carried out using electromagnetic waves. For example light such as visible light or ultraviolet light or radiation such as X rays or the like may be used to generate electromagnetic waves. Exposure may also be carried out using a light source having a wavelength distribution or a specific wavelength.

Exposure for forming a pattern image may be carried out using a surface exposure method or a scanning exposure method. In the surface exposure method the photosensitive surface is irradiated with uniform light through a mask to form an image of a mask pattern. In the scanning exposure method the photosensitive surface is scanned with a beam of laser light or the like so as to form a patterned irradiated area on the photosensitive surface.

Various types of laser beams can be used to carry out exposure. For example in the present embodiment scanning exposure preferably can be carried out using monochromatic high density light of a gas laser a light emitting diode a semiconductor laser or a second harmonic generation SHG light source containing a nonlinear optical crystal in combination with a semiconductor laser or a solid laser using a semiconductor laser as an excitation source. Also a KrF excimer laser an ArF excimer laser an F2 laser or the like can be used to carry out exposure. To reduce the size and cost of the system it is preferred that exposure be carried out using a semiconductor laser or a second harmonic generation SHG light source containing a nonlinear optical crystal in combination with a semiconductor laser or a solid laser. It is particularly preferred that exposure be carried out using a semiconductor laser from the standpoint of reducing size and cost and for improving durability and stability of the apparatus.

It is preferred that the photosensitive silver salt layer is exposed to the pattern shape by a scanning exposure method using a laser beam. In particular a capstan type laser scanning exposure apparatus as described in Japanese Laid Open Patent Publication No. 2000 039677 is preferably used for such an exposure. In a capstan type apparatus a DMD as described in Japanese Laid Open Patent Publication No. 2004 001224 preferably is used in the optical beam scanning system instead of beam scanning by a rotary polygon mirror. Particularly in the case of producing a long flexible film heater having a length of 3 m or more it is preferred that the photosensitive material be exposed to a laser beam on a curved exposure stage while the material is conveyed.

As described later the mesh pattern M may be a lattice pattern of a triangle a quadrangle e.g. rhombus square a hexagon etc. formed by crossing straight thin wires substantially parallel to each other. Furthermore the mesh pattern M may be a pattern of straight zigzag or wavy wires parallel to each other. No particular limitation is placed thereon insofar as the mesh pattern M is of a structure that enables a current to flow between electrodes to which a voltage is applied.

In the present embodiment after exposure of the emulsion layer the emulsion layer is further subjected to a development treatment. The development treatment can be performed using common development treatment technologies for photographic silver salt films photographic papers print engraving films emulsion masks for photomasking and the like. Although not particularly limited the developer for the development treatment may be a PQ developer an MQ developer an MAA developer etc. Examples of commercially available developers usable in the present invention include CN 16 CR 56 CP45X FD 3 and PAPITOL available from FUJIFILM Corporation and C 41 E 6 RA 4 D 19 and D 72 available from Eastman Kodak Company as well as other developers contained in kits thereof.

The developer may be a lith developer. As one such lith developer D85 available from Eastman Kodak Company can be used. In the present invention by performing the aforementioned exposure and development treatments the metallic silver portion and preferably the patterned metallic silver portion is formed in the exposed area and the light transmitting portion is formed in the unexposed area.

The developer used for the development treatment can contain an image quality improvement agent for improving image quality. Examples of suitable image quality improvement agents can include for example nitrogen containing heterocyclic compounds such as benzotriazole. Further in the case of using a lith developer preferably polyethylene glycol is used.

The ratio of the metallic silver contained in the exposed portion after development to the silver contained in this portion before exposure preferably is 50 or more and more preferably is 80 or more by mass. If the ratio of the silver contained in the exposed portion after development to the silver contained in this portion before exposure is 50 or more by mass high conductivity can be achieved.

In the present embodiment the gradation obtained by the development preferably is in excess of 4.0 although this value is not particularly limited. If the gradation is in excess of 4.0 after development conductivity of the conductive metal portion can be increased while maintaining high transmittance of the light transmitting portion. For example a gradation of 4.0 or more can be achieved by doping with rhodium or iridium ion.

In the present embodiment to increase conductivity of the metallic silver portion formed by the above exposure and development treatments conductive metal particles may be deposited on the metallic silver portions by a physical development treatment and or a plating treatment. In the present embodiment such conductive metal particles may be deposited on the metallic silver portion by only one of the physical development and plating treatments or by a combination of such treatments.

In the present embodiment physical development is defined by a process in which metal ions such as silver ions are reduced by a reducing agent whereby the metal particles are deposited on a metal or metal compound core. Such a physical development process has been used in the fields of instant B W film instant slide film printing plate production etc. and such technologies can also be used in the present invention.

A calendering treatment may be carried out to effect smoothing on the metallic silver portion i.e. the overall surface of the metallic silver portion the metallic mesh pattern portion or the metallic wiring pattern portion . As a result conductivity of the metallic silver portion can be markedly increased. The calendering treatment can be performed using a calender roll wherein such a calender roll typically is made up from a pair of rolls.

As rolls that are used in the calendering process plastic rolls of epoxy polyimide polyamide polyimide amide etc. or metallic rolls are used. In particular in the case of using an emulsion layers on both surfaces preferably processing is carried out by metallic rolls per se. In the case of having an emulsion layer on one side only from the standpoint of preventing wrinkles a metallic roll and a plastic roll can be used together in combination. The lower limit value of linear pressure applied by the rolls is 1960 N cm 200 kgf cm or 699.4 kgf cmif converted to surface pressure or greater and more preferably is 2940 N cm 300 kgf cm or 935.8 kgf cmif converted to surface pressure or greater. The upper limit value of linear pressure is 6880 N cm 700 kgf cm or less.

The applicable temperature at which the smoothing process represented by calender rollers is carried out preferably is within a range of 10 C. without temperature adjustment to 100 C. and more preferably although it differs depending on the type of binder or the image line density and shape of the metallic mesh pattern or the metallic wiring pattern is within a range of 10 C. without temperature adjustment to 50 C.

An advantageous effect can also be brought forth by applying a steam contact treatment together with the calendering treatment immediately prior to or following the calendering treatment. More specifically conductivity can be enhanced significantly. The temperature of the steam that is used preferably is 80 C. or greater and more preferably is 100 C. or higher to 140 C. or less. The contact time during which steam is applied is preferably on the order of from 10 seconds to 5 minutes and more preferably is from 1 minute to 5 minutes.

In the present invention the technologies of the following Japanese Laid Open Patent Publications and PCT International Publication Numbers shown in Tables 1 and 2 can appropriately be used in combination. In the following Tables 1 and 2 conventional notations such as Japanese Laid Open Patent Publication No. Publication No. Pamphlet No. WO etc. have been omitted.

An example of the present invention will be described more specifically below. Materials amounts ratios treatment contents treatment procedures and the like used in the example may be appropriately changed without departing from the essential scope of the present invention. Therefore the following specific example should be considered in all respects as illustrative and not restrictive.

An emulsion containing an aqueous medium gelatin and silver iodobromochloride particles was prepared. The amount of gelatin was 10.0 g per 60 g of Ag and the silver iodobromochloride particles had an I content of 0.2 mol a Br content of 40 mol and an average spherical equivalent diameter of 0.1 m.

KRhBrand KIrClwere added to the emulsion at a concentration of 10mol mol Ag in order to dope the silver bromide particles with Rh and Ir ions. NaPdClwas further added to the emulsion and the resultant emulsion was subjected to gold sulfur sensitization using chlorauric acid and sodium thiosulfate. The emulsion and a gelatin hardening agent were applied to polyethylene terephthalate PET such that the amount of the applied silver was 1 g m. The Ag gelatin volume ratio was .

The PET support body had a width of 30 cm and the emulsion was applied thereto at a width of 25 cm and a length of 20 m. Both end portions of the PET support having a width of 3 cm were cut off in order to obtain a roll shaped photosensitive silver halide material having a central coating width of 24 cm.

Using an SA method as described for the present embodiment see etc. output image data ImgOut representing the first mesh pattern M see and the second mesh pattern M see and made up from irregularly arranged wirings were created respectively.

The set conditions for the first mesh pattern M and the second mesh pattern M were established such that the total transmittance was 93 the thickness of the transparent film substrate was 20 m the width of the metallic thin wires was 20 m and the thickness of the metallic thin wires was 10 m. The pattern size was set to 5 mm both vertically and horizontally and the image resolution was set to 3500 dpi dots per inch . Initial positions of the seed points SD were determined randomly using a Mersenne Twister algorithm and respective polygonal mesh areas were defined using a Voronoi diagram. Evaluation values EVP were calculated based on the L a b image data color values of the image data Img. In addition the same output image data ImgOut were arranged alongside one another in both vertical and horizontal directions to create periodic exposure patterns.

On the other hand the conditions for the black matrix were set such that the optical density was 4.5 D the unit pixel had a vertical size and a horizontal size of 200 m and the widths of the light shielding material and the light shielding material were both 20 m.

Firstly the radio button on the setting screen of was selected and with PRESENCE ABSENCE OF MATRIX being set to ABSENCE the output image data ImgOut was created. As a result output image data ImgOut representing the form of the mesh pattern M shown in was obtained.

Secondly the radio button on the setting screen of was selected and with PRESENCE ABSENCE OF MATRIX being set to PRESENCE the output image data ImgOut was created. As a result output image data ImgOut representing the pattern of the mesh pattern M shown in was obtained.

Exposure was performed in a continuous exposure apparatus in which exposure heads using a DMD Digital Mirror Device as described in the embodiment of the invention described in Japanese Laid Open Patent Publication No. 2004 001224 were arranged at a width of 25 cm the exposure heads and an exposure stage were disposed in a curved position so that laser light could form an image on the photosensitive layer of the photosensitive material a photosensitive material delivering mechanism and a photosensitive material winding mechanism were installed and a bent portion was provided to exhibit a buffering action so that variations of speed of the tension controlling mechanism for the exposure surface and the delivering and winding mechanisms did not affect the speed of exposed portions. The wavelength of exposure light was 400 nm the beam shape was approximately the square of 12 m and the irradiation amount of the laser light source was 100 J.

Using the treatment agents as listed above a development treatment was conducted on the photosensitive material following exposure thereof using an automatic development machine FG 710 PTS manufactured by FUJIFILM Corporation under the following development conditions development 30 seconds at 35 C. fixation 23 seconds at 34 C. water washing 20 seconds under running water 5 L min .

As a running process 100 m day of the photosensitive material was developed for 3 days while supplying 500 ml mof a developer replenisher and 640 ml mof the fixing solution. At this time following a plating process the copper pattern was confirmed to have a line width of 12 m and a pitch of 300 microns.

Further electroless copper plating was conducted at 45 C. by using a plating solution a electroless copper plating solution containing 0.06 mol L of copper sulfate 0.22 mol L of formalin 0.12 mol L of triethanolamine 100 ppm of polyethylene glycol 50 ppm of yellow prussiate of potash and 20 ppm of bipyridine pH 12.5 followed by an oxidation process with an aqueous solution containing 10 ppm of Fe III ions to thereby obtain various samples.

Below the conductive film having the first mesh pattern M is referred to as a first sample and the conductive film having the second mesh pattern M is referred to as a second sample. Conductive films having patterns PT to PT are referred to as third through fifth samples.

To evaluate uniformity in surface resistivity surface resistivities of the conductive films were measured at ten arbitrary sites using LORESTA GP Model MCP T610 inline 4 pin probe type ASP manufactured by Dia Instruments Co. Ltd. to obtain an average value of the surface resistivities.

A commercially available color liquid crystal display screen size 4.7 type 640 480 dots was used. A touch panel on which the first and second samples were adhered was incorporated into the liquid crystal display an LED lamp as auxiliary light was lit up from a back surface of a liquid crystal panel the display screen was observed and a visual evaluation of noise sensation was carried out. Visual confirmation of such noise was carried out from the front side of the liquid crystal panel at an observation distance of 300 mm.

Ten sheets of first through fifth samples having levels sufficiently practical as transparent electrodes and in terms of surface resistivity and with good transparency were realized. In particular the fourth and fifth samples conductive film according to the present invention exhibited the lowest variance in surface resistivity.

In relation to visibility of noise successively highest evaluation values were obtained in order of the first sample the second sample the fifth sample the third sample and the fourth sample. Such an order matches with the order in which the areas exhibited by the peaks of the spectra Spc illustrated in become successively larger. In particular it was confirmed that the sensation of noise exhibited by the first sample conductive film according to the present invention was hardly noticeable at all.

Furthermore using a transparent substrate instead of the liquid crystal panel light across the aforementioned LED lamp was observed and a similar visual evaluation was carried out whereby it was confirmed that in the case of the first sample the sensation of noise was considerably less noticeable than in the case of the second sample. More specifically it was appreciated that the pattern of the mesh pattern M could be optimized responsive to the visual aspects of the conductive film e.g. color filters such as the red filters or the like and presence or absence of the black matrix .

In this manner a plurality of positions seed points SD are selected from within a predetermined two dimensional image region and based on the selected positions seed points SD image data Img are created representing the pattern of a mesh pattern M and further based on the created image data Img an evaluation value EVP obtained by quantifying noise characteristics of the mesh pattern M is calculated. Then based on the calculated evaluation value EVP and predetermined evaluation conditions one of the image data Img is determined as output image data ImgOut and based on the determined output image data ImgOut a wire material is output and formed on the transparent film substrate . Therefore the shape of a mesh pattern M having noise characteristics that satisfy the predetermined evaluation conditions can be determined. Stated otherwise by appropriately controlling the noise characteristics of the mesh pattern M the sensation of noise can be reduced.

Further a mesh pattern M is formed such that in relation to the centroid spectra Spcc of respective meshes an average intensity Pon the side of a spatial frequency band higher than a predetermined spatial frequency Fb is made greater than an average intensity Pon the side of a spatial frequency band lower than the predetermined spatial frequency Fb. Thus compared to the low spatial frequency band side the amount of noise on the side of the high spatial frequency band is relatively large. Human vision exhibits a property in which the response characteristic thereof is high in low spatial frequency bands whereas in mid to high spatial frequency bands the response characteristic rapidly decreases and thus the sensation of noise as perceived visually by humans decreases. Owing thereto granular noise caused by the pattern possessed by the conductive film can be lowered whereby visibility of objects to be observed can be significantly enhanced. Further because a plurality of polygonal meshes are provided the cross sectional shape of the respective wires metallic thin wires after cutting is substantially constant and thus stable power performance is exhibited.

The present invention is not limited to the embodiment described above but various changes and modifications may be made without departing from the scope of the invention.

The pattern material is not limited to being a black matrix and it goes without saying that responsive to the various uses thereof the present invention can be applied with respect to structural patterns of various shapes.

