---

title: Detection of faulty radio oscillator or faulty mobile timing measurements
abstract: Detection of a faulty radio oscillator is provided herein. Also provided herein is detection of faulty mobile timing measurements. Timing measurements, as observed by a mobile device, and an identification of primary scrambling codes associated with the timing measurements are captured. The primary scrambling codes match each timing measurement with a particular radio. The mobile device can also report its location information. Radios for which timing measurements have been received are paired. Based on the paired radios and an associated observed time delay derived from the timing measurements, comparisons can be made between paired radios having at least one common radio. Radios exhibiting an expected timing value can be removed from the analysis in order to isolate a radio that has a faulty radio oscillator.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09191849&OS=09191849&RS=09191849
owner: AT&T MOBILITY II LLC
number: 09191849
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150206
---
This application is a continuation of and claims priority to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 537 690 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 989 730 filed 29 Jun. 2012 and entitled DETECTION OF FAULTY RADIO OSCILLATOR OR FAULTY MOBILE TIMING MEASUREMENTS the entirety of which is incorporated herein by reference.

The subject disclosure relates to wireless communications and more particularly to faulty radio oscillator detection or faulty mobile timing measurement detection.

Wide adoption of mobile devices along with ubiquitous cellular data coverage has resulted in an explosive growth of mobile applications that expect always accessible wireless networking. This explosion has placed strains on resources that are scarce in the mobile world. On the user side dropped calls have been blamed for user dissatisfaction. On the network side instances of dropped calls can occur due to a faulty radio oscillator and or due to faulty mobile timing measurements.

Aspects of the subject disclosure will now be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings in which example embodiments are shown. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the various embodiments. However the subject disclosure may be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the example embodiments set forth herein.

An aspect relates to a system comprising at least one memory that stores computer executable instructions and at least one processor communicatively coupled to the at least one memory. The at least one processor can facilitate execution of the computer executable instructions to at least obtain from a first mobile device a first set of timing measurements for a first set of radios and a first location of the first mobile device. The processor can also facilitate execution of the computer executable instructions to obtain from a second mobile device a second set of timing measurements for a second set of radios and a second location of the second mobile device. The processor can also facilitate execution of the computer executable instructions to determine radio pairs from the first set of timing measurements and the second set of timing measurements. Further the processor can also facilitate execution of the computer executable instructions to evaluate a subset of the radio pairs from the determined radio pairs relative to other radio pairs having a common radio in order to isolate a radio having a faulty radio oscillator based on respective timing measurements and respective locations of radios of the subset of the radio pairs.

In an example the at least one processor can further facilitate the execution of the computer executable instructions to determine that at least one radio from the subset of radio pairs comprises an expected timing measurement within a tolerance. The processor can also facilitate the execution of the computer executable instructions to eliminate the at least one radio as having the faulty radio oscillator.

In another example the at least one processor can facilitate the execution of the computer executable instructions to compute observed time difference values for the subset of the radio pairs and determine propagation delay values based on the respective locations. Further to this example the at least one processor can further facilitate the execution of the computer executable instructions to remove the observed time difference values and the propagation delay values from the respective timing measurements to obtain real time delays. The at least one processor can also facilitate the execution of the computer executable instructions to identify the radio with a real time delay that is different than an expected real time delay value within a tolerance as the radio with the faulty radio oscillator.

The at least one processor according to another example can further facilitate the execution of the computer executable instructions to output a report that identifies the radio having the faulty radio oscillator. In another example the at least one processor can facilitate the execution of the computer executable instructions to associate each timing measurement in the first set of timing measurements and the second set of timing measurements with respective primary scrambling codes.

In another example the at least one processor can facilitate the execution of the computer executable instructions to determine a first type of the first mobile device and a second type of the second mobile device. Further to this example the processor can facilitate the execution of the computer executable instructions to evaluate the subset of the radio pairs based on the first type being different from the second type.

The at least one processor according to another example can facilitate the execution of the computer executable instructions to identify a first fixed reference based on the first location and a second fixed reference based on the second location. Further to this example the at least one processor can also facilitate the execution of computer executable instructions to store the first set of timing measurements with the first fixed reference and the second set of timing measurements with the second fixed reference as historical data.

The at least one processor in accordance with another example can facilitate the execution of the computer executable instructions to determine that one or more timing measurements from the first set of timing measurements are outliers based on a comparison with timing measurements from the second set of timing measurements. The at least one processor can also facilitate the execution of the computer executable instructions to remove the outliers from evaluation to isolate the radio having the faulty radio oscillator.

According to another example the at least one processor can facilitate the execution of the computer executable instructions to receive the first set of timing measurements and the second set of timing measurements in respective radio resource measurement reports and receive the first location and the second location information in respective radio access network application protocol location reports.

The at least one processor in an example can further facilitate the execution of the computer executable instructions to receive the first set of timing measurements and the second set of timing measurements as respective reference signal time difference values.

In another example embodiment an aspect relates to a system comprising at least one memory that stores computer executable instructions and at least one processor communicatively coupled to the at least one memory. The at least one processor can facilitate execution of the computer executable instructions to at least obtain from a first mobile device a first set of timing measurements for a first set of radios and a first location of the first mobile device. The processor can also facilitate execution of the computer executable instructions to obtain from a second mobile device a second set of timing measurements for a second set of radios and a second location of the second mobile device. The processor can also facilitate execution of the computer executable instructions to determine radio pairs from the first set of timing measurements and the second set of timing measurements. Further the processor can also facilitate execution of the computer executable instructions to evaluate a subset of the radio pairs from the determined radio pairs relative to other radio pairs having a common radio in order to isolate a radio having a faulty radio oscillator based on respective timing measurements and respective locations of radios of the subset of the radio pairs.

Another embodiment relates to a method that can include receiving by a system comprising at least one processor a first set of reports for a first mobile device and a second set of reports for a second mobile device. The method can also include analyzing by the system observed time differences between radio pairs identified from the first set of reports and radio pairs identified from the second set of reports including comparing the observed time differences. Further the method can include determining by the system a radio has a faulty oscillator based in part on the analyzing.

Another embodiment relates to a non transitory computer readable storage medium storing computer executable instructions that in response to execution cause a system including a processor to perform operations. The operations can include storing a first set of observed time difference measurements received from a first user device and associated with a reported location of the first user device a second set of observed time difference measurements received from a second user device and associated with a reported location of the second user device and a third set of observed time difference measurements received from a third user device and associated with a reported location of the third user device. The operations can also include comparing pairs of sectors identified in the first second and third set of observed time difference measurements. The pairs of sectors have at least one common sector. The operations can also include detecting a faulty radio oscillator for at least one of the sectors of the pairs of sectors based in part on the comparing.

It is noted that although various aspects and embodiments are discussed herein with respect to Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS the subject disclosure is not limited to a UMTS implementation. For example aspects or features of the disclosed embodiments can be exploited in substantially any wireless communication technology. Such wireless communication technologies can include Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS Code Division Multiple Access CDMA Wi Fi Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WiMAX General Packet Radio Service GPRS Enhanced GPRS Third Generation Partnership Project 3GPP Long Term Evolution LTE Third Generation Partnership Project 2 3GPP2 Ultra Mobile Broadband UMB High Speed Packet Access HSPA Evolved High Speed Packet Access HSPA High Speed Downlink Packet Access HSDPA High Speed Uplink Packet Access HSUPA Zigbee or another IEEE 802.XX technology. Additionally substantially all aspects disclosed herein can be exploited in legacy telecommunication technologies.

Referring initially to illustrated is an example non limiting wireless communications environment in which the disclosed aspects can be utilized according to an embodiment. A wireless communications environment can comprise any number of sectors or cells . The illustrated wireless communications environment includes a first sector a second sector a third sector and a fourth sector although more or fewer than four sectors can be utilized in a wireless communications environment. Each sector has a respective geographic area or coverage area. For example first sector has a first coverage area second sector has a second coverage area third sector has a third coverage area and fourth sector has a fourth coverage area .

Also illustrated are two mobile devices labeled as a first mobile device and a second mobile device although more than two mobile devices can be operated within the wireless communications environment . As utilized herein a mobile device can include a UMTS based electronic device such as but not limited to a cell phone a PDA personal digital assistant a media player a digital camera a media recorder a laptop a personal computer a printer a scanner a tablet a GPS global positioning system module a gaming module and so forth. Further the device can also include UMTS based appliances that can be employed for example in a home office building retail store restaurant hotel factory warehouse and so on. As previously noted although the various aspects are discussed herein with reference to UMTS the aspects are not limited to an UMTS implementation. Instead the various aspects can be utilized with other network technologies and UMTS technology is utilized herein for purposes of simplicity.

As the first mobile device and the second mobile device are moved within the wireless communications environment and or are moved into or out of the coverage area s of the wireless communications environment one or more handoffs may occur. A handoff also referred to as a handover is a process of transferring an ongoing call or an ongoing data session between base stations e.g. sectors so as to mitigate communication coverage disruptions. For example as second mobile device is moved from third coverage area to fourth coverage area a seamless handoff can occur from third sector to fourth sector .

In the case of a UMTS network for example the handoff can be a soft handoff. During a soft handoff the mobile device e.g. second mobile device is connected to two or more sectors e.g. third sector and fourth sector at substantially the same time as the communication is occurring. To facilitate the soft handover the mobile device can perform and report power measurements of the neighboring sectors to determine whether a handover should be requested.

Some problems that can develop during soft handover are related to a faulty radio oscillator. Radio oscillators should maintain oscillator stability within a defined tolerance. When an oscillator falls outside the defined tolerance a mobile device can experience increased difficulty during soft handover operations. Soft handover failures can be mitigated with the disclosed aspects by detection of radio oscillator instability through observations against multiple radio base stations e.g. sectors . For example mobile devices can measure observed time differences between Node B s during event based handover areas and at other times e.g. periodically as defined within the 3G Radio Access Network . These measurements when observed over time and through multiple NodeB relationships can be utilized to reveal radio oscillator instability as disclosed herein.

For example a method of faulty radio oscillator detection includes observing indirect performance matrixes such as noting issues with handover between a particular site and or problems trying to access a site. Detection of a faulty radio oscillator would be performed based on trial and error. For example if a problem is occurring the entire radio might be removed and replaced. Later after performance of various failure analysis tests e.g. at the manufacturer s facility it might be determined that the oscillator is not stable. However such failure analysis testing occurs after the entire radio is replaced and after costly and time consuming analysis is performed. Further after the entire radio is replaced it might be determined that the oscillator is performing correctly and that the problem was elsewhere on the network and or mobile device s .

System can be implemented in a network e.g. base station access point sector NodeB and so forth . As previously noted although the various aspects are discussed herein with reference to UMTS the disclosed aspects are not limited to an UMTS implementation. Instead the various aspects can be utilized with other network technologies and UMTS technology is utilized herein for purposes of simplicity while explaining the various aspects.

System can include at least one memory that can store computer executable components and computer executable instructions. System can also include at least one processor communicatively coupled to the at least one memory . Coupling can include various communications including but not limited to direct communications indirect communications wired communications and or wireless communications. The at least one processor can facilitate execution of the computer executable components and instructions stored in the memory . It is noted that although one or more computer executable components may be described herein and illustrated as components separate from memory e.g. operatively connected to memory in accordance with various embodiments the one or more computer executable components could be stored in the memory . Further while various components have been illustrated as separate components it will be appreciated that multiple components can be implemented as a single component or a single component can be implemented as multiple components without departing from example embodiments.

System can also include a reception component that can be configured to receive reports from a multitude of mobile devices e.g. first mobile device second mobile device and so forth . For example each mobile device can measure multiple radios during defined events related to soft handover. These measurements can be reported by the mobile device to the network e.g. to reception component . In an implementation the measurements can be reported by the mobile device in a Radio Resource Control RRC Measurement Report. In another implementation the measurements can be received as reference signal time difference RSTD measurements.

The measurements can comprise for each radio e.g. radio for each sector a primary scrambling code and a timing measurement Tm value. The primary scrambling code can be utilized to distinguish each sector s transmissions from transmissions from other sectors or cells . The Tm value is a timing measurement representing the difference between the SFN System Frame Number and the CFN Connection Frame Number as received at the mobile device for each radio.

Another report received by the reception component can be a location report that identifies the geographic coordinates or location e.g. latitude longitude altitude of the mobile device at the time or substantially the same time as the report is generated by the mobile device. In an implementation the location can be a RANAP Radio Access Network Application Protocol Location Report that can be conveyed to the network e.g. to reception component when requested by an external service through the control plane or at a different time.

The one or more reports received from the mobile devices e.g. a mobile device can convey more than one report and or multiple mobile devices can transmit one or more reports can be stored in a database as illustrated or another computer readable storage medium. It is noted that a database e.g. database can include volatile memory or nonvolatile memory or can include both volatile memory and nonvolatile memory. By way of illustration and not limitation nonvolatile memory can include read only memory ROM programmable ROM PROM electrically programmable ROM EPROM electrically erasable PROM EEPROM or flash memory. Volatile memory can include random access memory RAM which can operate as external cache memory. By way of illustration and not limitation RAM is available in many forms such as static RAM SRAM dynamic RAM DRAM synchronous DRAM SDRAM double data rate SDRAM DDR SDRAM enhanced SDRAM ESDRAM Synchlink DRAM SLDRAM and direct Rambus RAM DRRAM . The memory e.g. data stores databases and so on of the various disclosed aspects is intended to comprise without being limited to these and any other suitable types of memory. In an aspect database is included as a component within the disclosed systems. However according to other aspects the database can be located remote from the system but can be accessed by system e.g. over an air interface .

Also included in system is an assessment component that can be configured to perform comparisons associated with the Tm values primary scrambling codes and the mobile device location reports. The assessment component can utilize both historical data e.g. data reported earlier in minutes hours days weeks and so forth with current data e.g. date reported within the last few minutes . In an implementation the assessment component can be configured to determine pairings of the sectors as reported by the mobile devices. The pairings can be determined by the assessment component based on the primary scrambling code associated with each timing measurement. For example as many mobile devices e.g. 10 devices 15 devices 30 devices 76 devices and so forth report timing measurements and associated primary scrambling code information as well as respective position information the assessment component can determine which sectors are within close proximity of each other and can be paired.

For example when a first mobile device reports timing measurements of a first set of sectors it is in indication that the mobile device at its current location is within or near the coverage areas of the sectors within the first set of sectors. Further when a second mobile device reports timing measurements of a second set of sectors it indicates that the second mobile device at its current location is within or near the coverage areas of the sectors within the second set of sectors. Subsequent mobile devices can also report timing measurements of subsequent sets of sectors. In some aspects the same sector s can be contained within each set e.g. first set second set subsequent sets such as in the case where the mobile devices are located in substantially the same location or within a certain area. In some cases there might not be overlap of the sectors within the sets such as if the mobile devices are located in different areas of a city on opposite sides of a tall building and so forth.

For example a first mobile device reports timing measurements for Sector A Sector B and Sector D a second mobile device reports timing measurements for Sector B Sector C and Sector D and a third mobile device reports timing measurements for Sector B Sector E and Sector F. Based on these reports the assessment component can determine sector pairings such as Sector A Sector B pair AB pair AD pair BA pair BD pair BC pair CB pair CD pair DC pair BE pair BF pair EF pair FE pair and so on.

In another example the timing measurements can be utilized at substantially the same time as neighbor lists intra frequency and or inter frequency . A neighbor list is a table that associates each sector with its neighboring sectors and which a mobile device can use to initiate a handover request. The neighbor list can be stored in a database or memory. The assessment component can compare the timing measurements received with the neighbor list and determine the pairing if the sectors are indicated as neighbors. Thus according to this example if the sectors are not identified in the list as neighbors the pairing between the sectors might not be created. However according to various implementations a neighbor list is not utilized with the disclosed aspects.

Based on the pairings and through a process of elimination a faulty radio oscillator can be detected which might also be indicated if various problems have been observed within a wireless communications environment e.g. soft handover issues . In an example assessment component can evaluate the pairings associated with a first sector e.g. Sector B and a fixed location e.g. location as reported by the mobile device s . If the timing measurements of some pairings of Sector B e.g. pairings AB BA BC CB and so forth are good e.g. the timing measurements of each pairing represents an expected value within a tolerance except when paired with sector C assessment component can determine that Sector B is operating correctly and can eliminate Sector B as having a defective radio oscillator. Assessment component might also make a preliminary determination that Sector C might be faulty and can evaluate the other pairings. Further to this example Sector A s measurements relative to the other sector s measurements might be good in all cases except for the AC pairing or the CA pairing . Thus assessment component can eliminate Sector A as having a defective radio oscillator. Assessment component can continue the evaluations of the pairs wherein the pairs comprise at least one common sector and in a similar manner eliminate other sectors by determining those other sectors do not have a defective oscillator. Through this process the sector that has the defective radio oscillator e.g. Sector C in this example can be isolated and identified by the assessment component . Further details related to the elimination and isolation of sectors will be provided below.

Also included in system is an output component that can be configured to convey information to a network operator or another user and or entity e.g. the Internet another system a computer machinery and so forth hereinafter referred to as users and or entity depending on the context. In an example a request can be sent to system in order to initiate the analysis of the various sectors and identification of a potential faulty radio oscillator. However according to some aspects the analysis and identification is ongoing such that as mobile devices provide reports a faulty radio oscillator is detected and identified automatically.

At substantially the same time as the analysis is completed by system or sometime thereafter output component can convey the information to a user and or entity. In an implementation the analysis information can be transmitted in an exception report that includes the identified sector and or can include analysis and information related to the other sectors e.g. sector identification timing measurements reported by the mobile devices an identification of the type of each mobile device and so forth . Based on the analysis received from output component the faulty radio oscillator can be replaced or another action can be performed e.g. entire radio replaced maintenance scheduled no action until further analysis is received and so forth as deemed appropriate based on various considerations including standard operating procedures related to the network.

Each mobile device can also report timing measurements values Tm values which are the timing measurements as measured by each mobile device. In an implementation the Tm values can be reported in an RRC measurement report or a different type or name of report. Each Tm value can be associated with a primary scrambling code PSC which differentiate radios e.g. WCDMA radios from one another as detected by the mobile device. The PSC can be transmitted in the RRC measurement report according to an implementation.

Each mobile device can also reports its current location e.g. position information which can include various geographic coordinates including latitude longitude and or altitude. In an implementation the current location of the mobile device can be received in a RANAP location report or a different type or name of report.

The various information from each mobile device e.g. IMSI Tm PSC current location can be received by reception component . Further the various information can be stored in database . The various information and or reports can be stored in the database or other storage medium in any type of format e.g. table list and so forth that allows the information to be accessed as needed.

Also included in system is an association component that can be configured to create pairs of sectors. The pairs of sectors can be created by association component based on all possible combinations of the Tm values as reported by each mobile device. For example the pairs can be formed based on radios from a single site or from radios on one or more different sites.

Based on the pairs created by association component an evaluation component can be configured to determine which sector in the reported sectors is the sector that has a radio oscillator failure. The evaluation component can isolate a potential faulty radio oscillator by eliminating all other radios in the pairs of sectors e.g. based on pairs that share a common sector . In some cases a faulty radio oscillator might not be included in any of the pairs and evaluation component can provide information that there was no faulty radio oscillator detected. However in some aspects if a faulty radio oscillator is not detected no further action is performed by evaluation component for that particular analysis e.g. no information is provided to output component .

For example each Tm value when compared with all other radio Tm values yields an observed time difference OTD where OTD Tm Tm where j and i represents Site j and Site i respectively. The location report or current location can provide a fixed reference location for each Tm value. In the case of a UMTS network which might not be GPS synchronized the fixed reference location is established based on the location report when the location report is received at about the same time the Tm values are received. Once the fixed reference location is obtained the OTD measures can be recorded e.g. stored in database . Overtime as many measurements are obtained a single radio issue can be detected as compared with all other radios for which information has been received. In an implementation the OTD and a propagation delay can be removed from the Tm value resulting in a real time difference RTD between the pairs of sectors. The propagation delay is the amount of time that it takes for the signal to go from the sector side radio to the mobile device. The RTD can represent the back end stability of the system and should be the same for all mobile devices unless a faulty oscillator is present.

In an implementation outlier component can review the timing measurements received from each device and can cause other system components to ignore faulty measurements. For example outlier component can utilize outlier detection which can include identifying timing measurements that are distinct from a set of other substantially the same timing measurements e.g. timing measurements from the same sector timing measurements at the same or similar location and so forth . If one or more distinct timing measurements are discovered outlier component can remove e.g. delete the distinct timing measurement from the database according to an aspect.

In another implementation outlier component can be configured to flag the one or more timing measurements wherein the flag instructs the other system components to ignore the flagged timing measurement. In some implementations outlier component can delete or flag all measurements and associated sector pairs from the mobile device that exhibits the potentially erroneous measurement reports.

System includes an identifier component that can be configured to separate the reports based on mobile type. Information related to the type of mobile device that is reporting the various information e.g. timing measurements position information and so forth can be derived from the IMSI conveyed by the mobile device. For example identifier component can access a database or other storage media that contains information that can be used to cross reference the IMSI to a mobile type. Identifier component can separate the various reported information by mobile type. Over time the reported information can be reviewed to determine whether a particular mobile type is providing incorrect measurements.

If it is determined that a particular mobile type is reporting incorrect information outlier component can remove the measurements and other reported information reported by mobile devices of the identified type. In another implementation outlier component can flag the information which can be selectively ignored by other system components when attempting to detect the presence of a faulty radio oscillator.

Additionally or alternatively identifier component can be configured to ascertain the type of mobile device providing the reports e.g. timing information primary scrambling code and so forth . If the reports are received from a single mobile device type the reports might not be considered. However if the reports are received from two or more mobile devices of different types the reports might be deemed acceptable to be analyzed for the presence of a faulty radio oscillator as discussed herein.

An example classifier can be a function that maps an input attribute vector x x1 x2 x3 x4 xn to a confidence that the input belongs to a class that is f x confidence class . Such classification can employ a probabilistic and or statistical based analysis e.g. factoring into the analysis utilities and costs to prognose or infer an action that should be automatically performed. In the case of communication systems for example attributes can be information stored in the database and the classes can be categories or areas of interest e.g. timing measurements related to sector pairs .

A support vector machine SVM is an example of a classifier that can be employed. The SVM can operate by finding a hypersurface in the space of possible inputs which the hypersurface attempts to split the triggering criteria from the non triggering events. Intuitively this makes the classification correct for testing data that is near but not identical to training data. Other directed and undirected model classification approaches include for example na ve Bayes Bayesian networks decision trees neural networks fuzzy logic models and probabilistic classification models providing different patterns of independence can be employed. Classification as used herein also may be inclusive of statistical regression that is utilized to develop models of priority.

As will be readily noted the disclosed aspects can employ classifiers that are explicitly trained e.g. through a generic training data as well as implicitly trained e.g. through observing timing measurements and other received data receiving extrinsic information and so on . For example SVMs can be configured through a learning or training phase within a classifier constructor and feature selection module. Thus the classifier s can be used to automatically learn and perform a number of functions including but not limited to determining according to a predetermined criteria whether a faulty radio oscillator has been detected whether a type of mobile device is providing incorrect information and so on. The criteria can include but is not limited to historical timing measurements mobile device type problems associated with soft handover within a wireless communications network location of the mobile device operating procedures associated with the network and so on.

In view of the example systems shown and described herein methods that may be implemented in accordance with the one or more of the disclosed aspects will be better understood with reference to the following flow charts. While for purposes of simplicity of explanation the methods are shown and described as a series of blocks it is to be understood that the disclosed aspects are not limited by the number or order of blocks as some blocks may occur in different orders and or at substantially the same time with other blocks from what is depicted and described herein. Moreover not all illustrated blocks may be required to implement the methods described hereinafter. It is noted that the functionality associated with the blocks may be implemented by software hardware a combination thereof or any other suitable means e.g. device system process component and so forth . Additionally it is also noted that the methods disclosed hereinafter and throughout this specification are capable of being stored on an article of manufacture to facilitate transporting and transferring such methodologies to various devices. Those skilled in the art will understand that a method could alternatively be represented as a series of interrelated states or events such as in a state diagram. The various methods disclosed herein can be performed by a system comprising at least one processor.

At the radio pairings are determined as a result of the received information. For example there are four radios on the same site although the four radios can be on different sites the same site is utilized for example purposes . The four radios are Radio K Radio I Radio J and Radio M. An RRC measurement report or a different report comprising timing measurement information is received for the four radios and are paired together to derive relative timing measurements. Thus there is a Radio K Radio I KI measurement a Radio K Radio J KJ measurement a Radio K Radio M KM measurement as well as other pairings e.g. Radio I Radio J IJ measurement Radio I Radio M IM measurement Radio J Radio M JM measurement and so forth . Thus the different combinations are identified.

For each pair of measurements position information is available e.g. from the RANAP report that provides a specific location of the mobile device at the time of the measurement . Thus if the timing measurement and the position information are provided at substantially the same time it can be assumed that the relative measurements that are being reviewed occurred at that location or substantially at that location .

The time difference of arrival TDOA for calculating multilateration for locating a mobile device can be utilized in part because the disclosed aspects are utilized to find various parameters related to the network. For example a portion of the TDOA is an observed time difference OTD which is the OTD as observed by the mobile device and what is utilized to perform the above noted pairings.

At at least one radio from the radio pairings is identified as being unstable. The identification can be based on observations of the one radio based on its radio pairings as compared to the other radios based on their respective radio pairings wherein the radio pairings share a common radio.

Through a process of elimination a radio that exhibits instability can be ascertained. For example there are four radios Radio K Radio I Radio J and Radio M which results in at least the following parings KI KJ KM IK IJ IM JK JI JM MK MI and MJ. In this example it is observed that Radio I can be eliminated because Radio I is good in all cases e.g. IJ IM JI MI except when paired with Radio K e.g. KI IK . Further Radio J can be eliminated because Radio J is observed to be good in all cases e.g. IJ JI MJ JM except when paired with Radio K e.g. KJ JK . Further to this example Radio M can be eliminated because Radio M is observed to be good in all cases e.g. IM JM MI MJ except when paired with Radio K e.g. KM MK . Thus in this example Radio K can be isolated as being faulty or unstable.

The timing measurements and associated position information can be stored at in a retrievable format. For example the information can be stored in a memory or a database as historical data . As other mobile devices or the same mobile device provide additional timing measurements and associated position information the data is aggregated with the previously received information. In an example the information can be stored as a mapping wherein the timing information is mapped to an identification of the radio. Further the timing information and radio identification can be mapped to a location of the mobile device when the timing information was reported.

At radio pairs from the timing measurements for the first set and the second set of radios are determined Continuing the example where the first set contains timing information related to Sector A Sector C and Sector D and the second set contains timing information related to Sector D Sector E and Sector F the radio pairs that can be determined include A C pair A D pair C D pair D E pair D F pair E F pair and so forth.

The observed time difference is ascertained at based on subtracting a time measurement of a first sector from a time measurement of a second sector. For example the observed time difference for sector pair C D is obtained by subtracting the time measurement of sector D from the time measurement of sector C OTD Tm Tm . The observed time difference and a propagation delay are removed from the respective timing measurements to obtain a real time delay. At each radio pair is evaluated with respect to other radio pairs having a common radio to isolate a radio having a faulty radio oscillator.

In an implementation the analysis at can include matching at sets of two radios in the first set of reports to determine radio pairs and matching sets of two radios in the second set of reports to determine radio pairs. Further at the observed time difference of radio pairs that comprise at least one common radio are analyzed to determine the radio that has the faulty oscillator if any. In an implementation the first set of reports can comprise timing measurements and associated primary scrambling codes measured by the first mobile device and the second set of reports can comprise timing measurements and associated primary scrambling codes measured by the second mobile device.

In some implementations method can include generating at a report that identifies the radio having the faulty radio oscillator. At the report is output to at least one device e.g. a computer associated with a network operator . In accordance with some aspects information about the identified faulty radio oscillator can be transmitted to a network operator through an exception report or through another means of conveying the information related to the faulty oscillator.

According to some aspects the method can include identifying a first mobile type of the first mobile device and a second mobile type of the second mobile device. Further to this aspect determining the radio has the faulty oscillator is performed if the first mobile type and the second mobile type are different.

In accordance with some aspects the method can include determining one or more timing measurements from a first set of timing measurements are outliers when compared with timing measurements from a second set of timing measurements. Further to this aspect the method can include removing the outliers from the determination of a faulty radio oscillator.

By way of further description with respect to one or more non limiting ways to detect a faulty oscillator and or to detect faulty mobile timing measurements is a schematic example wireless environment that can operate in accordance with aspects described herein. In particular example wireless environment illustrates a set of wireless network macro cells. Three coverage macro cells and include the illustrative wireless environment however it is noted that wireless cellular network deployments can encompass any number of macro cells. Coverage macro cells and are illustrated as hexagons however coverage cells can adopt other geometries generally dictated by a deployment configuration or floor plan geographic areas to be covered and so on. Each macro cell and is sectorized in a 2 3 configuration in which each macro cell includes three sectors demarcated with dashed lines in . It is noted that other sectorizations are possible and aspects or features of the disclosed subject matter can be exploited regardless of type of sectorization. Macro cells and are served respectively through base stations or eNodeBs and . Any two eNodeBs can be considered an eNodeB site pair NBSP . It is noted that radio component s are functionally coupled through links such as cables e.g. RF and microwave coaxial lines ports switches connectors and the like to a set of one or more antennas that transmit and receive wireless signals not illustrated . It is noted that a radio network controller not shown which can be a part of mobile network platform s and set of base stations e.g. eNode B and that serve a set of macro cells electronic circuitry or components associated with the base stations in the set of base stations a set of respective wireless links e.g. links and operated in accordance to a radio technology through the base stations form a macro radio access network RAN . It is further noted that based on network features the radio controller can be distributed among the set of base stations or associated radio equipment. In an aspect for UMTS based networks wireless links and embody a Uu interface UMTS Air Interface .

Mobile network platform s facilitates circuit switched CS based e.g. voice and data and packet switched PS e.g. internet protocol IP frame relay or asynchronous transfer mode ATM traffic and signaling generation as well as delivery and reception for networked telecommunication in accordance with various radio technologies for disparate markets. Telecommunication is based at least in part on standardized protocols for communication determined by a radio technology utilized for communication. In addition telecommunication can exploit various frequency bands or carriers which include any EM frequency bands licensed by the service provider network e.g. personal communication services PCS advanced wireless services AWS general wireless communications service GWCS and so forth and any unlicensed frequency bands currently available for telecommunication e.g. the 2.4 GHz industrial medical and scientific IMS band or one or more of the 5 GHz set of bands . In addition mobile network platform s can control and manage base stations and and radio component s associated thereof in disparate macro cells and by way of for example a wireless network management component e.g. radio network controller s cellular gateway node s etc. Moreover wireless network platform s can integrate disparate networks e.g. femto network s Wi Fi network s femto cell network s broadband network s service network s enterprise network s and so on . In cellular wireless technologies e.g. 3rd Generation Partnership Project 3GPP Universal Mobile Telecommunication System UMTS Global System for Mobile Communication GSM mobile network platform can be embodied in the service provider network .

In addition wireless backhaul link s can include wired link components such as T1 E1 phone line a digital subscriber line DSL either synchronous or asynchronous an asymmetric DSL ADSL an optical fiber backbone a coaxial cable etc. and wireless link components such as line of sight LOS or non LOS links which can include terrestrial air interfaces or deep space links e.g. satellite communication links for navigation . In an aspect for UMTS based networks wireless backhaul link s embodies IuB interface.

It is noted that while example wireless environment is illustrated for macro cells and macro base stations aspects features and advantages of the disclosed subject matter can be implemented in microcells picocells femto cells or the like wherein base stations are embodied in home based equipment related to access to a network.

To provide further context for various aspects of the disclosed subject matter illustrates a block diagram of an embodiment of access equipment and or software related to access of a network e.g. base station wireless access point femtocell access point and so forth that can enable and or exploit features or aspects of the disclosed aspects.

Access equipment and or software related to access of a network can receive and transmit signal s from and to wireless devices wireless ports wireless routers etc. through segments B is a positive integer . Segments can be internal and or external to access equipment and or software related to access of a network and can be controlled by a monitor component and an antenna component . Monitor component and antenna component can couple to communication platform which can include electronic components and associated circuitry that provide for processing and manipulation of received signal s and other signal s to be transmitted.

In an aspect communication platform includes a receiver transmitter that can convert analog signals to digital signals upon reception of the analog signals and can convert digital signals to analog signals upon transmission. In addition receiver transmitter can divide a single data stream into multiple parallel data streams or perform the reciprocal operation. Coupled to receiver transmitter can be a multiplexer demultiplexer that can facilitate manipulation of signals in time and frequency space. Multiplexer demultiplexer can multiplex information data traffic and control signaling according to various multiplexing schemes such as time division multiplexing TDM frequency division multiplexing FDM orthogonal frequency division multiplexing OFDM code division multiplexing CDM space division multiplexing SDM . In addition multiplexer demultiplexer component can scramble and spread information e.g. codes according to substantially any code known in the art such as Hadamard Walsh codes Baker codes Kasami codes polyphase codes and so forth .

A modulator demodulator is also a part of communication platform and can modulate information according to multiple modulation techniques such as frequency modulation amplitude modulation e.g. M ary quadrature amplitude modulation QAM with M a positive integer phase shift keying PSK and so forth .

Access equipment and or software related to access of a network also includes a processor configured to confer at least in part functionality to substantially any electronic component in access equipment and or software . In particular processor can facilitate configuration of access equipment and or software through for example monitor component antenna component and one or more components therein. Additionally access equipment and or software can include display interface which can display functions that control functionality of access equipment and or software or reveal operation conditions thereof. In addition display interface can include a screen to convey information to an end user. In an aspect display interface can be an LCD Liquid Crystal Display a plasma panel a monolithic thin film based electrochromic display and so on. Moreover display interface can include a component e.g. speaker that facilitates communication of aural indicia which can also be employed in connection with messages that convey operational instructions to an end user. Display interface can also facilitate data entry e.g. through a linked keypad or through touch gestures which can cause access equipment and or software to receive external commands e.g. restart operation .

Broadband network interface facilitates connection of access equipment and or software to a service provider network not shown that can include one or more cellular technologies e.g. 3GPP UMTS GSM and so on. through backhaul link s not shown which enable incoming and outgoing data flow. Broadband network interface can be internal or external to access equipment and or software and can utilize display interface for end user interaction and status information delivery.

Processor can be functionally connected to communication platform and can facilitate operations on data e.g. symbols bits or chips for multiplexing demultiplexing such as effecting direct and inverse fast Fourier transforms selection of modulation rates selection of data packet formats inter packet times and so on. Moreover processor can be functionally connected through data system or an address bus to display interface and broadband network interface to confer at least in part functionality to each of such components.

In access equipment and or software memory can retain location and or coverage area e.g. macro sector identifier s access list s that authorize access to wireless coverage through access equipment and or software sector intelligence that can include ranking of coverage areas in the wireless environment of access equipment and or software radio link quality and strength associated therewith or the like. Memory also can store data structures code instructions and program modules system or device information code sequences for scrambling spreading and pilot transmission access point configuration and so on. Processor can be coupled e.g. through a memory bus to memory in order to store and retrieve information used to operate and or confer functionality to the components platform and interface that reside within access equipment and or software .

As it employed in the subject specification the term processor can refer to substantially any computing processing unit or device including but not limited to including single core processors single processors with software multithread execution capability multi core processors multi core processors with software multithread execution capability multi core processors with hardware multithread technology parallel platforms and parallel platforms with distributed shared memory. Additionally a processor can refer to an integrated circuit an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a digital signal processor DSP a field programmable gate array FPGA a programmable logic controller PLC a complex programmable logic device CPLD a discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions and or processes described herein. Processors can exploit nano scale architectures such as but not limited to molecular and quantum dot based transistors switches and gates in order to optimize space usage or enhance performance of mobile devices. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing processing units.

In the subject specification terms such as store data store data storage database and substantially any other information storage component relevant to operation and functionality of a component and or process refer to memory components or entities embodied in a memory or components including the memory. It is noted that the memory components described herein can be either volatile memory or nonvolatile memory or can include both volatile and nonvolatile memory.

By way of illustration and not limitation nonvolatile memory for example can be included in memory non volatile memory see below disk storage see below and memory storage see below . Further nonvolatile memory can be included in read only memory ROM programmable ROM PROM electrically programmable ROM EPROM electrically erasable ROM EEPROM or flash memory. Volatile memory can include random access memory RAM which acts as external cache memory. By way of illustration and not limitation RAM is available in many forms such as synchronous RAM SRAM dynamic RAM DRAM synchronous DRAM SDRAM double data rate SDRAM DDR SDRAM enhanced SDRAM ESDRAM Synchlink DRAM SLDRAM and direct Rambus RAM DRRAM . Additionally the disclosed memory components of systems or methods herein are intended to include without being limited to including these and any other suitable types of memory.

In order to provide a context for the various aspects of the disclosed subject matter and the following discussion are intended to provide a brief general description of a suitable environment in which the various aspects of the disclosed subject matter can be implemented. While the subject matter has been described above in the general context of computer executable instructions of a computer program that runs on a computer and or computers those skilled in the art will recognize that the various aspects also can be implemented in combination with other program modules. Generally program modules include routines programs components data structures etc. that perform particular tasks and or implement particular abstract data types. For example in memory such as memory there can be software which can instruct a processor such as processor to perform various actions. The processor can be configured to execute the instructions in order to implement the analysis of monitoring an uplink power level detecting the uplink power level is at or above a threshold level and or disable transmission of at least one message as a result of the monitored uplink power level.

Moreover those skilled in the art will understand that the various aspects can be practiced with other computer system configurations including single processor or multiprocessor computer systems mini computing devices mainframe computers as well as personal computers base stations hand held computing devices or user equipment such as a PDA phone watch and so forth microprocessor based or programmable consumer or industrial electronics and the like. The illustrated aspects can also be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network however some if not all aspects of the subject disclosure can be practiced on stand alone computers. In a distributed computing environment program modules can be located in both local and remote memory storage devices.

With reference to a block diagram of a computing system operable to execute the disclosed systems and methods is illustrated in accordance with an embodiment. Computer includes a processing unit a system memory and a system bus . System bus couples system components including but not limited to system memory to processing unit . Processing unit can be any of various available processors. Dual microprocessors and other multiprocessor architectures also can be employed as processing unit .

System bus can be any of several types of bus structure s including a memory bus or a memory controller a peripheral bus or an external bus and or a local bus using any variety of available bus architectures including but not limited to Industrial Standard Architecture ISA Micro Channel Architecture MSA Extended ISA EISA Intelligent Drive Electronics IDE VESA Local Bus VLB Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI Card Bus Universal Serial Bus USB Advanced Graphics Port AGP Personal Computer Memory Card International Association bus PCMCIA Firewire IEEE 1194 and Small Computer Systems Interface SCSI .

System memory includes volatile memory and nonvolatile memory . A basic input output system BIOS containing routines to transfer information between elements within computer such as during start up can be stored in nonvolatile memory . By way of illustration and not limitation nonvolatile memory can include ROM PROM EPROM EEPROM or flash memory. Volatile memory can include RAM which acts as external cache memory. By way of illustration and not limitation RAM is available in many forms such as SRAM dynamic RAM DRAM synchronous DRAM SDRAM double data rate SDRAM DDR SDRAM enhanced SDRAM ESDRAM Synchlink DRAM SLDRAM Rambus direct RAM RDRAM direct Rambus dynamic RAM DRDRAM and Rambus dynamic RAM RDRAM .

Computer also includes removable non removable volatile non volatile computer storage media. In an implementation the non transitory computer readable storage medium can store computer executable instructions that in response to execution cause a system including a processor to perform operations. The operations can include storing a first set of observed time difference measurements received from a first user device and associated with a reported location of the first user device a second set of observed time difference measurements received from a second user device and associated with a reported location of the second user device and a third set of observed time difference measurements received from a third user device and associated with a reported location of the third user device. The operations can also include comparing pairs of sectors identified in the first second and third set of observed time difference measurements. The pairs of sectors have at least one common sector. The operations can also include detecting a faulty radio oscillator for at least one of the sectors of the pairs of sectors based in part on the comparison.

In an aspect the operations can also include receiving primary scrambling codes for time difference measurements included in the first second and third sets of observed time difference measurements and determining pairs of sectors based on primary scrambling codes and the reported locations of the first second and third user devices.

In another aspect the operations can include receiving international mobile subscriber identities of the first second and third user devices and determining mobile types of the first second and third user devices based on the international mobile subscriber identities. Further to this aspect comparing the pairs of sectors comprises using timing measurements from at least two user devices of the first second and third user devices that are of different mobile types.

The operations according to another aspect can include performing outlier detection to determine that the first set of observed time difference measurements are faulty. After determining the first set of observed time difference measurements are faulty the operations can include ignoring the first set of observed time difference measurements in connection with comparing the pairs of sectors.

It is to be noted that describes software that acts as an intermediary between users and computer resources described in suitable operating environment. Such software includes an operating system . Operating system which can be stored on disk storage acts to control and allocate resources of computer system . System applications can take advantage of the management of resources by operating system through program modules and program data stored either in system memory or on disk storage . It is to be understood that the disclosed subject matter can be implemented with various operating systems or combinations of operating systems.

A user can enter commands or information for example through interface component into computer system through input device s . Input devices include but are not limited to a pointing device such as a mouse trackball stylus touch pad keyboard microphone joystick game pad satellite dish scanner TV tuner card digital camera digital video camera web camera and the like. These and other input devices connect to processing unit through system bus through interface port s . Interface port s include for example a serial port a parallel port a game port and a universal serial bus USB . Output device s use some of the same type of ports as input device s .

Thus for example a USB port can be used to provide input to computer and to output information from computer to an output device . Output adapter is provided to illustrate that there are some output devices such as monitors speakers and printers among other output devices which use special adapters. Output adapters include by way of illustration and not limitation video and sound cards that provide means of connection between output device and system bus . It is also noted that other devices and or systems of devices provide both input and output capabilities such as remote computer s .

Computer can operate in a networked environment using logical connections to one or more remote computers such as remote computer s . Remote computer s can be a personal computer a server a router a network PC a workstation a microprocessor based appliance a peer device or other common network node and the like and typically includes many or all of the elements described relative to computer .

For purposes of brevity only one memory storage device is illustrated with remote computer s . Remote computer s is logically connected to computer through a network interface and then physically connected through communication connection . Network interface encompasses wire and or wireless communication networks such as local area networks LAN and wide area networks WAN . LAN technologies include Fiber Distributed Data Interface FDDI Copper Distributed Data Interface CDDI Ethernet Token Ring and the like. WAN technologies include but are not limited to point to point links circuit switching networks like Integrated Services Digital Networks ISDN and variations thereon packet switching networks and Digital Subscriber Lines DSL .

Communication connection s refer s to hardware software employed to connect network interface to system bus . While communication connection is shown for illustrative clarity inside computer it can also be external to computer . The hardware software for connection to network interface can include for example internal and external technologies such as modems including regular telephone grade modems cable modems and DSL modems ISDN adapters and Ethernet cards.

It is to be noted that aspects features or advantages of the aspects described in the subject specification can be exploited in substantially any communication technology. For example 4G technologies Wi Fi WiMAX Enhanced GPRS 3GPP LTE 3GPP2 UMB 3GPP UMTS HSPA HSDPA HSUPA GERAN UTRAN LTE Advanced. Additionally substantially all aspects disclosed herein can be exploited in legacy telecommunication technologies e.g. GSM. In addition mobile as well non mobile networks e.g. Internet data service network such as IPTV can exploit aspect or features described herein.

Various aspects or features described herein can be implemented as a method apparatus or article of manufacture using standard programming and or engineering techniques. In addition various aspects disclosed in the subject specification can also be implemented through program modules stored in a memory and executed by a processor or other combination of hardware and software or hardware and firmware.

Other combinations of hardware and software or hardware and firmware can enable or implement aspects described herein including disclosed method s . The term article of manufacture as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device carrier or media. For example computer readable media can include but are not limited to magnetic storage devices e.g. hard disk floppy disk magnetic strips . . . optical discs e.g. compact disc CD digital versatile disc DVD blu ray disc BD . . . smart cards and flash memory devices e.g. card stick key drive . . . .

Computing devices typically include a variety of media which can include computer readable storage media or communications media which two terms are used herein differently from one another as follows.

Computer readable storage media can be any available storage media that can be accessed by the computer and includes both volatile and nonvolatile media removable and non removable media. By way of example and not limitation computer readable storage media can be implemented in connection with any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions program modules structured data or unstructured data. Computer readable storage media can include but are not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disk DVD or other optical disk storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or other tangible and or non transitory media which can be used to store desired information. Computer readable storage media can be accessed by one or more local or remote computing devices e.g. through access requests queries or other data retrieval protocols for a variety of operations with respect to the information stored by the medium.

Communications media typically embody computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other structured or unstructured data in a data signal such as a modulated data signal e.g. a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery or transport media. The term modulated data signal or signals refers to a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in one or more signals. By way of example and not limitation communication media include wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic RF infrared and other wireless media.

What has been described above includes examples of systems and methods that provide advantages of the one or more aspects. It is of course not possible to describe every conceivable combination of components or methods for purposes of describing the aspects but one of ordinary skill in the art may recognize that many further combinations and permutations of the claimed subject matter are possible. Furthermore to the extent that the terms includes has possesses and the like are used in the detailed description claims appendices and drawings such terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising as comprising is interpreted when employed as a transitional word in a claim.

As used in this application the terms component system and the like are intended to refer to a computer related entity or an entity related to an operational apparatus with one or more specific functionalities wherein the entity can be either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. As an example a component may be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution computer executable instructions a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a server or network controller and the server or network controller can be a component. One or more components may reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers. Also these components can execute from various computer readable media having various data structures stored thereon. The components may communicate via local and or remote processes such as in accordance with a signal having one or more data packets e.g. data from one component interacting with another component in a local system distributed system and or across a network such as the Internet with other systems via the signal . As another example a component can be an apparatus with specific functionality provided by mechanical parts operated by electric or electronic circuitry which is operated by a software or firmware application executed by a processor wherein the processor can be internal or external to the apparatus and executes at least a part of the software or firmware application. As yet another example a component can be an apparatus that provides specific functionality through electronic components without mechanical parts the electronic components can include a processor therein to execute software or firmware that confers at least in part the functionality of the electronic components. As further yet another example interface s can include input output I O components as well as associated processor application or Application Programming Interface API components.

The term set subset or the like as employed herein excludes the empty set e.g. the set with no elements therein . Thus a set subset or the like includes one or more elements or periods for example. As an illustration a set of periods includes one or more periods a set of transmissions includes one or more transmissions a set of resources includes one or more resources a set of messages includes one or more messages and so forth.

In addition the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or. That is unless specified otherwise or clear from context X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is if X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B then X employs A or B is satisfied under any of the foregoing instances. Moreover articles a and an as used in the subject specification and annexed drawings should generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from context to be directed to a singular form.

