---

title: Optical trap using a focused hollow-beam for trapping and holding both absorbing and non-absorbing airborne particles
abstract: Embodiments of the present invention are directed to systems and methods for trapping and holding airborne particles. In the various embodiments, an optical trap is provided which uses a focused hollow-beam for trapping and holding both absorbing and non-absorbing airborne particles. The optical trap comprises: a trapping region where a particle can be present to be trapped; a light source for generating a coherent beam of light; optics for forming a hollow beam having a ring geometry from the coherent beam of light; and a focusing element for focusing the hollow beam to a point in the trapping region. In this arrangement, the particle is trapped at or near the focal point of the focused hollow beam.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09443631&OS=09443631&RS=09443631
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 09443631
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150304
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured used and licensed by or for the U.S. Government without the payment of royalties thereon.

Research underlying this invention was supported by the Defense Threat Reduction Agency DTRA under contract numbers HDTRA1310184 and HDTRA1514122 with U.S. Army Research Laboratory mission funds under Cooperative Agreement Number W911NF 12 2 0019.

Embodiments of the present invention are generally directed to trapping and holding airborne particles and more particularly to optical traps which use a focused hollow beam for trapping and holding both absorbing and non absorbing airborne particles.

Airborne particles pose many problems. The ability to trap airborne particles for inspection and or measurement is important for many applications. Conventional techniques to optically trap airborne particles use either radiative pressure force or photophoretic force. Trapping a particle in air is more difficult than trapping a particle in a liquid or on a substrate since the trap must overcome gravity and air turbulence without help from the higher viscosity of a liquid. Thus very high numerical aperture NA optics typically in excess of 0.9 is required to produce a strong enough gradient force to trap airborne particles. Trapping airborne particles using the photophoretic force may be advantageous in some cases since the photophoretic force can be 4 to 5 orders of magnitude stronger than the gradient force typically used in optical tweezers.

Existing photophoretic force based traps are only capable of trapping absorbing particles while existing laser tweezer systems can only trap non absorbing particles. However many potential applications would benefit from the ability to trap airborne particles regardless of their material type.

Embodiments of the present invention are directed to devices systems and methods for trapping and holding airborne particles. In the various embodiments an optical trap is provided which uses a focused hollow beam for trapping and holding both absorbing and non absorbing airborne particles.

According to embodiments the optical trap comprises a trapping region where a particle can be present to be trapped a light source for generating a coherent beam of light optics for forming a hollow beam having a ring geometry from the coherent beam of light and a focusing element for focusing the hollow beam to a point in the trapping region. In this arrangement the particle is trapped at or near the focal point of the focused hollow beam.

The optics may comprise a pair of axicons spatial light modulators SLM phase and amplitude mask biaxial crystals diffraction pattern aberration of optical components and or an interference pattern of coherent light source using a single or multiple laser beams to produce the hollow beam. The light source may be a laser a super luminescent diode or a super continuum source. In some instances the optical trap may further comprise an iris for controlling the diameter of the coherent beam of light.

The trapping region may be located within a containment cell for instance. Also the optical trap may comprise other optics such as a mirror positioned between the optics and the focusing element for changing the direction of the hollow beam. The focusing element may comprise an aspheric lens an objective or a focusing mirror. It may have a numerical aperture NA less than or equal to 0.95 for example. In accordance with the embodiments the NA of the focusing element should be lower than required for that of a traditional optical trap or laser tweezers.

The optical trap may further include a controller configured to control the trapping and holding of particles. The controller is configured to generate signals to trap one or more airborne particles in the trapping region measure one or more properties of the one or more trapped airborne particles and release the one or more trapped airborne particles.

According to further embodiments a particle detection and measuring system includes the aforementioned optical trap. In this system the optical trap is generally configured to trap and hold only about one particle at any one time. Although the trap could be configured to hold multiple particles if so desired. The particle detection and measuring system may further include one or more of the following a particle detector configured to detect an airborne particle approaching and or within the trapping region at least one source configured to excite emissions of the trapped one or more airborne particles a measurement device to measure at least one property of the trapped particle a particle analyzer configured to determine from the measured property a parameter related to particle shape size refractive index absorption or any combination thereof of the trapped one or more airborne particles and. a particle sorter configured to physically sort and optionally store particles based on their measured properties.

The measurement device may be judiciously configured to measure one or more of imaging Raman spectra Raman emission in one or more wavelength bands laser induced breakdown emission in one or more wavelength bands laser induced breakdown spectra spark induced breakdown emission in one or more wavelength bands spark induced breakdown spectra fluorescence in one or more wavelength bands fluorescence spectra multi photon excited fluorescence thermal emission at one or more wavelengths thermal emission spectra or light scattering over one or more angles light scattering at multiple wavelengths absorption spectra of the particle particle size and shape. In some implementations the particle analyzer is configured to execute an algorithm which identifies or classifies particles into different categories based on their measured properties.

According to additional embodiments there is a method for continuously sampling particles from air using the aforementioned particle detection and measuring system. The method comprises continuously directing air including airborne particles toward a trapping region detecting an airborne particle in the air approaching and or within the trapping region trapping one or more airborne particles in the optical trap measuring a property of the trapped one or more airborne particles and releasing the trapped one or more airborne particles. The method may further include determining from the measured property a parameter related to particle shape size refractive index absorption molecular structures and compositions chemical reactions or any combination thereof of the trapped one or more airborne particles.

A novel optical trapping apparatus and methods for using the same are disclosed. This innovative optical trapping technique utilizes the radiative pressure of light to trap and hold transparent non absorbing airborne particles while the photophoretic force is able to trap absorbing particles in the same optical geometry formed of a single shaped laser beam. The radiative pressure force results from the transport of momentum from photons to a particle. More particularly radiative pressure forces are a combination of a gradient force and a scattering force. If a particle is near the focus of a laser beam the gradient force will pull the particle back toward the high intensity region at the focus providing the restoring force required to trap a particle. On the other hand the scattering force which results from the transfer of momentum from photons scattered off a particle pushes the particle in the direction of light propagation and does not provide the required restoring force. Roughly speaking optical trapping is possible when the gradient force overcomes the scattering force.

By comparison the photophoretic force results from the interaction between a heated particle and the surrounding gas molecules. If a light beam impinges on an absorbing particle some of the light will be absorbed and converted to heat. In particular if a particle is heated asymmetrically e.g. if a strongly absorbing particle is illuminated from one side then gas molecules on the higher temperature side of the particle will also heat up and subsequently collide with the particle at higher velocities imposing a net force pushing the particle toward its cold side. For a strongly absorbing particle this photophoretic force can be 4 to 5 orders of magnitude stronger than the gradient force typically used in optical tweezers.

The innovative optical trap is formed by a single shaped focusing laser beam. In optical traps according to the present invention the focused beam is a hollow beam having a ring or ring like geometry or profile i.e. the center of the beam is removed where the contribution to the incident photon momentum along the optical axis is strongest. This effectively reduces the scattering force along the optical axis such that the gradient force is sufficient to achieve optical trapping at a much lower numerical aperture NA of focusing optics than used by a conventional optical trap such as laser tweezers. The use of a single focus beam enables simple alignment and the use of low NA focusing optics will make the trapping system easily integrate with additional optical characterization tools. This greatly increases the versatility of the optical trap.

Numerical simulations are presented herein to guide the design of the hollow cone in order to enable trapping of various types of particles. This technology has been demonstrated for trapping of both absorbing and transparent particles with either spherical or spatially irregular geometries. Such a general purpose optical trapping scheme could enable on line characterization of arbitrary airborne particles.

Laser generates a laser beam and is expanded into a collimated beam with diameter D see A indicated here as laser beam LB. The particular wavelength of light used is not believed to be critical for the trap although there may be a multitude of reasons for selecting a particular laser. The laser light may be in the ultraviolet UV visible and or infrared IR wavelength region for example. In one exemplary embodiment laser may be an Ar ion laser diode operating at a wavelength of 488 nm in continuous wave CW mode and providing approximately 750 mW of power. In lieu of an actual laser a light source with a high spatial coherence could be used to form the equivalent to laser beam LB having a focal spot with high power such as a super luminescent diode or a super continuum source.

An iris may be used to adjust or tune the diameter of the laser beam LB. The iris may be comprised of multiple blades e.g. 9 or 15 driven by a motor not shown which form an adjustable sized diaphragm opening. The iris is not strictly required for all embodiments. The laser beam could be expanded to the appropriate diameter with the laser and or other optics instead of over expanding and then using the iris as is shown in . A depiction of the cross section of the laser beam LB along the direction of propagation is shown in . In one exemplary embodiment the laser beam before the iris had a diameter of approximately 2 cm and after the iris it was reduced the size to about 1 cm or less. This may depend on the optics used.

Optics take the laser beam LB and form a hollow beam HB profile. Optics may include a set of one or more typical optical elements used for shaping light. The hollow beam HB is shaped like a ring that is an annular region with a central opening or void. Such a ring geometry or profile can be generated by holography spatial light modulators SLM phase and amplitude mask biaxial crystals diffraction pattern aberration of optical components or interference pattern of coherent light source using a single or multiple laser beams as known in the art. Here optics are shown as configured as a pair of axicon lenses .

The inner diameter of the hollow beam HB is controlled with the tunable iris before passing through the optics to form a collimated hollow beam at the back focal plane of the lens . The inner diameter of the hollow beam is adjusted to form an inner NA of the conically focusing region to form a strong enough stable trapping conditions. As the iris is closed the ring width becomes narrower. Conversely when the iris is open the ring width becomes wider. A depiction of the cross section hollow beam HB along the direction of propagation is shown in . The light beams are indicated in grey. The lighter grey rays depicted the variable inner diameter of the hollow beam HB.

The outer diameter of the hollow beam HB may be controlled by relative focal length of the optics e.g. the pair of axicons which act as a beam expander in addition to forming the ring shape of the hollow beam HB. The outer beam diameter should be expanded to match the diameter of the focusing lens to gain the highest outer NA The focusing lens may be include the aspheric lens as shown or alternatively or additionally an microscopic objective or a reflective focusing mirror parabolic or spherical reflector . In general the hollow beam HB is expanded to match the diameter of focusing optics lens objective or mirror before being focused. For a lens with outer diameter of 24 mm and focal length of 18 NA outer 0.55 the inner diameter could be about 21 mm corresponding to NA inner 0.5 for example.

Once the inner and outer diameters of the hollow beam HB have been set the trap can be used for most particles without changing these parameters. The hollow beam would generally stay the same and be turned on to hold a particle in place and then the laser beam could be turned off or blocked altogether e.g. with a shutter to release a particle.

After passing the optics the hollow beam HB is directed to the back focal plane of the optical focusing element such as lens as shown. The hollow beam HB then passes through the lens which focuses it into a trapping region . A depiction of the cross section of the focused hollow beam FB along the direction of propagation is shown in . In some embodiments the trapping region may be a glass containment cell. This arrangement helps to minimize air turbulence near the trapping position. The focal point FP is formed within the trapping region .

In some embodiments additional optics can be interposed along the beam path. As shown in a mirror is provided which changes the directed to the hollow beam HB. This enables a more compact system and or the direction of the hollow beam HB to be changed. It is believed that the trap will work most efficiently if the light is propagating upward against gravity in the focal region. It should also work with the light travelling with gravity i.e. aimed down . If the cone is formed sideways the photophoretic trapping may not be as efficient.

The lens forms a hollow conical focus within the trapping region where airborne particles are present. The lens may be an aspheric lens for instance. It may be formed of glass polycarbonate or other materials having a refractive index of about 1.3 3.9 as an example. The lens may has a numerical aperture NA preferably less than or equal to 0.95. For instance it could be 0.55 0.95. In one particular embodiment it is approximately 0.55. However the optical focusing element could alternatively be a microscopic objective or a reflective focusing mirror parabolic or spherical reflector instead of lens in other embodiments.

Particles in the trapping region can be trapped and held by the focused beam FB having the hollow or ring geometry. A trapped particle is indicated at . The size of the particles may vary depending on the environment and or desired application s . Airborne particles ranging from 0.6 to 100 micrometers may be quite common in some environments. Typical sizes of a single or aggregates of a group of bacteria and bacterial spores may range from 0.6 to 10 m. Typical sizes of anthrax spores range from 1.1 to 1.7 m in length and 0.8 to 0.9 m in diameter. Typical sizes of fungal spores may range 2 to 20 m in diameter. Pollens typically can be 5 to 100 m in diameter. These exemplary particles as well as other larger or smaller in diameters should be able to be held with the trap . Typically it is envisioned that the optical trap will trap and hold only about one particle at any one time. Although simultaneous trapping of multiple particles can be realized by forming multiple conically focusing regions using holography SLM or interference pattern for instance.

While a particle is trapped and held in the optical trap one or more properties of that trapped particle may be measured or otherwise made. One or more measuring devices may be positioned proximate to the trapping region for this purpose. There may be a window or opening in the trapping region to enable measurement of trapping particles to be made. The window may be made of glass or other light transparent material. In the window is shown as being opposed to the lens . However this is merely illustrative and it will be appreciated that it may be placed at other locations relative to the trapping region . Also there may be multiple windows for multiple measurements apparatus at any desired locations such as surrounding the trapping region also.

The measuring device may be a camera or other measurement device that is configured to inspect or measure at least one property of the trapped particle while it is held in the optical trap . These measurements may include for example Raman fluorescence thermal emission laser induced breakdown spectroscopy LIBS spark induced breakdown spectroscopy SIBS elastic scattering over one a few or many angles or wavelengths. The Raman fluorescence thermal emission LIBS and SIBS may each be measured at one or more emission bands including the case of sufficient bands to be considered a spectrum. The foregoing list is not exhaustive and other measurement techniques may be used. Devices for performing such measurements are generally known and will not be described in greater detail.

In there is a plot showing the optical trapping force along the optical axis experienced by a particle with a diameter of 10 and refractive index of 1.5 and using a lens of NA 0.6 for different optical trapping means. Data for a full lens using ordinary focused lens as in a conventional optical tweezers and ring geometry using the conical ring shaped focused hollow beam as in the optical trap of the present invention are detailed. The trapping force is expressed in terms of the dimensionless quantity Qwhich is related to the actual force acting on the particle as F QPn c where P is the incident laser power n is the refractive index of the particle and c is the speed of light. For a discussion of the forces acting on absorbing particles additional reference is made to Yong Le Pan et al. Trapping of individual airborne absorbing particles using a counterflow nozzle and photophoretic trap for continuous sampling and analysis Applied Physics Letters 104 113507 2014 herein incorporated by reference. .

The dotted line shows the force experienced using the full lens as in a conventional single beam optical trap as laser tweezers i.e. without the pair of axicons shown in and the solid line shows the force experienced using the ring illumination geometry of the optical trap shown in . In both cases the outer NA is set to 0.6 and for the ring geometry the inner NA is set to 0.55. The trapping force is presented as a function of position along the optical axis z where the focus is formed at z 0. In order to achieve optical trapping a negative restoring force is required. As shown in a negative force is achieved using the ring geometry but not using the full lens when the outer NA is set to 0.6. This can be understood as a trade off between the scattering force and the gradient force. In a single beam geometry using the full lens a much higher NA is required to obtain a gradient force which is stronger than the scattering force. For this reason single beam optical trapping geometries typically have to use a very high NA. In the ring geometry the center of the beam is removed from where the contribution to the incident photon momentum along the optical axis is strongest. This effectively reduces the scattering force along the optical axis such that the gradient force is sufficient to achieve optical trapping at a much lower outer NA.

Optical trapping is typically only possible if the force along the axial z direction becomes negative at some position providing the restoring force required to hold a particle in place. Due to the relatively high index of the particle the standard laser tweezers approach full lens is not able to trap the particle whereas the ring geometry provides a strong restoring force sufficient to trap the particle. The minimum trapping force min Q is shown using a full lens or the ring geometry as a function of the relative refractive index of the particle and the outer NA. For the ring geometry the inner NA is set at NA NA 0.05. The white contour lines correspond to Q 0 and optical trapping is possible when the minimum of Qis negative the Trapping regime . Using the ring geometry optical trapping is possible using a much lower outer NA enabling trapping of particles with an index of approximately 1.5 considered experimentally using an outer NA of only 0.55.

Based on the numerical simulations presented the plots in the iris is adjusted to provide the optimal inner NA of approximately 0.5 based on the 0.55 outer NA of the aspheric lens. Optical trapping of four classes of airborne particles are experimentally demonstrated absorbing and non absorbing particles as well as spherical and spatially irregular particles. For this comparison glass beads having a diameter of 3 9 m were used as an example of a spherical non absorbing particle 1 10 m diameter albumin particles as an example of a non absorbing spatially irregular particle 6 m diameter fluorescent polymer spheres as an example of a spherical absorbing particle and 6.2 9.8 m diameter Johnson smut grass spores as an example of a spatially irregular absorbing particle. As further shown in each particle type could be trapped and held stably in place for minutes to hours.

Embodiments of the innovative optical trap may be used for various applications. For example it may be used in a laboratory for in vitro inspection and or measurement of trapping particles. Or it may be incorporated into other airborne handing systems.

Once inside the system particles can be trapped and held using the optical particle trap for inspection and or measurements. The system includes an airflow system configured to draw one or more airborne particles into a measurement volume . Inside the sampling volume there is the trapping region . Particles within this trapping region can be trapped and held for measuring as explained later. The trapping region may be defined by a glass containment cell.

The optical trap is located within a sampling volume of the system . For instance in one embodiment the sampling volume and the trapping region may be substantially the same size and overlap in a location within the system. In other embodiments the trapping region could be made relatively large and the sampling volume could be made small and the air could be directed toward the optical trap . That arrangement may increase the fraction of particles drawn into the device that are caught in the trap which can be beneficial for situations where the particles have been pre selected in some way or are expensive or hard to obtain.

Other measurements of properties such as temperature humidity density etc. of the air drawn into the sampling volume and or of airborne particles drawn into the sampling volume and or of the flow rate of the air drawn into the sampling volume may be measured. Additional measurement s of particles not requiring trapping individual particles may also be measured in the sampling volume . Other configurations of the sampling volume are also possible.

Particles may be suspended in a gaseous medium air typically atmospheric air or some other gas. In various implementations and uses the particles may include e.g. solid liquid gel and or mixtures of these dispersed in a gas which may be consistent with the usual and customary definitions of aerosol particles. The system may be configured so that all the particles drawn into the system pass through the trapping region or it may be configured so that only a fraction of the particles are drawn through the trapping region . While a particle is held in the trapping region of the optical trap airflow may continue substantially unabated through the trap around the trap or some combination thereof.

The airflow system creates a flow of air . The incoming airflow to the system flows into an inlet and then to the sampling volume . The outgoing airflow from the system flows via an outlet to the ambient environment. A filter and or grating not shown may be provided at the inlet if desired to prevent particles larger than a predetermined size from entering the system. Passage may provide fluid connection for airflow through the system . A fluid mover may be provided which creates sufficient force e.g. negative pressure to move the airflow into and through the system . For example the fluid mover may be a pump a fan a compressor a blower a corona generated ion wind etc. To avoid violent or turbulent flow the fluid mover may be operated to ensure the flow rate of airflow is laminar with a steady flow rate. To avoid large drag forces on particles the airflow rates will typically be less than 1 m s and may be less than 1 cm s. Lower airflow and particle velocities allow particles to be trapped with lower requirements for trapping laser power for a given trap design. However when the airflow rates are decreased in order to reduce the requirements for trapping such as the trapping laser intensity the sampling rate tends to decrease. While the fluid mover is illustrated near the outlet of the system as it is a preferred embodiment because the particles do not need to pass through any fluid mover before they are measured. But it will be appreciated that the fluid mover can be located at another location in the airflow such as for example near inlet

Inside the sampling volume air and particles may pass through an optional particle concentrator which increases the concentration or density of the particles in the airflow . The particle concentrator may be a so called air to air concentrator for instance for specifically processing particles in a gaseous medium.

A particle detector is configured to detect a particle or particles approaching and or within the sample volume . In one embodiment the particle detector may include one or more trigger beams. When a particle scatters light from the beam or beams and this light is detected by one or more photodetectors the signals from the photodetector or photodetectors indicate the presence of a particle either approaching and or within the trapping region depending upon the precise alignment of the trigger. As shown the particle detector is positioned somewhere upstream of the trapping region . But in other embodiments trigger beams of the particle detector could overlap with the sampling volume and or the trapping region . For example the particle detector may be comprised of two different wavelength crossed beam diode lasers with corresponding photodetectors each of said photodetectors including an optical filter that passes the wavelength of the diode laser it detects and blocks the light from the other diode laser and light at any other wavelengths that would interfere. One crossed diode trigger laser system which may be used as a particle detector is described for example in U.S. Pat. No. 6 947 134 herein incorporated by reference. Of course other trigger beam systems and devices might also be used for detection a particle. For detection of a particle within not approaching the trapping region the particle detector could at least partially overlap the trapping region in the schematic drawing. Detector also can be used to determine particle speed and size as an example.

The optical trap generates light forces which trap an airborne particle and holds it. The light forces may be generated by the laser are shaped by the iris the optics and the lens . The window enables inspection and or measurement into the trapping region . No mirror is shown here but the optional mirror could be positioned in the beam path as shown in in some embodiments.

The optical trap may operate as follows 1 the trapping laser is gated off or turned off or modulated to a relatively low intensity or blocked for a short time e.g. 1 ms to let any trapped particle typically as soon as the measurement of the trapped particle is completed out of the trapping region and to let new particles into the trapping region 2 the trapping laser is gated on or turned on or modulated to be at a higher intensity to trap any particle that is in the trapping region . After completion of the measurement s the process may be repeated and in a typical embodiment is repeated continuously as soon as a particle is trapped and its desired properties have been measured. This approach may provide a less expensive system by eliminating the separate trigger lasers and their associated photodetectors filters lenses and holders for this subsystem. The laser can also remain on at all times to trap one or a few representative particles for study and measurement similar to the operating mode used in most conventional laser tweezer systems.

Optical forces generated by the optical trap will tend to urge the particle toward a focal point of the focused beam in the trapping region of the optical trap thus the volume in which the particle is held during measurement of it optical properties is typically much smaller than the trapping region . Ideally the trapping region is sized and configured to trap and hold one individual particle at a time from the airflow . It is noted that this is the expected performance of the optical trap .

However there may be circumstances e.g. relatively high concentrations of particles in the inlet air in which more than one particle might be trapped and held. This is a result of the typical substantially random distribution of particles in air. But the probability of trapping and holding two or more particles e.g. greater than 0.5 micrometer at once is likely to be very low e.g. less than 1 of the time if the average concentration of particles in air is low enough that only one particle is in the trapping region at any time. For instance the particle concentration could be diluted by combining the inlet air with clean air without any concentrator at low inlet flow rate or even by enclosing the inlet airflow within a clean air sheath. In any event the optical trap can be configured to trap and hold about one particle for measurement s thereof i.e. where the vast majority of the measurements are of a single individual particle and only some small fraction of the measurements are of two or more particles with sizes greater than some minimum diameter e.g. 0.6 micrometer .

For some applications embodiments that measure average spectra for multiple particles may be adequate and in fact desired for example because the measurements could be made more quickly. For example in monitoring the smoke particles from a fire or the exhaust from an engine trapping many particles at once can provide a way to rapidly provide the average spectra of the particles which may be desirable because for example such particles may change rapidly as the engine or fire parameters vary.

The trapping laser is actuated i.e. turned on or unblocked or gated on or modulated to a higher intensity for example at an appropriate time to trap a particle. Various methods may be used to control the laser beam LB that generates the optical trap . If the trapping laser is a diode laser that can be controlled by varying its drive current then the beam amplitude and trap can be controlled by varying the drive current. And if the laser is one where the amplitude cannot be directly controlled sufficiently rapidly using fast electronics then other modulators or shutters could be used. For example a separate blocking or modulating element not shown may be provided in various embodiments. This blocking or modulating element may be configured to be actuated so as to block the laser beam from reaching the trapping region . The blocking element could include for instance an acousto optic modulator AOM electro optic modulator EOM a motor driven mechanical shutter or a piezoelectric driven shutter.

While a particle is trapped and held in the optical trap one or more properties of that trapped particle may be measured or otherwise made. A measurement device thus is configured to measure at least one property of the trapped particle while it is held in the optical particle trap . These measurements may include for example Raman fluorescence thermal emission laser induced breakdown spectroscopy LIBS spark induced breakdown spectroscopy SIBS image particle morphology elastic scattering over one a few or many angles or wavelengths. The Raman fluorescence thermal emission LIBS and SIBS may each be measured at one or more emission bands including the case of sufficient bands to be considered a spectrum. The foregoing list is not exhaustive and other measurement techniques may be used. Devices for performing such measurements are generally known and will not be described in greater detail.

In one or more embodiments Raman spectra or Raman emission in one to several bands of a trapped particle may be measured. Raman spectra provide information on the vibrational and rotational energy levels of molecules. These spectra can serve as fingerprints for various pure materials such as chemical warfare CW agent droplets and may serve as fingerprints for some complex particles such as biological warfare BW aerosols prepared in certain ways or certain species of fungal spores etc. For these more complex particles such as those made from bacteria the spectra tend to become more difficult to differentiate from spectra of similar bacteria grown under various conditions. More particularly Raman spectral measurements may include for example Raman scattering Raman spectroscopy Resonance Raman spectroscopy Coherent anti stokes Raman scattering CARS and surface enhanced Raman scattering SERS which could be measured for example if the particles are combined with a droplet containing colloidal silver or gold nanoparticles before measurement .

Raman spectra may provide more information regarding the chemical and or biochemical composition of individual airborne particles than can be obtained using ultraviolet laser induced fluorescence UV LIF even when the UV LIF is combined with elastic scattering. According to one embodiment the system may measure Raman spectra of particles at rates of 10 s per minute to a few per second depending upon the particle sizes absorption coefficients Raman cross sections and concentrations of particles in air etc. In general Raman emission is generated when excitation electromagnetic energy light interacts with the molecules in a material. This excitation light generates a spectrum of light that has a different e.g. typically longer wavelength than the wavelength of the excitation light. The Raman emission spectra are usually characteristic of the material and generally exhibit peaks at wavelengths which depend upon the excitation wavelength and the frequencies of vibration and rotation of the molecules in the material.

At least one detector may be included in the measurement device for particle measurements. Typically in operation only a fraction of the particles entering the system may be measured although such operation is not limiting . The detector can vary depending on which property of the trapped particle is to be measured. General detectors and or specific detectors may be used for instance. In some embodiments the detector may include a spectrograph and the sensors.

Depending on the measurement desired an excitation source may be required generate energy which can produce emissions and or another phenomenon by the trapped particle . In some embodiments the same laser that is used to trap the particle may also be used to generate the excitation energy which causes the trapped particle to generate the emissions and or another phenomenon which is to be detected by the detector . For example a portion of the beam of laser may be split off from the rest of the beam e.g. with a mirror beamsplitter and or other optics manipulated and directed via optics to the trapped particle .

In other embodiments increased flexibility in trapping and measuring can be obtained by using one or more separate excitation sources . These sources such as a laser may be provided in the measuring device that are configured to excite emissions of the trapped particle. As such the trapping laser need not be used in the measuring process. The excitation sources may be operated at a different wavelength and or other parameters than the trapping laser . For example in some embodiments the excitation sources may be focused tightly or weakly depending on the application or mode of operation.

Collection optics may further be included for manipulating emission and or phenomenon to be measured by detector . These optics generally include some signal collection optics such as a lens an objective an elliptical mirror and a spherical mirror and can use the same optics that form the trap. As an example of the elliptical mirror the aerosol particle will be trapped at one of the focal points of the elliptical mirror which has been positioned to coincide with the center of the spherical mirror. Therefore light that reaches the spherical mirror from the particle is reflected back to the center of the mirror and towards the elliptical mirror while light that reaches the elliptical mirror either directly from the particle or reflected from the spherical mirror is reflected to the second focal point of the elliptical mirror. This second focal point overlaps with the entrance of the spectrometer. This configuration enables collection of a large solid angle e.g. greater than 2 or even 3 sr of the Raman spectral emission from single particles and it focuses the emission into a small angle to match the f number of the Raman spectrometer.

A particle analyzer is configured to analyze the measurement data. More particularly the analyzer may rapidly identify determine classify characterize and or sort particles according to their measured properties. In some embodiments it may determine from at least one measured property a parameter related to the trapped particle . This may include determining from the measurements one or more parameters related to particle shape size refractive index absorption Raman cross section or any combination thereof of the trapped particle for example. Parameters may be determined or otherwise computed from measured data. For instance extracting the size shape and refractive index of a particle from angular scattering measurements requires solving an inverse problem or at least finding an approximation to that solution.

The particle analyzer may be configured to monitor measurement data for potentially harmful particles such as bacteria bacterial spores pollens fungal spores protein allergens smoke particles and pollutants such as pollutant particles that contain polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons or reactive oxygenated species. A database not shown of known threats may be searched and or analyzed with respect to measurement data for example. Also past measurements may be stored for further analysis and or future searching.

In some instances the particle analyzer may be used to count and classify particles which can be used to determine or estimate exposures of persons to various airborne chemicals and pollutants such as for example smoke from fires or burn pits or to diesel exhaust. The particle analyzer may be a computer or microprocessor for instance which is configured to execute an algorithm that is used to identify and or classify particles based on their measured properties preferably in real time. The different categories can correspond to one or more different pollens bacteria bacterial spores allergens or any other classification scheme. In some embodiments the near real time algorithm used to classify particles into categories will be similar to those described in papers by R. G. Pinnick et al Fluorescence spectra of atmospheric aerosol at Adelphi Md. USA measurement and classification of single particles containing organic carbon Atmos. Environ. 38 657 1672 2004 and by Y. L. Pan et al Single particle laser induced fluorescence spectra of biological and other organic carbon aerosols in the atmosphere measurements at New Haven Conn. and Las Cruces N. Mex. J. Geophys. Res. 112 D24S19 1 15 2007 each of which is herein incorporated by reference. In other embodiments the near real time algorithm used to sort particles into categories may be the one described by Y. L. Pan et al Fluorescence spectra of atmospheric aerosol particles measured using one or two excitation wavelengths Comparison of classification schemes employing different emission and scattering results Optics Express 18 12 12436 12457 2010 herein incorporated by reference. Of course for the case of Raman spectra the algorithms may be the same or similar but the actual spectral shapes for the different particle categories are very different and generally will have higher information content. Again for the case of thermal emission the algorithms may be the same as or similar to those described above but the actual spectral shapes and spectral features that are used in the algorithms are different.

Additionally the particle analyzer may be coupled to a warning detector that is configured to provide a warning when particles consistent with expected or known biological or chemical agents are detected. This may be instrumental for instance in the case of an attack with aerosolized biowarfare or chemical warfare agents by indicating a potential attack so that personnel can begin to take protective actions. The warning detector may include an audible alarm or siren flashing strobe light display screen etc. which can provide audible and or visual warnings. In some instances written instructions may be provided by the display screen or printer for the aid of personnel. If the system is connected to a network e.g. phone internet intranet etc. it may generate messages to contact first responders or other emergency personnel command personnel and or other persons as desired.

A particle sorter can physically sort and optionally store particles based on their measured properties. One particle sorting system which may be used with embodiments of the present invention is disclosed for example in U.S. Pat. No. 7 410 063 herein incorporated by reference. In other embodiments once it is determined that a trapped particle should be collected and stored for further analysis the air surrounding the particle is drawn though a filter e.g. glass fiber or filter with small holes e.g. a nucleopore or Millipore filter by opening a valve connected to a vacuum or by turning on an air pump and then catching the particle on the filter as the air it is entrained in is drawn through the filter.

A controller is provided which is configured to the various control operations of the system preferably in a fully automated manner so that the system can trap a particle from air hold it for as long as needed to measure its Raman spectrum or other properties as appropriate then release the particle once the measurement s are completed and then continuously repeat these steps trap measure release . The controller may be a computer or microprocessor for instance that includes computer executable code which when executed is configured to implement methods for continuously sampling particles from air.

The controller may be configured to generate and send signals to the various elements described herein for instance causing the elements to function or be otherwise actuated deactivated upon command. This may include generating signals to trap a particle in the sampling volume and hold the trapped particle measure a property of the trapped particle and release the trapped particle. The aforementioned sequence may be repeated as many times as desired.

Operation of the system may vary depending on the particle detector as discussed above. For example in one embodiment the controller may generate a signal to actuate the optical trap to trap the particle in the sampling volume based on a detection signal received from the particle detector . Or in another embodiment the controller may generate a signal to cause the measuring device to measure a property of a trapped particle already trapped in the optical trap based on a detection signal received from the particle detector .

Once a particle is trapped by the optical trap depending on the desired operation controller may ensure that it is held for sufficient time in order to a make one or more measurements of the same particle using different techniques b make improved measurements because the particle location can be better defined and c make measurements of dynamic processes in a trapped particle by repeatedly measuring the spectrum or other parameter to see how it changes with time. In one embodiment the fluorescence spectra can be measured with higher resolution and the angular optical scattering can be measured with far better knowledge of the position of the particle and of the angles of the measured scattering intensities. The resulting reduction in uncertainties in the measurements makes the inverse problem to extract parameters relating to the shape size or chemical composition far more tractable. Other sampling methodologies may also be executed and the aforementioned ones should not be thought of as exhaustive.

The foregoing description for purpose of explanation has been described with reference to specific embodiments. However the illustrative discussions above are not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise forms disclosed. Many modifications and variations are possible in view of the above teachings. The embodiments were chosen and described in order to best explain the principles of the present disclosure and its practical applications and to describe the actual partial implementation in the laboratory of the system which was assembled using a combination of existing equipment and equipment that could be readily obtained by the inventors to thereby enable others skilled in the art to best utilize the invention and various embodiments with various modifications as may be suited to the particular use contemplated.

While the foregoing is directed to embodiments of the present invention other and further embodiments of the invention may be devised without departing from the basic scope thereof and the scope thereof is determined by the claims that follow.

