---

title: User experience enhancements for controlling a group communication
abstract: User experience enhancements for conducting group communication sessions may include displaying visual feedback on a display to indicate a state of a group communication session. Embodiments may include displaying a quick contact group communication shortcut icon on a home screen of a wireless communication device display, displaying a group communication button in association with the quick contact group communication shortcut icon on the home screen of the display, detecting a selection of the group communication button by a user on a user interface, and initiating a group communication session with a device of a contact associated with the quick contact group communication shortcut icon.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09288639&OS=09288639&RS=09288639
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 09288639
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150806
---
This application is a divisional application of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 661 371 filed Oct. 26 2012 which claims the benefit of priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 554 876 filed Nov. 2 2011 the entire contents of both of which are hereby incorporated by reference for all purposes.

This application is also related to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 661 378 entitled User Experience Enhancements for Limiting Calls in a Group Communication filed Oct. 26 2012.

The present invention generally relates to wireless telecommunication systems. More particularly the present invention relates to methods and devices which enable group communication such as Push To Talk PTT communication without requiring dedicated PTT hardware.

In wireless telecommunication devices such as cellular phones PDAs mini laptops and advanced pagers the devices typically communicate over long distances by bridging telephone calls through existing cellular telephone networks and passing data packets across the network. These wireless communication devices often have data processing and computing capabilities and can accordingly send and receive voice and other types of data across the telephone network.

There exists a wireless telecommunication service that provides a quick one to one or one to many communication that is generically referred to as Push To Talk PTT capability. The specific PTT group of recipient devices for the communicating wireless communication device is commonly set up by the carrier. A PTT communication connection is typically initiated by a single hardware button push on the wireless communication device that activates a half duplex link between the speaker and each member device of the group and once the button is released the device can receive incoming PTT transmissions. Existing PTT systems have advantages over traditional cellular systems because they have faster call setup times e.g. setup times ideally in the range of 1 second as opposed to cellular voice channels that can take more than 5 seconds to establish. In some arrangements the PTT speaker will have the floor where no other group member can speak while the speaker is speaking. Once the speaker releases the PTT button any other individual member of the group can engage his or her PTT button and he or she will have the floor. Generally speaking the PTT system uses standard voice over Internet protocol VoIP technologies. Voice information is sent in digital form over IP based data networks. In PTT scenarios instead of using the standard cellular infrastructure a call is formed by combining separate point to point connections between each IP endpoint in the network. Initiating the PTT system generates a call to the target device. The call originator s voice can be sent through the carrier s network to the target handset.

A drawback to existing PTT services is that they typically require devices with dedicated PTT hardware components such as a hardware PTT button meaning that these services are generally not available for the majority of mobile devices in use today.

The various embodiments include methods for managing a group communication session on a wireless communication device including displaying a quick contact group communication shortcut icon on a home screen of a wireless communication device display displaying a group communication button in association with the the quick contact group communication shortcut icon on the home screen of the display detecting a selection of the group communication button by a user on a user interface and initiating a group communication with a device of a contact associated with the quick contact group communication shortcut icon. Further embodiments may include displaying a locking mechanism in association with the quick contact group communication shortcut icon.

Various embodiments include wireless communication devices including processors configured to perform operations of the embodiment methods disclosed herein. Various embodiments also include wireless communication devices including means for performing functions of the embodiment methods disclosed herein. Various embodiments also include non transitory processor readable storage media having stored thereon processor executable instructions configured to cause a processor to perform operations of the embodiment methods disclosed herein.

The various embodiments will be described in detail with reference to the accompanying drawings. Wherever possible the same reference numbers will be used throughout the drawings to refer to the same or like parts. References made to particular examples and implementations are for illustrative purposes and are not intended to limit the scope of the invention or the claims.

The word exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any implementation described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other implementations.

The terms mobile device mobile computing device and wireless communication device are used interchangeably herein to refer to any one or all of cellular telephones smartphones personal or mobile multi media players personal data assistants PDA s laptop computers tablet computers smartbooks palm top computers wireless electronic mail receivers multimedia Internet enabled cellular telephones wireless gaming controllers and similar personal electronic devices which include a programmable processor and memory and may include software and or hardware to enable group communication such as push to talk PTT functionality.

In overview various embodiments provide enhanced group communication such as Push To Talk PTT functionality in a wireless communication device using software and native device hardware such as a touchscreen display. The various embodiments may be implemented on a wide range of devices including most Internet enabled mobile phones and other wireless communication devices and do not require dedicated hardware such as a PTT button to provide group communication functionality.

Previously push to talk services required dedicated hardware such as a PTT button for the user to take advantage of the service. The various embodiments provide a user experience that combines many of the advantages of a conventional hardware based PTT service with a number of enhanced features that are made possible through the use of a group communication service that is primarily implemented through software.

Various embodiments are directed to a novel group communication interface that can provide enhanced functionality as compared to conventional hardware implemented PTT services. Because the present embodiments are primarily implemented in software the user no longer needs to push a physical button to talk. In various embodiments the user interface can allow the user to lock control of the floor in a hands free mode which allows the user to more easily multitask and to utilize the device speakerphone and or earpiece mode in a more natural way. Additional functionality can also be added such as the ability to lock control of the floor for media content as well as the ability to at least temporarily modify the criteria for floor control and mediation which may be useful when the user desires priority access of the floor for a limited time. The additional functionality may also include the ability to lock out another device in a communication group from receiving outgoing communications from the user s device as well as the ability to block the user s device from receiving group communications from another user. Some or all of this added functionality may be provided via a target based sliding lock which may be implemented in a touchscreen user interface display.

Various embodiments additionally enable the user to create a quick contact shortcut on their home screen or as a device widget. Selecting this shortcut brings up a modified PTT button on the screen which may also include the hands free lock so that the user effectively has the one click PTT experience that is advantageous in conventional hardware implemented PTT but on the wider range of devices that may provide a software implemented group communication service. The quick contact shortcut avoids the issue of the user having to find launch and navigate through a group communication application program in order to speak to their contact.

Various embodiments may implement a more visual experience than is previously employed and may utilize visual feedback cues to the user which may augment or replace the existing audio cues for floor control and mediation. The visual feedback cues may be provided via graphical elements and colors on the display screen of the wireless device. In various embodiments the feedback cues may show the state of a group communication session and may indicate for example control of the floor for group communication. In various embodiments the display screen may display visual features which tell the user when the floor is open when the floor is requested by user s device when the floor controlled by user s device or by a different device. In some embodiments the display screen may also display visual representations of the members of the group in the group communication and may further display the participation state s of each member of the group. For example the device may display the members of the group who are currently participating in the group communication session as well as the members of the group who are not participating in the group communication session. In various embodiments the device may additionally display reasons why the non participating members are not participating in the communication. These enhanced features may be implemented in software which runs on the user s wireless device and may also be implemented in part in a server.

Referring now to it illustrates an example wireless telecommunication device that can be a wireless communication device that includes software and or hardware to provide a group communication e.g. Push To Talk PTT function that opens the direct communication to a target device e.g. an endpoint associated with an IP address. In various embodiments the wireless communication device provides group communication functionality using only software and existing device hardware e.g. a conventional user interface display such as a keypad or touchscreen interface . The embodiment device of is shown having a touchscreen interface display . In various embodiments no dedicated PTT hardware such as a PTT button or dedicated PTT circuitry is required to provide the PTT functionality.

In various embodiments the wireless communication device may include a computer platform that can handle voice and data packets execute software applications and transmit information across a wireless network. The computer platform includes among other components a processor such as an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or a RISC processor such as those that implement the ARM architecture. The processor is typically installed at the time of manufacture of the wireless communication device and is not normally upgradeable. The processor or other processor executes an application programming interface API layer which includes the resident application environment and may include the operating system loaded on the processor . The resident application environment interfaces with any resident programs in the memory e.g. a computer readable storage medium of the wireless communication device .

As shown here the wireless communication device may be a wireless communication telephone with a graphics display but may also be any wireless device with a computer platform as known in the art such as a personal digital assistant PDA a pager with a graphics display or even a separate computer platform that has a wireless communication portal and may otherwise have a wired connection to a network or the Internet. Further the memory may be comprised of read only or random access memory RAM and ROM EPROM EEPROM flash cards or any memory common to computer platforms. The computer platform may also include a local database for storage of software applications not actively used in memory . The local database is typically comprised of one or more flash memory cells but may be any secondary or tertiary storage device as known in the art such as magnetic media EPROM EEPROM optical media tape or soft or hard disk. The graphics display may present not only information about the ongoing group call but also the information about the data package in order to generate a preview as is more fully described herein.

The computer platform may also include a direct communication interface that is configured to open a direct communication channel. The direct communication interface may also be part of the standard communication interface for the wireless communication device which ordinarily carries the voice and data transmitted to and from the wireless communication device . The direct communication interface typically is comprised of hardware as is known in the art.

In this example the wireless communication operating system may include a PTT client that is configured to offer access to PTT services through an external interface here shown at a PTT aware UI . The PTT client may include all the functions required to enable wireless communication operating system applications such as the media client . In an embodiment the PTT client may maintain access to PTT services respond to communication requests process all PTT aware wireless communication operating system applications requests for PTT services process all outgoing PTT requests collect and package vocoder packets for originating PTT talk spurts and parses packets of vocoder data for terminated PTT talk spurts.

In various embodiments the computer platform in the wireless communication device environment may include a media client which may be a wireless communication operating system based application that extends PTT services for access to media types other than the traditional half duplex voice communications VoIP PTT media . The media client may provide access to media services through an external interface such as a media aware API that is an application that may be developed entirely as a wireless communication operating system based application or used in combination with an AMSS interface. The media client may service requests from the user and inform the user of the result of any group directed media request. The media client may additionally be configured to handle incoming notifications that indicate there is data package to download from a media server of and described in more detail below. For example the media client may be configured in one embodiment to download data packages immediately or in other embodiments the media client may be configured to download the data package at a predetermined time period e.g. at 10 00 pm daily or it may be configured to prompt the user via the PTT UI to determine whether and or when to download the file. Other applications which may be push to talk or other applications than can receive and transmit data across the group communication channel may also be resident on the platform.

In some embodiments the software to enable PTT functionality in the wireless communication device may be pre installed in the device during device manufacture. In other embodiments at least a portion of the software providing PTT functionality may be downloaded to the device by the end user. In some embodiments the PTT software may be a downloadable application e.g. a mobile app .

In an embodiment the wireless telecommunication device may send a flag to at least the communications server which is present on a server side LAN across the wireless network . The flag in this example may be used by the server to determine that the wireless device is present i.e. is accessible on the wireless network . The communication server may share this information with a set of target wireless telecommunication devices designated by the first wireless telecommunication device or it may also share this with other computer devices resident on the server side LAN or accessible across the wireless network . The communication server may have an attached or accessible database to store the group identification data for the wireless devices. In various embodiments a media server which may additionally include circuitry for a file management server may be present on the server side LAN . It should be appreciated that the number of computer components resident on server side LAN or across the wireless network or Internet generally are not limited. Furthermore some or all of the functions of the several server side components described herein such as communications server database and media server may be combined in a single device.

In various embodiments the communications server which may also be referred to as a group communications server may establish point to point IP PTT channels between devices in the group . A PTT channel may be established through a half duplex channel true or virtual between the communicating wireless communication device and or and the one or more other wireless communication devices of the target set. Also in various embodiments the communication server may attempt to bridge the requested direct communication with the target set if at least one of the wireless communication devices of the target set have informed the communication server of their presence on the wireless network .

The communications server may also inform the wireless communication device and of the inability to bridge a direct communication to the target set upon none of the wireless telecommunication devices or at least one of the target set not having informed the group communication server of their presence on the wireless network . Further while the communications server is shown here as having the attached database of group identification data the group communication server device may have group identity data resident thereupon and perform all storage functions described herein.

In various embodiments the communication server may perform arbitration functions between competing demands of the various wireless communication devices for use of PTT communication channels over wireless network . For example in response to a request from wireless communication device to communicate with one or more other target devices in PTT group including all other devices in the group the communication server may establish a PTT channel between the requesting device and all or a portion of the requested target devices in group . The communication server may thus grant control of the floor to the requesting wireless communication device . When competing requests exist amongst devices of the group for control of the floor the communication server may arbitrate between competing requests based on pre determined priority criteria. The priority criteria may be established at the time of the PTT group formation such as by a group administrator and stored in communication server and or database . In various embodiments the priority criteria may be default priority criteria stored in server and or database . In some embodiments the priority criteria may be established on an ad hoc basis by one or more of the wireless communication devices in the PTT group .

In overview the system may include at least one wireless communication device such as wireless communication device that may be a member of a PTT communication group of wireless communication devices. The wireless communication devices in this example may be configured to communicate with each other or communicate as a group across a wireless communication network . In addition in various embodiments at least one of the wireless communication devices may be configured to selectively send data packages to other members of the communication group . At least one communications server may be configured to store information on communication groups on the wireless communication network the information including the identity of the specific member wireless communication devices of one or more communication groups. The communications server may be further configured to selectively receive data packages from a sending wireless communication device such as wireless communication device of a communication group .

In various embodiments the media server may be configured to receive the data packages from the wireless communication device such as wireless communication device and selectively permit members of the communication group to access the stored data packages across the wireless communication network . In an embodiment data packages may include but are not limited to pictures in JPEG TIF and the like audio files such as MP3 MP4 WAV and the like documents and or presentations. The data packages may additionally include streaming media such as a multimedia application PowerPoint MOV file and the like . Also the data packages may include half duplex video conferencing among members of the communication group wherein the picture of the speaker may be broadcast to the other group members in substantial real time or in delay.

The size of the data package files can be very large and because of the potential delay of sending the media or inability of the receiving wireless communication device to handle the sent media the system may use a media server to store the data packages such that target members of the communication group can selectively access the stored media without interrupting other PTT communications. Alternatively in one embodiment if the data packages are stored at the media server the media server may be configured to send a hypertext link to the originating device or the target wireless communication devices of the communication group . The hypertext link in this example may provide a link to the stored group directed media at the media server . Upon receipt of data packages by at least one of the member wireless devices of the communication group the communications server may send an acknowledgement indicating to the wireless communication device and that at least one member wireless communication device of the communication group received the data package.

The wireless communication device may send communication group identification data to the communications server at the time of sending a data package e.g. a target list and thus the media server may be configured to send or store the data package to or for the member wireless communication devices identified in the communication group identification data based upon a variety of criteria. Alternately prior to the wireless communication device sending data packages the wireless communication device and may request member data for a communication group from the communications server and the server may send one or more addresses or communication group addresses to the wireless communication device and . In an embodiment the communications server may filter the potential communication groups available based upon their member devices capability to receive data packages.

As is further described herein the wireless communication device and may be engaged in a group communication with the member wireless communication devices of the communication group and send data packages during the group communication in the same communication session either to all members or a subset thereof. Alternately the data packages may be sent independently of the group communication session.

Continuing with the description of the communications server s in this example may be connected to a wireless service provider s packet data service node PDSN such as PDSN shown here resident on a carrier network . When a wireless communication device accesses the wireless data network to obtain services the PDSN may interface with an authentication authorization and accounting server AAA to authenticate the wireless communication devices and or . The AAA may be coupled to a database operable to store information such as user accounts and privileges. Each PDSN may interface with a base station controller of a base station through a packet control function PCF . The PCF may be located in the base station . The wireless network may control messages generally in the form of data packets sent to a messaging service controller MSC . The carrier network in this example may communicate with the MSC by a network the Internet and or POTS plain ordinary telephone system . Typically the network or Internet connection between the wireless network and the MSC transfers data and the POTS transfers voice information. The MSC may be connected to one or more base stations . In a similar manner to the carrier network the MSC is typically connected to the branch to source BTS by both the network and or Internet for data transfer and POTS for voice information. The BTS ultimately broadcasts and receives messages wirelessly to and from the wireless devices such as devices A through D which may be cellular telephones by short messaging service SMS or other over the air methods known in the art. It should also be noted that carrier boundaries and or PTT operator network boundaries do not inhibit or prohibit the sharing of data as described herein.

Wireless communication telecommunication devices such as mobile or wireless telephones are being manufactured with increased computing capabilities and are becoming tantamount to personal computers and hand held PDAs. These smart cellular telephones allow software developers to create software applications that are downloadable and executable on the processor of the wireless device. The wireless device such as device can download many types of data packages which are discrete segments of computer code such as applications web pages applets MIDlets multi media picture games and simple data. In wireless devices that have designated a communication group such as depicted by the wireless communication device may directly connect with the other member of the set and engage in voice and data communication. However in various embodiments such direct group communications may occur through or at the control of the group communication server . All data packets of the devices do not necessarily have to travel through the communication server itself but in various embodiments the communication server is preferably able to ultimately control the communication because it is typically the only server side component that is aware of and or can retrieve the identity of the members of the communication group or direct the identity of the members of the communication group to another computer device.

As shown in method the wireless communication device may download group communication application software such as PTT application software in optional block . The group communication application software may include all or a portion of group communication client software such as described above in connection with . In various embodiments a downloadable version of the group communication application software allows devices which are capable of supporting group communication to download and run the group communication application to provide the wireless device with group communication functionality. In other embodiments the wireless device may have factory installed group communication application software in which case the optional block may not be performed.

The wireless communication device may establish a group of one or more other wireless communication devices for group communication e.g. a group communication group in optional bock . It will be understood that a group communication group may include one other device. A group communication group may also comprise a plurality of other devices to enable multi cast or broadcast communication with the plurality of devices over a wireless network using the group communication function. As shown in for example a group communication group College Friends has been established which includes six devices the user s own wireless device and five other devices.

In various embodiments the group communication group may be established by the user or users of the various wireless devices for example in an ad hoc process. The establishment of a group communication group may be performed through or under the control of a server such as communication group server as described above in connection with . It will be understood that a plurality of different group communication groups may be established and a single wireless communication device may be included in a plurality of different group communication groups and may communicate with devices of any one of the groups using the group communication function. In some embodiments one or more group communication groups may be previously established on the wireless communication device such as by a system administrator in which case the optional block may not be performed.

In block the wireless communication device may initiate the group communication function in response to input from the user of the device . For example the user may select from a menu and launch a group communication application on the wireless device using a suitable user interface such as the touchscreen display of . The initiation of the group communication function may also include the selection of a group communication group with which to establish a group communication session wherein the group communication group may consist of one or more wireless communication devices.

In block the wireless communication device may display the state of the group communication session using visual feedback on the display screen of the device . As described in further detail below the display screen which in various embodiments consists of a touchscreen may display visual feedback cues including graphical elements and or colors to indicate the various states of the group communication session such as floor status i.e. floor open floor granted etc. the status of other group member s the existence of long connection times etc.

Referring to the exemplary embodiments of a touchscreen display shown in in is shown a touchscreen display in which a group communication application specifically a PTT application has been initiated. The display identifies a group with which a PTT communication session has been established and further displays a plurality of icons representing the individual members of the group . A virtual PTT button is displayed on the screen . In various embodiments a virtual PTT button may function much like a conventional hardware PTT button. When the device detects a touch event on the virtual button the device may transmit a request to the communication server to open a communication channel from the wireless device to the other device s in the PTT group. illustrates an exemplary embodiment of a display which shows a neutral state of the PTT session in which the PTT session has been initiated such as by the user s finger touching the virtual PTT button but no communication channel is currently established i.e. the floor is open . illustrates the display where the user s finger is touching the virtual button and a communication channel from the wireless device to other devices in the group is established and open i.e. the floor has been granted to the wireless communication device . In this state the wireless communication device may transmit voice and or other data across wireless network to the other device s in the PTT group. As shown in this state i.e. floor granted to device may be indicated by a change in color over a portion of the display .

The device may maintain the various visual feedback features corresponding to the group communication state in blocks and respectively until the device receives a floor status communication from server in block and the above process may repeat.

Referring again to in various embodiments a wireless communication device can include a display that displays visual feedback of the participation state of one or more devices in a group communication such as a PTT communication. In various embodiments the device may display visual feedback that indicates which users from a group are available to participate in a group communication as well as which users from the group are not available. In various embodiments the device may also display the reason s why one or more users are not available to participate in a group communication. As shown in the display screen of the device may display an identification of a group with which a group communication session has been initiated which may include the name of the group e.g. College Friends the number of members of the group as well as the group members currently participating in the group communication session e.g. You 3 5 . The display screen may also display icons representing each of the members of the group. The display screen may display only a limited number of icons and may enable the user to scroll through to view additional icons and or may include a separate icon to enable the user to view the icons of additional group members. The icons may include photographs of the group members when available and may include a default icon where a photograph is not available. Icon represents a member of the group who is not participating in the group communication session. In various embodiments icon of a non participating group member may include different visual characteristics than the icons of participating group members. In the embodiment illustrated in for example icon has a darker color than the other icons and is also partially faded out. Any suitable graphical features can be utilized to indicate the participation state s of the various members. In various embodiments the display can include visual features to indicate the reason for non participation of one or more group members. In some embodiments the user may click on the icon of a non participating member to display the reason for non participation such as the member is busy e.g. on another call unreachable e.g. the member s device is out of the coverage area or not enabled for group communication unavailable e.g. the user s device is turned off or is otherwise not participating in the call e.g. the member has placed his her device on mute . In various embodiments the user may be able to set the status of his or her wireless device e.g. I am in a meeting until 2 pm and unavailable to talk and this reason for non participation may be displayed on the devices of other members of the group.

In some embodiments in a conventional mode of operation the device may maintain floor control while the device detects a touch event on the screen or on a portion thereof. Thus the device may operate like a conventional PTT enabled device having a dedicated PTT button in which the user must keep the PTT button pressed while communicating with the group. Thus in order to communicate with the at least one other member of the communication group the user must maintain continuous touch contact with the screen . It will be understood that even where the user maintains touch contact with the screen the user s device may still lose control of the floor where for example another device in the group having a higher priority than the original user s device as determined by server simultaneously requests control of the floor.

In various embodiments in addition to the conventional mode described above the device may additionally include a hands free mode in which the user may actuate a locking mechanism to maintain control of the floor i.e. lock the floor without requiring the user to continuously maintain contact with the screen. The user actuated locking mechanism may take a variety of forms such as a virtual button on a touchscreen interface display or a key entry on a conventional keypad interface. As shown in the locking mechanism may be a sliding lock on a touchscreen display . The sliding lock may be a target based lock meaning that the user may actuate the lock by touching the screen at a first location and then sliding his or her finger towards a second target location on the screen. The device may detect a touch event on the first location and the sliding movement of the finger towards the second target location. When the device detects the finger within a pre determined proximity to the target location the device may enter a hands free mode in which the device maintains an open communication channel without requiring continuous user contact with the user interface. In the example shown in the first location may be the virtual PTT button in and the second or target location may be the slide to lock bar in . The user may actuate the hands free mode by sliding his or her finger from the virtual PTT button to the slide to lock bar . This actuates the sliding lock mechanism. The device may provide visual and or audio feedback of entry into the hands free mode. For example as shown in upon entry into the hands free mode the slide to lock bar may disappear and a slide to unlock bar may be displayed in a different location. In various embodiments the hands free mode may enable a user to maintain an open PTT communication channel without physically contacting the user interface or even without holding the device. As shown in C in the hands free mode the device may maintain control of the floor for group communication when the user s finger is removed from the screen . The device may utilize a speakerphone option. In certain embodiments as shown in the hands free mode may be used in conjunction with an earpiece device such as a headset which may be connected to the device via a suitable link which may be a wireless link such as a BLUETOOTH wireless link.

The device may remain in hands free mode until either the device loses floor control e.g. the server grants control of the floor to another device based on server floor arbitration priority rules or the user actuates an unlocking mechanism. In various embodiments the unlocking mechanism may be the same mechanism as the locking mechanism and the user may toggle between a locked and an unlocked state. Thus to de activate the locking mechanism the user may slide the locking mechanism e.g. a virtual display on a touchscreen interface in the opposite direction as the locking movement in order to de activate the locking mechanism. The unlocking mechanism may be a virtual button on a touchscreen interface display or a key entry on a conventional keypad interface. As shown in the unlocking mechanism may be a sliding lock on a touchscreen display . The sliding lock may be a target based lock as described above. In the example shown in the user may touch a first location which may be in the central region of the display and slide his or her finger to a target location which may be the slide to unlock bar . When the device detects the user s finger within a pre determined proximity of the slide to unlock bar the device may exit the hands free mode de activate the lock mechanism and return to a conventional mode of operation.

The device may display an indication that the user has the ability to lock the floor in block . This may include displaying a locking mechanism on the screen such as the slide to lock indication in . The device may detect the actuation of a locking mechanism by the user on the user interface in block . In various embodiments the user actuated locking mechanism may be for example a virtual button on a touchscreen interface display or a key entry on a conventional keypad interface. In some embodiments such as shown in the locking mechanism may be a sliding lock on a touchscreen display . The sliding lock may be a target based lock meaning that the user may actuate the lock by touching the screen at a first location and then sliding his or her finger towards a second target location on the screen.

While the locking mechanism is actuated the device may maintain the open group communication channel in a hands free mode in block . As described above the hands free mode of the device may enable the device to maintain control of the floor i.e. lock the floor without requiring the user to continuously maintain contact with the user interface as is the case in conventional PTT enabled devices. The device may provide an indication of a group communication state of floor locked to the user s device in block . For example the device may provide audio feedback and or display visual feedback on display screen to indicate that the floor is locked to the user s device in hands free mode. The device may remain in hands free mode while the locking mechanism remains actuated i.e. determination block Yes . The user may unlock the device by actuating an unlocking mechanism which in various embodiments may be the same as the locking mechanism may involve de activating the locking mechanism by moving the indication in the opposite direction to locking and may be a virtual button on a touchscreen interface or a key entry on a keypad interface. As shown in the unlocking mechanism may be a sliding lock on a touchscreen display . The sliding lock may be a target based lock meaning that the user may unlock the device by touching the screen at a first location and then sliding his or her finger towards a second target location on the screen.

When the locking mechanism is de activated or no longer actuated i.e. determination block No the device may end the hands free mode and provide an indication that the floor is no longer locked to the user s device in block . The device may continue the group communication i.e. determination block Yes and maintain the communication channel in response to user input such as the user continuing to contact the touchscreen in block or the device may not continue the communication i.e. determination block No and close the communication channel in block . In various embodiments a locking mechanism such as described above in connection with and may be used to initiate other PTT modes in alternative to or in addition to the hands free mode described above. In some embodiments the device may include a plurality of user actuated locking mechanisms which may be for example virtual buttons on a touchscreen interface display and or key entries on a conventional keypad interface. In some embodiments the device may include a sliding lock on a touchscreen display such as shown in . The sliding lock may be a target based lock having a plurality of different target locations on the screen. The user may actuate and de actuate different locks by touching the screen at a first location and then sliding his or her finger towards the different target locations on the screen. The different target locations may correspond with different PTT modes according to various embodiments.

In the embodiment method shown in the device may determine the state of a group communication session in block . The device may display on a display screen a state of the group session using visual feedback in block . The device may receive user input on a user interface to initiate a group communication in block . The user input may be a touch event on a touchscreen such as a touch event on a virtual PTT button as described above in connection with . In other embodiments the user input may be a key entry on a keypad interface. The device may send a request to a server such as communication server for control of the floor in a group communication session in block . If control of the floor is not granted i.e. determination block No then the device may determine the updated state of the group communication in block and display the updated state in block . When control of the floor is granted i.e. determination block Yes then the device may establish an open group communication channel with one or more devices in a group in block . The device may display visual feedback on the display screen indicating a group communication state of floor granted to the user s device in block . The device may further provide an indication to the user that a priority locked mode is available.

The device may detect the actuation of a priority locking mechanism by the user on the user interface in block . In various embodiments the user actuated locking mechanism may be for example a virtual button on a touchscreen interface display or a key entry on a conventional keypad interface. In some embodiments the locking mechanism may be a sliding lock on a touchscreen display such as the sliding locking mechanism shown in . The sliding lock may be a target based lock meaning that the user may actuate the lock by touching the screen at a first location and then sliding his or her finger towards a second target location on the screen. In various embodiments the sliding lock may include a plurality of target locations on the display screen where each target location initiates a different group communication mode of the device. For example a first target location may correspond with a priority lock mode and a second target location may correspond with another mode such as the hands free mode described above in connection with .

Upon detection of a user actuation of the priority locking mechanism in block the device may send a request to a server such as communication server for priority floor access at block . If the request is not granted i.e. determination block No the device may then communicate over the group communication channel in a non priority locked mode in block . When the request is granted i.e. determination block Yes the device may maintain the group communication channel in priority locked mode in block and display a state of floor priority locked on user s device in block . In various embodiments the priority lock mode may provide the device with control of the floor which generally may not be interrupted by another device in the group. While the priority locking mechanism is activated i.e. determination block Yes the device may maintain the group communication channel in a priority lock mode in block . When the priority locking mechanism is no longer actuated i.e. determination block No then the device may end the priority lock mode and provide an indication that the floor is no longer priority locked in block . The device may notify the server that priority floor access is no longer requested at block . The device may continue to communicate over the group communication channel in a non priority locked mode in block .

In some embodiments priority locking mechanism may allow the user to lock the device to one of a plurality of different priority levels. This may be similar to an automotive transmission gearshift in which the different priority levels are analogous to the different gears e.g. first gear second gear third gear etc. of a gearshift. A first priority locking level may provide a first level of priority access for floor control a second priority level may provide a second progressively higher level of priority access for floor control and so forth. The various priority levels may be actuated using a target based sliding lock mechanism such as described above where the user may use the locking mechanism to actuate progressive levels of priority locking.

In various embodiments the server may grant priority floor access to a user device for a pre determined maximum time period and if no message is received from the user device within that time period the server may release the user device from priority floor access. The server may also implement priority rule s for handling floor control in cases where more than one user device requests priority floor access at the same time.

In the embodiment method shown in the device may determine a state of a group communication session in block and display on a display screen the determined state of the group communication session using visual feedback in block . The device may detect the actuation of a media locking mechanism by the user on the user interface in block . In various embodiments the user actuated media locking mechanism may be for example a virtual button on a touchscreen interface display or a key entry on a conventional keypad interface. In some embodiments the media locking mechanism may be a sliding lock on a touchscreen display such as the sliding locking mechanism shown in . The sliding lock may be a target based lock meaning that the user may actuate the lock by touching the screen at a first location and then sliding his or her finger towards a second target location on the screen. In various embodiments the sliding lock may include a plurality of target locations on the display screen where each target location initiates a different group communication mode of the device. For example a first target location may correspond with a media lock mode and one or more additional target location s may correspond with another mode such as the hands free mode described above in connection with and or the priority lock mode described above in connection with .

Upon detection of a user actuation of the media locking mechanism in block the device may send a request to a server such as communication server for a media lock at block . If the request is not granted i.e. determination block No the device may transmit media in the normal manner over a non media locked channel in block . When the request is granted i.e. determination block Yes the device may establish a group media communication channel in block and maintain the group media communication channel in media locked mode in block . The device may display on the display screen visual features indicating a group communication state of media lock granted in block . While the media locking mechanism is actuated i.e. determination block Yes the device may maintain the group media communication channel in a media locked mode in block . When the media locking mechanism is no longer actuated i.e. determination block No then the device may send a message to the server to end the media lock at block . The device may discontinue the media communication i.e. determination block No and close the group media communication channel in block . The device may alternatively continue the media communication i.e. determination block Yes and transmit the media over a non media locked channel in block .

In various embodiments the server may grant a media lock to a user device for a pre determined maximum time period and if no message is received from the user device within that time period the server may release the media lock. The server may also implement priority rule s for handling floor control in cases where more than one user device requests a media lock at the same time.

In the embodiment method shown in the device may begin a group communication session such as a PTT communication in block . The device may display on a display screen a state of the group communication session using visual feedback in block . The device may detect the actuation of a lockout mechanism by the user on the user interface in block . In various embodiments the user actuated lockout mechanism may be for example a virtual button on a touchscreen interface display or a key entry on a conventional keypad interface. In some embodiments the media locking mechanism may be a sliding lock on a touchscreen display such as the sliding locking mechanism shown in . The sliding lock may be a target based lock meaning that the user may actuate the lock by touching the screen at a first location and then sliding his or her finger towards a second target location on the screen. In various embodiments the sliding lock may include a plurality of target locations on the display screen where each target location initiates a different group communication mode of the device. For example a first target location may correspond with a lockout mode and one or more additional target location s may correspond with another group communication mode such as the hands free mode described above in connection with the priority lock mode described above in connection with and or the media lock mode described above in connection with .

In various embodiments the user may select one or more members of the group with which to lock out from group communications. The user may for example select a contact icon representing a particular group member and actuate the lockout mechanism to lock out the group member from group communications. In some embodiments the contact icon of the group member to be locked out may be the target in a target based sliding lock mechanism. The user may slide his or her finger to particular contact icon s to lock out the respective user s from group communication. In some embodiments the user may drag the contact icons to an additional target location such as a lockout icon to effectuate the lockout mode with respect to that group member. In other embodiments the device may display a locking mechanism e.g. a slide to lock bar a virtual switch toggle button etc. in association with each contact icon. The locking mechanism may be displayed for example after the user first touches the contact icon. Actuating the locking mechanism may effectuate the lockout mode with respect to the selected group member.

Upon detection of the user actuation of the lockout mechanism in block the device may establish a group communication channel with one or more devices in the group excluding device s of locked out group member s in block . This may involve a temporary reconfiguring of the group communication session which may be performed by or in conjunction with a group communication server as discussed below. The user device may exclude the device s of locked out group member s from outgoing group communications in block . The device may display on the display screen visual features indicating that a lockout is actuated with respect to selected group member s in block . While the lockout is actuated i.e. determination block Yes the device may continue to exclude the device s of locked out group member s from outgoing group communications from the user s device in block . When the lockout mechanism is no longer actuated i.e. determination block No then the device may include the device s of previously locked out group member s in outgoing group communications in block . In other words the group communication session may be returned to its original configuration.

In the embodiment method shown in the device may begin a group communication session in block . The device may display on a display screen a state of the group session using visual feedback in block . The device may detect the actuation of a blocking mechanism by the user on the user interface in block . In various embodiments the user actuated blocking mechanism may be for example a virtual button on a touchscreen interface display or a key entry on a conventional keypad interface. In some embodiments the media locking mechanism may be a sliding lock on a touchscreen display such as the sliding locking mechanism shown in . The sliding lock may be a target based lock meaning that the user may actuate the lock by touching the screen at a first location and then sliding his or her finger towards a second target location on the screen. In various embodiments the sliding lock may include a plurality of target locations on the display screen where each target location initiates a different group communication mode of the device. For example a first target location may correspond with a blocking mode and one or more additional target location s may correspond with another mode such as the hands free mode described above in connection with the priority lock mode described above in connection with the media lock mode described above in connection with and or the lockout mode described above in connection with .

In various embodiments the user may select one or more members of the group to block from receiving group communications by the user s device . The user may for example select a contact icon representing a particular group member and actuate the blocking mechanism to block communications from the selected group member. In some embodiments the contact icon of the group member to be blocked may be the target in a target based sliding lock mechanism. The user may slide his or her finger to particular contact icon s to block the respective user s . In some embodiments the user may drag the contact icon of a particular group member to a target area such as a block icon to effectuate the block. In other embodiments the device may display a locking mechanism e.g. a slide to lock bar a virtual switch toggle or button etc. in association with each contact icon. The blocking mechanism may be displayed for example after the user first touches the contact icon. Actuating the blocking mechanism may effectuate a block of the selected group member.

Upon detecting a user actuation of the blocking mechanism in block the device may block communications from selected blocked group member s from being received by the user s device in block . The device may display on the display screen visual features indicating that blocking is actuated with respect to selected group member s in block . While the blocking is actuated i.e. determination block Yes the device may continue to block communications from the blocked member s in block . When the blocking mechanism is no longer actuated i.e. determination block No then the device may receive communications from previously blocked group members in block .

In some embodiments the blocking mode may be analogous to a mute button in that the user does not hear or view communications from the blocked group member s but other users in the group may still receive communications from the blocked member s . In some embodiments the blocking function may be implemented on the user device without the knowledge or intervention of a server. In other embodiments the user device may signal a server such as group communication server when the blocking mechanism is actuated and the server may reconfigure the communication session so that communications from a blocked device are not transmitted to the blocking device . In some embodiments actuating the blocking mechanism with respect to a group member s device may block the selected device from sending any communications to the group e.g. it may prevent the blocked device from gaining control of the floor . In this embodiment upon actuation of the blocking mechanism the device may send a request to a server such as group communication server to block a specified device from communicating with the group. The server may determine whether to block the device based on pre determined blocking criteria which may be stored at the server and which may include for example the priority status of the user requesting the block the priority status of the user requested to be blocked the number of different blocking requests received for a particular user etc.

The device may detect a user selection of a quick contact group communication shortcut icon on a user interface in optional block and may display a group communication button e.g. a PTT button in association with the quick contact shortcut icon in step . In some embodiments the optional step may be omitted and the device may automatically display the group communication button in association with the quick contact shortcut icon in step . In some embodiments the group communication button may comprise a portion of or the entirety of the quick connect group communication shortcut icon. The device may detect a selection of the group communication button by a user on a user interface in block . In various embodiments using a touchscreen display the device may detect a touch event on the group communication button. The device may initiate a group communication with the device of the selected contact in block .

The various embodiments may be implemented on any of a variety of commercially available server devices such as the server illustrated in . Such a server typically includes a processor coupled to volatile memory and a large capacity nonvolatile memory such as a disk drive . The server may also include a floppy disc drive compact disc CD or DVD disc drive coupled to the processor . The server may also include network access ports coupled to the processor for establishing data connections with a network such as a local area network coupled to other broadcast system computers and servers. The processors may be any programmable microprocessor microcomputer or multiple processor chip or chips that can be configured by software instructions applications to perform a variety of functions including the functions of the various embodiments described above. In some devices multiple processors may be provided such as one processor dedicated to wireless communication functions and one processor dedicated to running other applications. Typically software applications may be stored in the internal memory and before they are accessed and loaded into the processor .

The processor may include internal memory sufficient to store the application software instructions. In many devices the internal memory may be a volatile or nonvolatile memory such as flash memory or a mixture of both. For the purposes of this description a general reference to memory refers to memory accessible by the processor including internal memory or removable memory plugged into the device and memory within the processor itself.

The foregoing method descriptions and the process flow diagrams are provided merely as illustrative examples and are not intended to require or imply that the steps of the various embodiments must be performed in the order presented. As will be appreciated by one of skill in the art the order of steps in the foregoing embodiments may be performed in any order. Words such as thereafter then next etc. are not intended to limit the order of the steps these words are simply used to guide the reader through the description of the methods. Further any reference to claim elements in the singular for example using the articles a an or the is not to be construed as limiting the element to the singular.

The various illustrative logical blocks modules circuits and algorithm steps described in connection with the aspects disclosed herein may be implemented as electronic hardware computer software or combinations of both. To clearly illustrate this interchangeability of hardware and software various illustrative components blocks modules circuits and steps have been described above generally in terms of their functionality. Whether such functionality is implemented as hardware or software depends upon the particular application and design constraints imposed on the overall system. Skilled artisans may implement the described functionality in varying ways for each particular application but such implementation decisions should not be interpreted as causing a departure from the scope of the present invention.

The hardware used to implement the various illustrative logics logical blocks modules and circuits described in connection with the aspects disclosed herein may be implemented or performed with a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor may be any conventional processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration. Alternatively some steps or methods may be performed by circuitry that is specific to a given function.

In one or more exemplary aspects the functions described may be implemented in hardware software firmware or any combination thereof. If implemented in software the functions may be stored on as one or more instructions or code on a non transitory computer readable storage medium. The steps of a method or algorithm disclosed herein may be embodied in a processor executable software module which may reside or be stored on a non transitory computer readable storage medium or processor readable medium. Non transitory computer readable and processor readable storage media may be any available media that may be accessed by a computer or processor. By way of example and not limitation such non transitory computer readable media may include RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that may be used to store desired program code in the form of instructions or data structures and that may be accessed by a computer. Disk and disc as used herein includes compact disc CD laser disc optical disc digital versatile disc DVD floppy disk and blu ray disc where disks usually reproduce data magnetically while discs reproduce data optically with lasers. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of non transitory computer readable media. Additionally the operations of a method or algorithm may reside as one or any combination or set of codes and or instructions on a non transitory processor readable medium and or computer readable medium which may be incorporated into a computer program product.

The preceding description of the disclosed aspects is provided to enable any person skilled in the art to make or use the present invention. Various modifications to these aspects will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art and the generic principles defined herein may be applied to other aspects without departing from the scope of the invention. Thus the present invention is not intended to be limited to the aspects shown herein but is to be accorded the widest scope consistent with the principles and novel features disclosed herein.

