---

title: Two-dimensional optical spot location using a one-dimensional detector array
abstract: An optical detector array is disclosed to locate dynamically the source position of an incoming beam of light. For example, the incoming beam of light may be a reflection of a low-divergence laser beam from a scattering surface in target space. A system and a method are disclosed for determining the position of a light spot generated by an optical beam when it falls on a scattering surface based on a one-dimensional detector array.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09395296&OS=09395296&RS=09395296
owner: THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA, AS REPRESENTED BY THE SECRETARY OF THE ARMY
number: 09395296
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150220
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured used sold imported and or licensed by or for the Government of the United States of America.

The present disclosure addresses a system and a method to dynamically locate the source position of an incoming beam of light generated by the reflection of a low divergence laser beam from a scattering surface in target space.

A method for determining the position of a detected light spot from an optical beam incident on a scattering surface is disclosed using a linear optical detector array.

In one aspect a method is disclosed for determining the position of a light spot generated by an optical beam when it falls on a scattering surface using a detector array. Such a method is comprised of the steps of emitting light from a laser source towards a surface to reflect and backscatter the emitted light incident on the surface focusing said backscattered light incident on a lens to a spot in a focal plane of the lens disposing a fiber bundle with its input end near the focal plane of the lens placing a detector array against an output end of the fiber bundle outputting 2D intensity distribution in the focal plane to produce a corresponding set of electrical signals electronic signal processing the set of electrical signals to provide high resolution spot location wherein a position of the focused spot formed by the lens is determined based on finding a centroid of a set of the brightest illuminated pixels of the detector array a bore sight aligned camera providing a context image and displaying the location of the spot on a display of said context image based on said electronic signal processing of said set of electrical signals.

In another aspect a system is disclosed for determining the position of a light spot generated by an optical beam when it falls on a scattering surface. Such a system is comprised of a laser source for emitting light towards a surface to reflect and backscatter the emitted light a lens disposed to focus said backscattered light to a spot in a focal plane of the lens a fiber bundle with its input end disposed near the focal plane of the lens an output end of the fiber bundle being arranged to output a 2D intensity distribution in the focal plane mapped to a linear geometry at its output end a linear detector array disposed to mate with said output end of the fiber bundle and output one dimensional linear array data as a set of signals that represent the intensity distribution in the focal plane of the lens an electronic signal processor to process the one dimensional linear array data for high resolution spot location and a display for imaging said surface in an x y position display field of view. A position of the spot is indicated by a marker icon on the display based on the processed one dimensional linear array data.

Yet in another aspect a system for determining the position of a light spot is disclosed based on a hexagonal close packed fiber array. Such a system is comprised of a lens disposed to focus light to a focal plane of the lens a hexagonal close packed fiber array with its input end disposed near the focal plane of the lens wherein pairs of adjacent fibers at the input end form micro bundles to output an image in the focal plane mapped to a linear geometry of sequenced micro bundles at its output end and a linear detector array disposed to mate with said linear geometry of sequenced micro bundles wherein a pair of fibers at the output end couples to a respective set of sequential pixels of said linear detector array to output one dimensional linear array data in sets of sequential pixels as an image signal output for electronic signal processing to determine the position of the light spot.

A method and a system for determining the position of a light spot generated by an optical beam when it falls on a scattering surface is disclosed.

 and angles of rays incident on the lens are proportional to the x and y position of the light spot on the target surface as measured from the center axis through the lens. Therefore the x y position of the focused spot in the lens focal plane directly represents the x y position of the laser spot in the target surface e.g. . As an example light spot in is located on the center axis of the lens light scattered from this location is collected by the lens and focused into a spot at the center of the focal plane of the lens . Light scattered from spot is displaced vertically from the optical axis of the lens and is focused by the lens into a spot that is vertically displaced by a distance of y f in the focal plane of the lens.

In the general example 100a of the simplest method to determine the location of the laser spot in the target space surface is to place a 2 dimensional detector array against an output end of the fiber bundle outputting a 2D intensity distribution in the focal plane of the lens in . The position of the spot formed by the lens is then found by locating the centroid of a set of brightest illuminated pixels of the FPA of the detector based on electronic signal processing e.g. of the 2D intensity distribution output. The number of illuminated pixels depends on the FPA pixel size and the size of the focused spot which in turn is determined by the focal length diameter optical quality of the lens and the distance of the input end of the fiber bundle from the focal plane of the lens. For short wave infrared SWIR wavelengths near 1550 nm the conventional Indium Gallium Arsenide InGaAs cameras with two dimensional detector arrays are much more expensive than Silicon based counterparts used for shorter wavelengths have slow read out rates typically below 100 Hz and have lower resolution which provides a need for a lower cost and faster response spot tracking solution for the SWIR spectral band. Finally in order to display the position of the light spot on the target surface the output of the processor provides an input to a 2 D image display the spot position is indicated on the display by a small marker icon. The icon is superimposed on a context image of the target surface . This context image is provided by a camera that is bore sighted with the spot position sensor.

Alternatively in we describe herein an alternate method to use one dimensional InGaAs detector arrays which are less complex and costly than two dimensional arrays and have a faster overall readout rate a feature required for discriminating short laser pulses from image clutter caused by sunlight. An exemplary embodiment of such an array is InGaAs linear photodiode array. See e.g. linear 1024 element InGaAs detector array described by Sensors Unlimited Inc. in web link http www.sensorsinc.com downloads SU1024LE.pdf. In order to maintain the higher resolution and field of view capability of a 2D camera for spot location we also describe a method for processing the 1D linear array data to provide high resolution spot location. This position processing is similar to the method described in U.S. Pat. No. 8 493 573 B2 issued to Chinn et al. on Jul. 23 2013 but without the need to fabricate a specially configured sparse 2D detector array for placement near the lens focal plane.

As an example of such an alternate fiber bundle let each sub bundle have a circular cross section with a diameter of 0.5 mm diameter and be made up of 50 m diameter fibers. For closely packed fibers a 0.5 mm diameter circle can hold 85 fibers which comprise a sub bundle. See e.g. an exemplary sub bundle comprising about 85 fibers in . An example of a 2D array comprising 51 of such fiber sub bundles is shown in where the total array width is 4.5 mm. Specifically shows an input end of an exemplary fiber bundle e.g. comprising a 2D array of 51 sub bundles near the focal plane of lens . In this instance no finer scale fiber arrangement within a mini bundle is done so the smallest effective detection element in the focal plane is the 0.5 mm diameter circular sub bundle e.g. 1 51 . This configuration combines the features of a limited number of fiber sub bundles of large diameter 0.5 mm with the mechanical flexibility of the small 50 m diameter fibers. Larger diameter sub bundles e.g. 1 51 and larger 2D arrays of sub bundles provide a larger field of view for the laser spot location.

In a preferred embodiment the spot incident on the 2D array is larger than the size of a single sub bundle. This allows light to couple into several neighboring sub bundles e.g. 1 51 . By comparing the powers coupled into the multiple neighboring bundles the center of the focused light spot can be determined with greater precision than if all of the light were coupled in a single bundle. The size of the focused spot is increased by moving the input end of the 2D bundle away from the focal plane of the lens causing the spot to become de focused.

An alternative to the use of sub bundles exists it is more difficult to fabricate but can yield a larger number of smaller detection elements in the focal plane and provide the possibility of higher resolution location of the spot. For convenience and ease of construction special larger diameter individual fibers are used with the diameter chosen to be small enough to retain fiber flexibility. To obtain higher spatial resolution these large diameter fibers are arranged in a periodic 2D array near the lens focus and then separated to provide an ordered narrow rectangular bundle that matches the narrow linear geometry of the linear detector array. There is a predetermined sequence of the narrow bundle portion such that each detector element of the linear array which is illuminated by several fibers can be associated with a single contiguous region of the 2D input bundle. For example we choose a fiber diameter of 250 m and create high resolution elements by choosing pairs of adjacent fibers. Each pair of fibers couples light to 10 sequential pixels of the same linear array example given above. This is illustrated in . Specifically shows exemplary micro bundled pairs of fibers. The electrical signals from these 10 pixels are added together providing one electrical signal from each ordered pair of fibers. In this figure the depicted gray shades only signify that common shaded pairs form a single micro bundle whose position is known in the focal plane. In this arrangement approximately 100 detection elements are provided in the focal plane of the light collection lens twice as many as with the 0.5 mm sub bundles in .

For efficient light transmission fiber used in this application should be multimode with relatively thin cladding and a high numerical aperture to assure light gathering from a large range of light incidence angles. The fibers should also have minimum transmission loss near 1.5 m wavelength.

An example of a hexagonal close packed HCP fiber array in the lens focal plane is shown in . Specifically shows an exemplary HCP fiber pair arrangement wherein commonly shaded pairs have a common angular orientation. A white dashed circle exemplifies the size of an exemplary defocused light spot. The gray shades are only an aid to visualizing which pairs of fibers are selected for the micro bundles. In this instance the pairs with common shadings are selected along adjacent rows starting from the left all pairs are oriented horizontally. This design also allows for configuration flexibility. For example one can make the micro bundles comprising adjacent 2 pair rhombohedra thus forming a four fiber micro bundle.

The example in shows 271 fibers of which 204 102 pairs can be matched to the linear detector array. The light spot generated by the lens and shown in as dashed white line circle is sufficiently large to illuminate several contiguous fibers.

With signal processing this sensor system can determine the spot location as a coordinate in the focal plane with higher resolution than that of an individual mini or micro bundle. To achieve this the optical spot must overlap several adjacent bundles and provide different electrical signals from the corresponding regions of the linear array detectors. By displacing the fiber bundle array sufficiently from the lens focal plane the optical intensity of the defocused spot will approximate a circular top hat distribution being in the geometric cone of the focused light rays. Typically the spot diameter should be at least 1.5 times the largest sub bundle dimension as is illustrated by the white dashed line in .

To locate the spot one robust approach is to perform an optimization on the detector output signals that minimizes the error between the set of signals and the values expected from the estimated spot location. This is essentially the same as performing a maximum a posteriori estimate well known in signal processing. Further description of this technique for similar sparse array optical processing is given in U.S. Pat. No. 8 493 573 B2 issued to Chinn et al. U.S. Pat. No. 8 493 573 B2 issued on Jul. 23 2013 and entitled High resolution optical position sensing with sparse low resolution detectors is incorporated herein by reference. 

A further advantage of the linear detector array for this application is that it may operate much faster than a 2D camera because each detector can be connected to an individual preamplifier. Depending on the readout integrated circuit up to 10pixels per second may be read out. This corresponds to 10 kHz 1D frame rate useful for dynamic synchronization with pulsed signals. The high frame rate is also useful for discriminating short light pulses such as generated by a Q switched laser typically 10 30 ns long from sunlit clutter in the field of view.

It is obvious that many modifications and variations of the present invention are possible in light of the above teachings. It is therefore to be understood that within the scope of the appended claims the invention may be practiced otherwise than as described.

