---

title: Ferroelectric mechanical memory and method
abstract: A memory device comprising a base; a capacitor comprising a ferroelectric layer and at least two electrically conductive layers, the ferroelectric layer being located between the at least two electrically conductive layers; each of the at least two conductive layers being operatively connected to a current source; a cantilever attached to the base at first end and movable at a second end, the ferroelectric capacitor being mounted to the cantilever such that the second end of the cantilever moves a predetermined displacement upon application of a current to the ferroelectric layer which induces deformation of the ferroelectric layer thereby causing displacement of the cantilever which is operatively associated with a contact so that an electrical connection is enabled with the contact upon the predetermined displacement of the cantilever. The presence or absence of a connection forms two states of a memory cell.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09385306&OS=09385306&RS=09385306
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 09385306
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150312
---
This application claims priority to and the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 953 403 filed Mar. 14 2014 by Dr. Glen Richard Fox et al.

The invention described herein may be manufactured used and licensed by or for the United States Government without the payment of royalties.

The present invention relates to ferroelectric mechanical memory devices. Ferroelectric memory devices reported in patent and scientific publications and that are available commercially employ a ferroelectric capacitor that can be switched between at least two different non volatile polarization states. The remanent polarization i.e. data state stored in the ferroelectric capacitor is determined by sensing the charge flow or voltage generated on an external circuit which is driven by the switching of the ferroelectric polarization. Typical memory cell architectures consist of 1 a ferroelectric capacitor in series with a transistor known as a Ferroelectric RAM FRAM or 2 a ferroelectric capacitor placed on top and in series with the capacitor formed by the gate and gate oxide of a MOSFET which is commonly referred to as a ferroelectric FET FEFET . The Ferroelectric RAM FRAM architecture case uses a sensing method that employs the memory array bitline as a charge sharing capacitor for sensing the charge generated during polarization switching or non switching of the ferroelectric cell capacitor. The structure of the ferroelectric cell capacitor includes a ferroelectric material such as lead zirconate titanate PZT . Upon application of an electric field to the FRAM cell capacitor the dipoles tend to align themselves with the field direction and retain their polarization state after removal of the electric field which results in storage of one of two possible electric polarizations in each data storage cell either binary 0 s and 1 s.

The present invention is directed to a memory device comprising two electrically conductive layers adapted to be connected to a voltage source a ferroelectric layer positioned between the two conductive layers the ferroelectric layer comprising a fixed portion and a movable portion the movable portion being displaced a predetermined distance from a first position to a second position upon application of a positive or negative voltage between the two conductive layers a first contact operatively connectable to at least one of the two conductive layers the application of one of a positive or negative voltage from the voltage source causing movement of the movable portion from the first to the second position resulting in operative electrical connection between at least one of the two conductive layers and the contact the ferroelectric layer being configured to retain a first state if a positive voltage is applied and a second state if a negative voltage is applied. Optionally the memory device may include a base with the fixed portion being operatively connected to the base.

As a further optional configurations the memory cell may be configured such that the application of a positive charge from the voltage source causes a first state of deformation within the ferroelectric layer and the application of a negative charge causes a second state of deformation within the ferroelectric layer the subsequent application of a voltage across the one of the two conductive layers and the contact operates to determine whether the ferroelectric layer is in the first or second state. Alternatively the application of a positive or negative voltage to the two conductive layers results in different internal deformation of the ferroelectric material that can be used to store either a one or zero binary bit such that a subsequent voltage across the memory cell operates to determine whether a one or zero has been stored. Optionally following the configuration of the ferroelectric into one of the first or second states upon application of a subsequent voltage the opening and closing of the operative connection to the contact by the displacement of the ferroelectric layer operates operates as a read operation of the nonvolatile memory device. As a further option a sensor may be operatively connected to the contact to sense the opening and closing of the operative connection to the contact vis vis the conductive layer and indirectly the cantilever subassembly comprising the conductive layers ferroelectric layer and resilient layer . As a further alternative the two conductive layers and ferroelectric layer form a capacitor each of the at least two conductive layers being adapted to connected to a voltage source causing movement of the movable portion of the ferroelectric layer the results in the capacitor becoming operatively connected to the contact causing residual deformation of the ferroelectric layer. Alternatively the capacitor may be operatively associated with the cantilever such that the cantilever operatively connects to the contact and continues to be operatively connected with the contact as long as voltage is applied to the ferroelectric capacitor. The ferroelectric layer may comprise any one of PbZr0.52Ti0.48O3 1 x PbMg1 3Nb2 3O3 x PbTiO3 BaTiO3 KNaNbO3 LiNbO3 LiTaO3 doped Mg Y Ca Si Hf etc undoped ZrO2 HfO2 SrBi2Ta2O9 SrBi2Ti2O9 Bi4Ti3O12 Pb5Ge3O11 lead meta niobate and doped and undoped Mg Y Ca Si Zr 

In an alternate embodiment the ferroelectric layer comprises a piezoelectric and the two electrically conductive layers are operatively connected to first and second terminal contacts and application of a positive voltage to the first and second contacts induces a positive displacement of the cantilever due to ferroelectric domain reorientation and converse piezoelectric straining of the ferroelectric layer. As a further option the application of one of a positive or negative voltage to the ferroelectric layer from the voltage source is 0.5 to 1 MV cm and is reversed before reaching the breakdown limit.

Optionally the memory device may comprise a second ferroelectric layer positioned between two second conductive layers that has fixed portion and movable portions the movable portion being displaced a predetermined distance from a first position to a second position upon application of a positive or negative voltage between the two second conductive layers and a second contact operatively connectable to at least one of the two second conductive layers and to one of a voltage potential or ground the application of one of a positive or negative voltage from the voltage source causing movement of the movable portion from the first to the second position resulting in operative electrical connection between at least one of the two second conductive layers and the second contact the second ferroelectric layer being configured to retain a first state if a positive voltage is applied and a second state if a negative voltage is applied whereupon the memory device has four possible states the first and second states of the first ferroelectric layer and the first and second states of the second ferroelectric layer 

The present invention is also directed to a method of making a memory cell comprising forming a ferroelectric layer the ferroelectric layer have at least two sides forming a capacitor by placing conductive layers on at least two sides of the ferroelectric layer the conductive layers adapted to be connected to a voltage source securing at least one end of the capacitor while allowing the capacitor to flex into first and second positions the capacitor flexing into the second position upon application of a voltage from the voltage source a first contact the capacitor being in operative electrical connection with the first contact in the second position the voltage source operative to apply a positive or negative voltage to the ferroelectric capacitor causing different internal deformation of the ferroelectric layers depending upon whether a positive or negative voltage was applied and wherein the deformation can be used to store either a one or zero binary bit and wherein a subsequent voltage across the ferroelectric capacitor operates to determine whether a one or zero has been stored based upon operative electrical contact between the first contact and the capacitor.

Alternatively the method includes providing a base. Alternatively the ferroelectric capacitor forms part of a cantilever subassembly wherein a first portion of the cantilever subassembly is secured to the base and the second portion moves from the first position to the second position the capacitor flexing in the second position to allow operative electrical connection to the contact. Alternatively the method further comprises providing a sensor such as a sense amplifier operatively connected to the contact to sense the opening and closing of the operative connection to the contact such that during a read operation the sensor is used to detect one of the amount of time the contact is in operative electrical connection with the voltage source.

The ferroelectric material ferroelectric layer may comprise but is not limited to lead zirconate titanate which may be for example PbZrTiO 1 x PbMg1 3Nb 3O x PbTiO BaTiO KNaNbO3 LiNbO LiTaO doped Mg Y Ca Si Hf etc and undoped ZrO2 doped and undoped Mg Y Ca Si Zr etc. HfO SrBiTa2O SrBiTiO BiTiO PbGeO lead meta niobate and polyvinylidene fluoride. Moreover as a further option since anti ferroelectric materials exhibit similar strain versus electric field hysteresis behavior as that observed in ferroelectrics the ferroelectric layer could be replaced with an anti ferroelectric e.g. PbZrO.

A more complete appreciation of the invention will be readily obtained by reference to the following Description of the Preferred Embodiments and the accompanying drawings in which like numerals in different figures represent the same structures or elements. The representations in each of the figures are diagrammatic and no attempt is made to indicate actual scales or precise ratios. Proportional relationships are shown as approximates.

The embodiments of the invention and the various features and advantageous details thereof are explained more fully with reference to the non limiting embodiments that are illustrated in the accompanying drawings and detailed in the following description. It should be noted that the features illustrated in the drawings are not necessarily drawn to scale. Descriptions of well known components and processing techniques are omitted so as to not unnecessarily obscure the embodiments of the invention. The examples used herein are intended merely to facilitate an understanding of ways in which the embodiments of the invention may be practiced and to further enable those of skill in the art to practice the embodiments of the invention. Accordingly the examples should not be construed as limiting the scope of the embodiments of the invention. Rather these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will be thorough and complete and will fully convey the scope of the invention to those skilled in the art. In the drawings the dimensions of objects and regions may be exaggerated for clarity. Like numbers refer to like elements throughout. As used herein the term and or includes any and all combinations of one or more of the associated listed items.

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to limit the full scope of the invention. As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms comprises and or comprising when used in this specification specify the presence of stated features integers steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps operations elements components and or groups thereof.

It will be understood that when an element such as an object layer region or substrate is referred to as being on or extending onto another element it can be directly on or extend directly onto the other element or intervening elements may also be present. In contrast when an element is referred to as being directly on or extending directly onto another element there are no intervening elements present. It will also be understood that when an element is referred to as being connected or coupled to another element it can be directly connected or coupled to the other element or intervening elements may be present. In contrast when an element is referred to as being directly connected or directly coupled to another element there are no intervening elements present.

It will be understood that although the terms first second etc. may be used herein to describe various elements components regions layers and or sections these elements components regions layers and or sections should not be limited by these terms. For example when referring first and second photons in a photon pair these terms are only used to distinguish one element component region layer or section from another region layer or section. Thus a first element component region layer or section discussed below could be termed a second element component region layer or section without departing from the teachings of the present invention.

Furthermore relative terms such as lower or bottom and upper or top may be used herein to describe one element s relationship to other elements as illustrated in the Figures. It will be understood that relative terms are intended to encompass different orientations of the device in addition to the orientation depicted in the Figures. For example if the device in the Figures is turned over elements described as being on the lower side of other elements would then be oriented on upper sides of the other elements. The exemplary term lower can therefore encompass both an orientation of lower and upper depending of the particular orientation of the figure. Similarly if the device in one of the figures is turned over elements described as below or beneath other elements would then be oriented above the other elements. The exemplary terms below or beneath can therefore encompass both an orientation of above and below. Furthermore the term outer may be used to refer to a surface and or layer that is farthest away from a substrate.

Embodiments of the present invention are described herein with reference to cross section illustrations that are schematic illustrations of idealized embodiments of the present invention. As such variations from the shapes of the illustrations as a result for example of manufacturing techniques and or tolerances are to be expected. Thus embodiments of the present invention should not be construed as limited to the particular shapes of regions illustrated herein but are to include deviations in shapes that result for example from manufacturing. For example a region or object illustrated as a rectangular will typically have tapered rounded or curved features. Thus the regions illustrated in the figures are schematic in nature and their shapes are not intended to illustrate the precise shape of a region of a device and are not intended to limit the scope of the present invention.

Unless otherwise defined all terms including technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which this invention belongs. It will be further understood that terms such as those defined in commonly used dictionaries should be interpreted as having a meaning that is consistent with their meaning in the context of the relevant art and will not be interpreted in an idealized or overly formal sense unless expressly so defined herein.

It will also be appreciated by those of skill in the art that references to a structure or feature that is disposed adjacent another feature may have portions that overlap or underlie the adjacent feature.

The present invention may be implemented inter alia by the combination of a ferroelectric capacitor and a MEMS switch which in effect provides a switch with a non volatile memory. This non volatile ferroelectric mechanical memory uses the ability to switch between two different states of the piezoelectric induced mechanical displacement of the ferroelectric element integrated with the MEMS switch. In addition to nonvolatile memories the device can be used for example to make non volatile logic devices relays and switch networks that do not require transistors.

The present invention is directed to inter alia a memory cell architecture that uses a ferroelectric material but unlike FRAMs relies on the mechanical deformation resulting from the converse piezoelectric response to define and sense the data state stored in the cell. With ferroelectric materials the dimensions of the material can change under applied electric field. At low fields the dimensional changes are linear and can be described by the piezoelectric constitutive equations. Under high applied electric field the dimensional changes of a ferroelectric material exhibits nonlinear hysteretic behavior because of realignment or switching of the polar ferroelectric domains. The hysteretic behavior of the ferroelectric results in remanent i.e. remaining in a strained and polarized state while no longer under external electric influence dimensional changes that can be utilized for construction of non volatile memory devices i.e. memory devices that store data states even after the device power is turned off .

Hysteretic dimensional changes can be manifested in longitudinal transverse and shear strains induced by an electric field applied to the ferroelectric material. As a result of the multiple strain modes ferroelectric mechanical memory FEMM devices can be designed with a wide variety of operation modes and architectures. Preferred embodiment ferroelectric mechanical memory devices comprise a cantilever MEMS device architecture that uses ferroelectric transverse remanent displacement for data state storage and changes in circuit conduction for data state sensing. It is readily apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art that additional embodiments that have non volatile memory designs that utilize alternative MEMS architectures ferroelectric mechanical displacement or strain modes and data sensing methods may be developed without departing from the scope of the present invention.

Although not a requirement of the invention when using a ferroelectric layer the deformation may be obtained through compensating volumes of positively and negatively poled domains and continued increase in the magnitude of the voltage reorients additional polar domains which leads to a net increase in transverse ferroelectric strain and corresponding positive structural displacement of the ferroelectric second portion. When the voltage across the capacitor is decreased to zero voltage the ferroelectric domains remain oriented in the direction of the previously applied electric field causing part of the strain and correlated structural displacement to persist which results in non volatile data storage in the memory device.

The ferroelectric layer may be poled such that the ferroelectric layer returns to its original state when the voltage across the ferroelectric layer is zero. At least two electrically conductive layers electrodes may be used to activate the ferroelectric layer whereby upon application of a positive voltage to the electrodes the ferroelectric layer induces a positive displacement of the movable second portion due to ferroelectric domain reorientation and converse piezoelectric straining of the ferroelectric film. As a further option voltage applied to the two electrically conductive layers is reversed when the displacement of the second portion asymptotically approaches a maximum value at electric fields approaching 0.5 to 2 MV cm. At this point dielectric breakdown can occur in the ferroelectric layer preventing further displacement. When the voltage applied to the ferroelectric is reversed before reaching the breakdown limit ferroelectric displacement decreases to a remanent displacement of the second portion of the ferroelectric at zero voltage which is maintained due to a remanent strain of the ferroelectric layer.

A representative displacement versus voltage hysteresis loop for an ideal ferroelectric material is shown in . This type of loop is generally observed for longitudinal transverse and shear displacements although the magnitude curvature and inflection points of the loop varies based on the measured displacement mode and ferroelectric material dimensions. The origin at 0 0 represents the virgin state i.e. prior to application of any voltage to the ferroelectric material. An example of transverse displacement of a cantilever structure is shown in . Specifically shows a generalized schematic view of the displacement of a traditional cantilever of a length L such that upon application of a normal force F causes a transverse displacement D. In the case of a ferroelectric positioned between two conductors to form a cantilever the force is applied by a voltage V that strains the ferroelectric and causes an unbalanced strain differential between the ferroelectric and the conductor layers. In the preferred embodiments in though E A through D A through D A through D A through C and A through C application of a voltage across a ferroelectric film positioned between two conductive layers results in transverse strain of the ferroelectric film and subsequent movement. Because the ferroelectric film may form part of a cantilever or be made integral with a cantilever the ferroelectric film produces a force that induces a displacement of the cantilever tip that is dependent on the applied voltage. The normal force on the cantilever tip is produced by applying a voltage V that strains the ferroelectric and causes an unbalanced strain differential between the ferroelectric represented as ferroelectric layer in and the conductive layers shown as conductive layers and in and or the resilient layer . is also representative for an ideal ferroelectric and integrated cantilever tip displacement for cycling through a bipolar applied voltage that causes switching or reorientation of the ferroelectric polarization. Again it should be noted that the magnitude curvature and inflection points of the hysteresis loop depends on the materials and dimensions of the cantilever structure.

For the ideal case the as processed cantilever exhibits zero displacement and no curvature. In addition the ferroelectric film is unpoled no net remanent polarization or strain and it exhibits symmetric displacement response to an applied electric field i.e. the displacement is the same for both voltage polarities. Starting at time t 0 the applied voltage and displacement are equal to zero. Application of a positive voltage to the bottom electrode of the ferroelectric film induces a positive displacement of the cantilever tip as shown by the dotted curve in due to ferroelectric domain reorientation poling and converse piezoelectric straining of the ferroelectric film. At a sufficiently high voltage the displacement asymptotically approaches a maximum value represented by point P at electric fields approaching 0.5 to 1 MV cm for ferroelectric PbTiO dielectric breakdown occurs in the ferroelectric preventing further displacement. When the voltage is decreased dashed curve before reaching the breakdown limit cantilever displacement decreases but the rate at which the displacement decreases is slower than that observed during the ramp up. At zero voltage a remanent displacement d of the cantilever tip is maintained due to a remanent strain of the ferroelectric film. When the voltage is decreased to zero the ferroelectric domains remain oriented in the direction of the previously applied electric field causing part of the strain and correlated cantilever displacement to persist. The persistence of strain at the zero voltage state provides the origin for non volatile data storage in a ferroelectric mechanical memory device point P .

Upon reversing voltage polarity as represented by the dashed curve in cantilever displacement continues to decrease monotonically to a minimum and zero displacement assuming ideal ferroelectric and elastic behavior at V point P which is called the coercive voltage. The minimum and zero cantilever displacement is reached when the net ferroelectric polarization is eliminated due to electric field induced reorientation of ferroelectric domains and achievement of compensating volumes of positively and negatively poled domains. Continued increase in the magnitude of the negative voltage reorients additional polar domains and leads to a net increase in transverse ferroelectric strain and corresponding positive cantilever displacement. As observed with positively increasing voltage cantilever displacement under negative increasing voltage magnitude asymptotically approaches a maximum and the negative drive voltage is limited by dielectric breakdown represented by point Pin . Upon increasing voltage from the voltage minimum represented by dotted curve the cantilever displacement returns to the same remanent displacement value d observed when the applied voltage is decreased from the maximum positive voltage represented by point P .

A second cycle to maximum positive voltage represented by dotted curve does not repeat the trace of the first positive cycle represented by dotted curve because the ferroelectric domains are fully poled in the negative state at the start of the second positive voltage cycle represented by point P . During the second positive increasing voltage ramp the cantilever tip displaces through a minimum and zero value at V represented by Point P and then approaches a maximum upon complete ferroelectric domain reversal as represented by Point P. At this point a completely symmetric displacement vs. voltage loop is observed and is repeated via curve for continued cycling through positive and negative voltages.

Inspection of the symmetrical hysteresis loop reveals that only one displacement state represented by Point P exists at zero voltage indicating that remanent displacement alone cannot be used to define a non volatile memory state. One method to introduce non volatile remanent displacement states at zero voltage is to drive the ferroelectric with asymmetric or sub saturation voltages that introduce incomplete domain switching and intermediate or sub loop remanent displacements. Another method includes altering the ferroelectric such that it displays a shift of the displacement vs. voltage hysteresis along the voltage axis resulting in two unique displacement states at zero voltage this type of hysteresis asymmetry can be introduced by a variety of mechanisms including imprint composition gradients hydrogen incorporation plasma induced modification and electrode ferroelectric interface imbalances.

A preferred method for defining non volatile memory states resulting from the ferroelectric displacement vs. voltage hysteresis loop utilizes the difference in the direction of motion of a cantilever driven with the same applied voltage direction but using opposite ferroelectric polarization states. is a graphical illustration showing an ideal displacement vs. voltage hysteresis loop for the case of a poled ferroelectric switch. Note that the direction of displacement i.e. the derivative of the hysteresis curve at zero voltage differs in sign when the device is cycled through either a positive or negative voltage. If desired the origin of the hysteresis plot can be redefined by shifting the zero displacement state to d point P and the minimum displacement at points P and P is designated d. A minimum two state memory device can now be defined. When either a positive or negative voltage is applied to the ferroelectric material after an initial electrical poling the displacement will be positive or negative depending on both the applied voltage polarity and the pre induced ferroelectric polarization state. The directional change in displacement with voltage polarity can therefore be used to define a positive and negative memory state. The directional change in displacement can be either correlated or anti correlated to voltage polarity and is dependent on the pre induced polarization direction of the ferroelectric.

As shown in application of a positive voltage to the bottom electrode of the ferroelectric film can induce a positive displacement of the cantilever tip along two different paths dotted curve and dotted curve . If the ferroelectric is poled positive by an immediately preceding positive increasing voltage ramp to point P the displacement will follow curve . Alternatively if the ferroelectric is poled negatively by an immediately preceding negative voltage decrease to point P the displacement will follow curve . The time at which the voltage resides at zero after the poling and before the subsequent positive interrogation or read voltage increase does not affect the displacement path traveled therefore path and define two different non volatile states for the switch displacement. At a sufficiently high voltage the displacement along both path and path asymptotically approaches a maximum value represented by point P and at electric fields approaching 0.5 to 1 MV cm for ferroelectric PbTiO dielectric breakdown occurs in the ferroelectric preventing further displacement. When the voltage is decreased at point P before reaching the breakdown limit cantilever displacement decreases and it follows dashed curve independently of which displacement path was followed on the immediately preceding interrogation or read voltage increase. At zero voltage the displacement returns to P and the starting remanent displacement d of the cantilever tip is maintained due to a remanent strain of the ferroelectric film. When the voltage is decreased to zero the ferroelectric domains remain oriented in the direction of the previously applied maximum electric field causing part of the strain and correlated cantilever displacement to persist. Upon the return of the voltage to zero and the displacement to point P the data state has been erased because the positive interrogation or read voltage increase to point P causes the ferroelectric to always be repoled positive and the cantilever displacement will always follow curve for subsequent positive voltage increases. This type of operation is referred to as a destructive read of the memory state. In order to rewrite the data state that uses displacement path the voltage must be decreased to negative voltage point P and then returned to zero. For a negative interrogation voltage decrease a similar bimodal displacement is observed as described for the positive voltage increase with the appropriate reversal of voltage polarities. In general the persistence of ferroelectric polarization and the associated polarization induced strain at the zero voltage state provides the origin for non volatile data storage in a ferroelectric mechanical memory device.

A variety of techniques could be used to determine the data state stored by the piezoelectric or ferroelectric displacement direction described above. One such technique is sensing by electrical conduction and cantilever device architectures that enable this sensing scheme.

Referring now to a preferred embodiment memory bit cell architecture is shown. The ferroelectric capacitor comprises conductive layers and positioned above and below a ferroelectric layer which may be for example a piezoelectric layer. The ferroelectric capacitor may be positioned on a resilient or elastic layer . The ferroelectric capacitor and resilient layer extend over a cavity in base or substrate to form a cantilever structure that is suspended above the base which may be for example a Si wafer . The conductive layer upon upward bending of the resilient layer connects to a contact pad or contact layer that is located above the cantilever as shown in . Without any voltage applied to the ferroelectric layer the cantilever conductive layer is not in contact with the contact layer or contact pad and therefore the cantilever switch is in the normally open NO state. When a voltage is applied to the ferroelectic layer the cantilever will either move up or down depending on the voltage applied during the write operation or the poled state of the ferroelectric layer and the direction of the applied voltage as described previously in .

The preferred embodiment shown in further comprises input output contacts and which are connected to the conductive layers and respectively.

The ferroelectric layers used in the preferred embodiments shown in though E A through D A through D A through D A through C A through C and can comprise but are not limited to PbZrTiO 1 x PbMgNbO x PbTiO BaTiO KNaNbO LiNbO LiTaO doped Mg Y Ca Si Hf etc and undoped ZrO doped and undoped Mg Y Ca Si Zr etc. HfO SrBiTaO SrBiTiO BiTiO PbGeO lead meta niobate and polyvinylidene fluoride.

Since anti ferroelectric materials exhibit similar strain versus electric field hysteresis behavior as that observed in ferroelectrics the ferroelectric layer described above could be replaced with an anti ferroelectric e.g. PbZrO. The anti ferroelectric element will provide a similar data storage and displacement behavior.

By analogy a ferroelectric mechanical memory type device could be produced by replacing the ferroelectric element with any type of ferroic material that exhibits non volatile strain states. For example the ferroelectric could be replaced with a ferromagnetic material and the ferromagnetic material can be driven through its strain hysteresis by using an applied magnetic field. Another example would be to use a ferroelastic material like those in the NiTi shape memory alloy system and to drive the device with resistive heating to induce the strain hysteresis.

The ferroelectric capacitor is positioned in association with a MEMS switch comprising a contact layer optional cover insulator and contact or input output contact or terminal . The thin film capacitor is used to open and close the MEMS switch through the use of the converse piezoelectric and ferroelectric effect produced by applying voltage between contacts terminals and connected to the conductive layers and respectively of the ferroelectric capacitor . The ferroelectric capacitor can also be switched between or written into two different non volatile remanent polarization memory states by applying voltage between terminals and . The different remanent polarization states induce correspondingly different converse piezoelectrically driven mechanical displacement directions of the cantilever subassembly positioned on resilient layer . A memory of the converse piezoelectric displacement direction is maintained or stored by the ferroelectric material remanent polarization even when all voltage is removed from terminals and .

The write operation of the preferred embodiment memory cell is performed by application of a positive voltage as illustrated in as W to contacts and which activates the ferroelectric capacitor causing the resilient or elastic layer to bend causing electrical contact between layers and for one of the memory states. For the writing of a second memory state application of a negative voltage as illustrated in as W to contacts and activates the ferroelectric capacitor causing the resilient or elastic layer to first bend in the opposite direction for a voltage less than the magnitude of Vc and then bend in the same direction for voltage greater than the magnitude of Vc as illustrated in as displacement d .

As to the reading of the preferred embodiment memory cell subsequent to the write operations the memory state of the preferred embodiment and in particular the ferroelectric capacitor can be read by applying a voltage to terminals and illustrated as a positive voltage R and R in creating a voltage across the ferroelectric layer which causes either contact or no contact of the layer with the contact layer illustrated in as the displacement d and simultaneously measuring the voltage differential between contacts and i.e. when the switch is closed the voltage differential is zero or substantially zero or substantially smaller than the voltage measured when the switch is open. The memory can also be read by measurement of the current flow through contacts and i.e. when the switch is closed i.e. electrical contact between layers and occurs there is a non zero current flow when a voltage differential is applied across contacts and and for the reading of a 0 as illustrated in there is no electrical contact between layers and .

The combination of the ferroelectric capacitor and MEMS switch provide a switch with a non volatile memory having two different states produced by the converse piezoelectric induced mechanical displacement of the ferroelectric capacitor integrated with the MEMS switch . The alternate preferred embodiment memory cell DS comprised of two ferroelectric capacitors A and two switches A acting in tandem provide a total of four memory states. The devices and can be used for example to make non volatile memories logic relays and switch networks that do not require transistors. It can be readily appreciated by those of ordinary skill in the art that a plurality of devices like and DS can be combined in parallel series or an array to make non volatile memories logic relays and switch networks that do not require transistors. Other commercial uses include non volatile switching networks for wireless communications reprogrammable robotics and non volatile memory for tunable resonators.

The method described herein for defining non volatile memory states resulting from the displacement vs. voltage hysteresis loop utilizes the difference in the direction of motion of a cantilever driven with increasing and decreasing applied voltage between terminals and and the displacement is also dependent on the remanent polarization state of the ferroelectric capacitor. In note that the direction of displacement i.e. the derivative of the hysteresis curve at zero voltage differs in sign when the device is cycled through either a positive or negative voltage applied across the ferroelectric . If desired the origin of the hysteresis plot can be redefined by shifting the zero displacement state or remanent displacement d . A minimum two state memory device can then be defined. When either a positive or negative voltage is applied to the ferroelectric material after an initial poling the displacement will be positive or negative as long as the voltage does not exceed V and it can therefore be used to read a positive and negative memory state stored by the remanent polarization in the ferroelectric capacitor.

The write operation of the preferred embodiment memory cell is performed by application of a positive voltage as illustrated in as W to contacts and which activates the ferroelectric capacitor causing the resilient or elastic layer to bend causing electrical contact between layers and for one of the memory states. For the writing of a second memory state application of a negative voltage as illustrated in as W to contacts and activates the ferroelectric capacitor causing the resilient or elastic layer to bend first in the opposite direction for a voltage less than the magnitude of Vc and then bend in the same direction for voltage greater than the magnitude of Vc as illustrated in as displacement d .

As to the reading of the alternate preferred embodiment memory cell D subsequent to the write operations the memory state of the preferred embodiment D and in particular the ferroelectric capacitor can be read by applying a voltage to terminals and illustrated as a positive voltage R and R in creating a voltage across the ferroelectric layer which causes either contact of the layer with the contact layer or contact between the conductive layer and the contact layer A and simultaneously measuring the voltage differential between contacts and or A and i.e. when the switch is closed the voltage differential is zero or substantially zero or substantially smaller than the voltage measured when the switch is open. The memory can also be read by measurement of the current flow through one of the contacts A and i.e. when the switch is closed i.e. electrical contact between layers and occurs there is a non zero current flow when a voltage differential is applied across contacts and or A and and for the reading of a 0 as illustrated in there is electrical contact between layers and A.

The voltages to be applied are dependent upon inter alia the thickness of the ferroelectric layer . The following example utilizes a thickness at approximately 0.5 m PZT ferroelectric layer . Write voltage and read voltage are dependent on the ferroelectric material composition thickness of the ferroelectric layer used in a device the length of the cantilever and the required displacement for the cantilever to make contact. Therefore the voltages are strongly dependent on the dimensions of the device and cannot be generalized. However the following voltages may be appropriate for PbZrTiOwith ferroelectric thickness of 0.5 m. The example voltages given below are only valid for the specific ferroelectric composition and thickness given and should be viewed as approximate plus or minus 50 values. The voltages used for the ferroelectric material PbZrTiOwith a ferroelectric thickness of 0.5 m coercive voltage Vc 2.5 V write voltage 12.5 V read voltage 2 V for low voltage read method of and read voltage 12.5 V for high voltage read method of . The breakdown voltage is approximately 50 V. The first voltage applied across the ferroelectric layer during the write operation is any voltage with magnitude greater than Vc and preferably about one fourth of the breakdown voltage. For the cases included in the present application the voltage is greater than Vc to store 1 state and less than Vc to store the 0 state. The second voltage applied across the ferroelectric between and during the read operation depends on the read method used. For the low voltage method shown in the voltage is always between 0 and Vc. For PZT the Vc occurs at a voltage resulting in an electric field of about 50 kV cm. For the ramped voltage method shown in the voltage can be any voltage between 0 and the ferroelectric breakdown voltage but it is preferred that the voltage be greater than Vc and less than the breakdown voltage. For PZT the voltage applied for the read operation should be a voltage resulting in an electric field between 50 kV cm and 1 MV cm and most preferred around 200 kV cm. Non volatility allows for data to be stored between the write and read operations for times up to 10 years but not limited to 10 years. As to the maximum voltages using ferroelectric material PbZrTiOand a ferroelectric thickness 0.5 m the minimum write voltage Vc 2.5 V. The maximum voltage or breakdown voltage 50 to 100 V. All voltages are approximate values and could vary by plus minus 50 . As to the maximum and minimum read voltages using the ferroelectric material composed of PbZrTiO with a thickness 0.5 m the minimum read voltage is approximately 0.5 V and the maximum read voltage Vc 2.5 V. These voltages are approximate values and could vary by plus minus 50 . As to the expression of the read and write voltage percentage using ferroelectric material composed of PbZrTiOwith a thickness of approximately 0.5 m the coercive voltage Vc 2.5 V the write voltage 12.5 V the read voltage 2 V for low voltage read method of read voltage is 15 to 20 of the write voltage for this example. The read voltage is approximately 12.5 V for high voltage read method of and the read voltage is equal to the write voltage for the example. The breakdown voltage is approximately 50 V.

Referring to described therein is a voltage pulse sequence that defines how to write the 0 and 1 states of the single contact normally open SCNO preferred embodiment memory cell . It can be noted that this preferred embodiment memory cell comprises a single capacitor single resistor 1C1R architecture where the capacitor is nonlinear the resistor exhibits a delta function and no transistor is required within the cell. First a 0 state and 1 state are defined as open and closed circuits respectively between terminals and . When a positive voltage pulse in excess of V preferably resulting in greater than 90 saturation of the ferroelectric domain switching is applied to contact terminal and contact terminal and contact terminal are held at ground the ferroelectric layer and thus the capacitor subassembly is poled up positive and the cantilever subassembly including resilient layer and conductive layer displaces upward positive resulting in the write of a 1 state i.e. the direction of displacement derivative dd dV will be positive for subsequent positive applied read voltage as shown in . Reversing the write pulse polarity on contact terminal such that a negative voltage is applied between contact terminals and results in the write of a 0 state i.e. the direction of displacement derivative dd dV of the cantilever subassembly including resilient layer and conductive layer ferroelectric layer and conductive layer will be negative for subsequent positive applied read voltage below Vas shown in . The voltage and displacement versus time traces are shown in of for a series of 1 and 0 write operations. As shown in W and W occur via paths and increasing voltage respectively of . W and W occur via paths and decreasing voltage . Note in that negative displacement is shown for brief durations during the beginning of the W and W pulses and the shape of the negative displacement depends on the voltage ramp rate. It should be noted that the displacement versus voltage behavior is only valid for pulse lengths that are longer than the cantilever bending mode resonance frequency.

Referring now to in order to read the 0 or 1 memory state a unipolar positive voltage pulse that is below Vcan be applied to contact terminal while contact terminal is held at ground to cause bending of the cantilever subassembly including resilient layer and conductive layer ferroelectric layer and conductive layer . Simultaneously a voltage differential is applied between contact terminal and contact in order to produce no current flow when the switch is open i.e. no contact between conductive layer and contact layer or a current flow when the switch is closed the cantilever subassembly including resilient layer and conductive layer ferroelectric layer and conductive layer moves upward and contact occurs between conductive layer and contact layer . This read method will be called the low voltage read method. shows the case where a positive read voltage pulse is applied between contact terminal and contact and the 1 state is read for positive displacement i.e. the cantilever closes the switch gap and a 0 state is read for negative cantilever displacement i.e. the cantilever switch gap remains open. Applied input voltage and cantilever tip displacements for a read 1 and read 0 case are shown in . Assuming that capacitor A is pre charged to ground i.e both plates of the capacitor are grounded between each read operation the sensed output voltage measured on capacitor A will be determined by the charge flow from terminal to during the time of switch closure for the 1 state and zero or substantially zero for a 0 state. The sensed current flow from contact terminal to contact terminal will be zero for a 0 state and non zero for a 1 state. The data state stored in the preferred embodiment memory cell can therefore be determined at contact terminal by using a sense amplifier and charge integrating capacitor A or any device that senses voltage differentials or current flows. Alternatively if the converse piezoelectric drive voltage is properly scaled the voltage at contact terminal could be routed directly to the memory output thus eliminating the need for sense amplifiers for the memory cell. The low voltage read method can use pulse write and read operations but it has the disadvantage that the read pulse is not executed at the same voltage as the write pulse. In addition the read pulse is likely to disturb the stored data 0 state because the voltage applied to the ferroelectric capacitor between contacts terminals and during the read operation could reverse some of the ferroelectric polarization therefore a data state rewrite operation following each read operation will be required in order to ensure data retention. Without a data state rewrite the low voltage read operation will likely cause depoling of the 0 state over multiple reads and therefore could cause the cantilever subassembly including resilient layer and conductive layer ferroelectric layer and conductive layer to not bend or displace in the downward direction resulting in an error in the read of the 0 state for some ferroelectric mechanical memory device designs. For some device alternate preferred embodiment designs such a 0 state read error could be offset with a double cantilever alternate preferred embodiment DS as shown in with the application of opposite or complementary poling of the two capacitors and read out of the differential between the two switches i.e. use of two preferred embodiment memory cells per memory bit. Otherwise the use of a rewrite operation is likely required for a single preferred embodiment memory cell per memory bit architecture.

In R and R show read operation for a 1 and 0 state single bit device respectively when the preferred embodiment is activated by applying a voltage between contacts terminals and and contact between conductive layer and contact layer is sensed by applying voltage between contacts and the capacitor A is pre charged to ground . is a top view schematic illustration depicting a preferred embodiment having a cantilever drive electrode connected to terminal that sources the read current or charge. It should be noted that is configured as a three contact terminal device having contacts terminals and similar to those shown in . Consequently the operation of the preferred embodiment described with respect to is the same as and the components elements are hereby incorporated herein by reference. is a top view schematic illustration depicting a preferred embodiment A having a separate conductive layers A and B that sources the read current. Note that is configured as a four terminal device having contacts terminals A and B. The resilient layer conductive layer conductive layer and ferroelectric layer positioned underneath conductive layer are identical to the embodiment of . The alternate preferred embodiment A shown in includes a conductive pad C electrically isolated from the conductive layer and conductive pad C is positioned to complete the circuit between contacts A and B when the conductive layer is raised. The contacts and are identical. The contacts terminals A and B are connected to the conductive layers A and B respectively that form a complete conductive layer when the cantilever subassembly comprising the conductive layers ferroelectric layer and resilient layer is displaced upward and the conductive pad C makes contact with both conductive layer A and conductive layer B. One of the terminals A is connected to a voltage current source and the remaining contact terminal B is connected to the sense capacitor A during the read operation. The 1 state and 0 state write operations for the four terminal alternate preferred embodiment A in are the same as the 1 state and 0 state write operations described in conjunction with for the three terminal preferred embodiment shown in and are herein incorporated by reference. The 1 state and 0 state read operation for the four terminal alternate preferred embodiment A differs from the three terminal preferred embodiment . During the read of the four terminal alternate preferred embodiment A shown in a unipolar positive voltage pulse that is below Vcan be applied to contact terminal while contact terminal is held at ground to cause bending of the cantilever subassembly position above resilient layer . Simultaneously a voltage differential is applied between contacts terminals A and B in order to produce no current flow when the switch is open and no contact occurs between conductive layer A conductive pad C and conductive layer B or a current flow when the switch is closed and contact occurs between conductive layer A contact pad C and conductive layer B. This read method of the four terminal alternate preferred embodiment A follows the low voltage read diagrams shown in . shows the case where a positive read voltage pulse is applied between contact terminal and contact terminal and the 1 state is read for positive displacement i.e. the cantilever subassembly positioned above resilient layer closes the switch gap between conductive layers and and a 0 state is read for negative cantilever displacement i.e. the cantilever switch gap remains open. Applied input voltage and cantilever tip displacements for a read 1 and read 0 case are shown in . Assuming that capacitor A is pre charged to ground between each read operation the sensed output voltage measured on capacitor A will be determined by the charge flow from terminal A to B during the time of switch closure for the 1 state and zero or substantially zero for a 0 state. The sensed current flow from contacts terminal A to B will be zero for a 0 state and non zero for a 1 state. The data state stored in the ferroelectric mechanical memory can therefore be determined at contact terminal B by using a sense amplifier and charge integrating capacitor A or any device that senses voltage differentials or current flows. is a schematic illustration of the alternate preferred embodiment shown in depicting the side view of the alternate preferred embodiment A having separate conductive layers A or B that sources the read current.

A second read method that can use read and write pulses of the same voltage magnitude greater than Vapplied to the ferroelectric capacitor is described in and can be applied to either the three terminal device or the four terminal device . If the voltage between contact terminal and contact terminal is increased to greater than Vand decreased at a controlled constant rate the time that the conductive layer contacts contact pad see is closed and the time of contact between conductive pad C and conductive layers A and B resulting in closure of contacts A and B shown in for a 0 state read will be smaller than the time for a 1 state read. For a three terminal device applying a second voltage between contact and contact and integrating the charge passed from contact terminal to contact terminal during the read cycle i.e. during the time that voltage is applied between contact terminal and contact terminal the sensed integrated charge flow from contact terminal to contact terminal will be lower for a 0 state than for a 1 state. The difference between the read 0 state and 1 state signal voltage by integrating the charge flow from contact terminal to contact terminal on a capacitor A will be smaller for this ramped voltage pulsing method than with the low voltage read method described above . For a four terminal device such as the alternate preferred embodiment A applying a second voltage between contact terminals A and B and integrating the charge passed from contact terminal A to contact terminal B during the read cycle i.e. during the time that voltage is applied between contact terminal and contact terminal the sensed integrated charge flow from contact terminal A to contact terminal B will be lower for a 0 state than for a 1 state. The difference between the read 0 state and 1 state signal voltage by integrating the charge flow from contact terminal A to B on a capacitor A will be smaller for this ramped voltage pulsing method than with the low voltage read method described above . It is likely that the ramped voltage pulsing read will make the ferroelectric capacitor less susceptible to long term degradation mechanisms such as fatigue. Since this unipolar ramped voltage pulse read is a destructive read of the memory state a rewrite of the initial memory state is required subsequent to the read cycle. The rewrite of the initial memory state can be completed by using the pulses shown in or by replacing the pulses in B with ramped voltage pulses like those used for the read operation depicted in .

In voltage applied between contact terminal and contact terminal of a three terminal preferred embodiment memory cell is ramped positive to execute a read and the ramp rate determines contact time between and for the 1 bit state. For the 0 bit state the contact time is smaller than the 1 state because the cantilever subassembly comprising the conductive layers ferroelectric layer and resilient layer first bends open and remains open until the voltage applied between contact terminal and contact terminal becomes sufficiently large to cause the cantilever subassembly comprising the conductive layers ferroelectric layer and resilient layer to bend upward and close the contact between conductive layer and contact layer . In voltage applied between contact terminal and contact terminal of a four terminal alternate preferred embodiment A is ramped positive to execute a read and the ramp rate determines contact time between contact terminal A conductive layer A conductive pad C conductive layer B and contact terminal B for the 1 bit state. For the 0 bit state the contact time is smaller than the 1 state because the cantilever subassembly comprising the conductive layers ferroelectric layer and resilient layer first bends open and remains open until the voltage applied between contact terminals and becomes sufficiently large to cause the cantilever subassembly comprising the conductive layers ferroelectric layer and resilient layer to bend upward and close the contact between conductive layer A conductive pad C and conductive layer B. With this technique consideration of shunting methods may be desirable.

It should be noted that the direction of the cantilever subassembly displacement with respect to the applied ferroelectric capacitor voltage can be reversed by altering the neutral plane of zero stress within the cantilever structure. This can be advantageous depending on whether there is an initial curvature of the cantilever post processing and whether it is desired that the switch is in the open or closed state with an applied voltage that results in saturation of the ferroelectric capacitor.

Note that depicting preferred embodiment A NC split contacts normally closed is configured as a four terminal embodiment having contacts terminals A and B. The terminals A and B are connected to the conductive layers A and B respectively that form a complete conductive layer when the cantilever is upward in the normally closed position and the conductive pad C makes contact with both conductive layers A and B. One of the contact terminals A may be connected to a voltage current source and the remaining contact terminal B may be connected to a sense capacitor during the read operation.

Shown in is an alternate preferred embodiment having a base with a cavity . Positioned within the cavity is a ferroelectric capacitor comprising conductors and with a ferroelectric layer positioned therebetween. Conductor extends above the ferroelectric capacitor in a normally open position i.e. no contact between conductors and . External terminals and are connected to conductors and respectively. As to the operation of the device shown schematically in bits 1 and 0 may be written by poling positive or negative by applying voltage between terminals and as described with regard to with the exception that voltage polarity is reversed for writing a 1 state and a 0 state i.e. a 1 state is written with a positive voltage applied to the top electrode and is connect to ground and the 0 state is written with a negative voltage applied to while is connected to ground. The read operation can be conducted by applying positive voltage between and to cause displacement thickness expansion of the ferroelectric as described with regard to or . During the 1 state read the ferroelectric layer expands in thickness and contact is made between and such that current flows between terminals and . During the 0 state read the ferroelectric layer contracts in thickness and no contact is made between and such that no current flows between terminals and . Note that is configured as a three terminal device.

Shown in is an alternate preferred embodiment having a base with a cavity . Positioned within the cavity is a ferroelectric capacitor comprising conductors and with a ferroelectric layer positioned therebetween. Conductor is a strain sensitive conductor in contact with insulating layer A which covers conductor . Conductor A and B are on top of strain sensitive conductor and conductors A and B are separated and covered by an electrically insulating layer . External contacts terminals and are connected to conductors B and A respectively. When the device is not activated and no voltage is applied to the terminals the strain sensitive conductor is in an insulating or low conductivity state and the conductivity between conductors B and A is low. When voltage is applied to the ferroelectric capacitor such that the thickness of the ferroelectric layer expands strain sensitive conductor is compressed and the conductivity increases allowing substantial conduction between conductors B and A. As to the operation of the device shown schematically in bits 1 and 0 may be written by poling positive or negative by applying voltage between terminals and as described with regard to with the exception that voltage polarity is reversed for writing a 1 state and a 0 state i.e. a 1 state is written with a positive voltage applied to the top electrode and is connect to ground and the 0 state is written with a negative voltage applied to while is connected to ground. The read operation can be conducted by applying positive voltage between terminals and to cause displacement thickness expansion of the ferroelectric as described with regard to or . During the 1 state read the ferroelectric layer expands in thickness and conduction is increased in allowing substantial current flow between A and B such that current flows between terminals and . During the 0 state read the ferroelectric layer contracts in thickness layer remains in a low conductivity or insulating state and only a low current can flow between A and B such that only a low current flows between terminals and . Note that is configured as a four terminal device.

A preferred embodiment A three terminal device that incorporates a strain sensitive conduction layer is shown in . The device write and read operation is the same as that described for the device shown in . The like number elements of preferred embodiment A refer to the same numbered components of preferred embodiment . Preferred embodiment A adds a strain sensitive conductor .

A design for a four terminal preferred embodiment A that incorporates an actuator stack positioned in a cavity is shown in . The device write and read operation is the same as that described for the preferred embodiment shown in . The like number elements of preferred embodiment A refer to the same numbered components of preferred embodiment . Preferred embodiment A does not have a strain sensitive conductor or insulating layer A. Instead the conductor completes the circuit between elements A and B upon activation of the ferroelectric capacitor .

In MEMS memory cells the opening between the contacts can be replaced with a material that exhibits a change in electrical conductivity with strain. When the ferroelectric is driven through the strain hysteresis the strain sensitive conducting material will change its level of conductivity and the non volatile strain states of the ferroelectric will provide non volatile conductivity states in the conductor. This will allow the occurrence of non volatile on and off states for the memory cell. The strain sensitive conductor could be a Mott metal piezo resistive material conducting polymer conducting liquid etc.

The scope of the present invention encompasses many types of configuration cell architectures and read write operation modes for the ferroelectric mechanical memory. It should be considered that the scope of the invention covers all these possibilities since the basic concept of using a cantilever or other type of MEMS devices in combination with the mechanical displacement of a switchable ferroelectric capacitor is central to all variations of the device that is used for a memory bit storage device. Some of the varieties of devices that incorporate a cantilever in the normally open and normally closed states as well as the use of single and dual contact switches are shown schematically in the foregoing. The bit cells can be arranged in an array like those commonly found in integrated circuit memory devices including driver circuits input output MUX DEMUX redundancy error correction and any other circuit blocks used in state of the art memory devices. Since the ferroelectric mechanical memory bit cell is non volatile it does not use a transistor and it can be used to make transistor free non volatile logic devices. The present invention comprises memory and non volatile logic blocks on the same chip by using the similar basic ferroelectric mechanical memory cells described in the foregoing.

As used herein the term nonvolatile means that the memory cell will retain data even if there is a break in the power supply.

Obviously many modifications and variations of the present invention are possible in light of the above teachings. It is therefore to be understood that within the scope of the appended claims the invention many be practiced otherwise than as specifically described.

