---

title: Generating graphical representations of event participation flow
abstract: A system comprising a computer-readable storage medium storing at least one program and a method for generating graphical representations of event participation flows are presented. In example embodiments, the method includes receiving a subject event identifier entered as user input via a user interface. The method further includes accessing event data including a plurality of event data records that include an event record corresponding to the subject event identifier. The event record includes a set of participant identifiers corresponding to participants of a subject event identified by the subject event identifier. The method further includes determining an event participation flow for the participants of the subject event using the event data, and causing presentation of a graphical representation of the event participation flow in the user interface.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09424669&OS=09424669&RS=09424669
owner: Palantir Technologies Inc.
number: 09424669
owner_city: Palo Alto
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20151120
---
The present application claims the benefit of priority of U.S. Provisional Application No. 62 244 585 filed on Oct. 21 2015 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

The subject matter disclosed herein relates to computer graphics generation and processing. In particular example embodiments relate to systems and methods for generating graphical representations of event participation flows for presentation by an electronic visual display.

Conventional flow diagrams are useful in representing structure and flow in a complex system or network. Typical flow diagrams illustrate an order of interactions e.g. data transfers between components or participants in the system or network. In this way typical flow charts are suitable for illustrating event flow participation of a single participant engaged in a sequence of events over a certain period of time. However typical flow diagrams fail to convey information regarding quantitative distribution of values involved in the interactions between components. Thus while typical flow diagrams are useful in illustrating an event flow of a single participant typical flow diagrams are not suitable to illustrate event flows of a group of participants engaged in multiple concurrent events. For example though a typical flow chart may be suitable to illustrate a sequence of television shows viewed by a single viewer over a certain time period a single typical flow chart would be unable to suitably illustrate an aggregate sequence of television shows viewed by a group of viewers over the same time period because the group of viewers are likely to be watching multiple different television shows during the same blocks of time. Additionally although information regarding the individual participation of individual participants may be maintained in sources such as tables of numerical data deriving an aggregate event flow of all such users from such sources can be difficult due to challenges involved in analyzing and understanding a bulk set of raw numerical data.

Reference will now be made in detail to specific example embodiments for carrying out the inventive subject matter. Examples of these specific embodiments are illustrated in the accompanying drawings and specific details are set forth in the following description in order to provide a thorough understanding of the subject matter. It will be understood that these examples are not intended to limit the scope of the claims to the illustrated embodiments. On the contrary they are intended to cover such alternatives modifications and equivalents as may be included within the scope of the disclosure.

Aspects of the present disclosure relate to systems and methods for generating graphical representations of event participation flows. An event participation flow includes a flow of participants of a subject event between events before and after the subject event. Accordingly each event participation flow may include preceding events which are events participated in by the participants prior to the subject event and subsequent events which are events participated in by the participants after the subject event.

Additional aspects of the present disclosure involve providing user interfaces to present graphical representations of event participation flows. The user interfaces include graphical elements representing events in the event participation flow and the relationships between each event. More specifically the relationships illustrated in the graphical representations of event participation flows illustrate how participants transition between events and in what quantity. Accordingly the graphical representations of event participation flows include indications of a number of participants for each event an order of participation and a number of participants that transition from participating in one event to another event.

Using interactive elements included in the user interface a user may filter the graphical representations of event participation flows according to event category event attributes or participant attributes. The user interface includes other elements that allow users to group elements according to category such that the graphical representation is updated to illustrate the flow of participation between event categories. Additionally the users may specify a secondary event in order to analyze the event participation flows of a subset of participants in the subject event that also participated in the secondary event.

As an example of the forgoing the events included in event participation flows may correspond to content programming e.g. a broadcast program or television program which is also known as a TV show in common parlance and the participants of the event correspond to views of the content programming. The event participation flows provided according to this example illustrate a transition of viewers between content programs. In this example event categories by which a user may filter the graphical representations correspond to channels that broadcast individual content programs. In this way users may visualize how viewers transition between programming provided by different channels. Further in this example the event attributes include a start and end time of broadcast of the programs and the participant attributes include demographic information such as viewer s age gender location marital status income level. employment status and the like.

As another example the events included in event participation flows may correspond to a purchase of a product and the participants of the event correspond to consumers who purchased the product. The event participation flows provided according to this example illustrate a sequence of purchases made by a group of consumers. As a more concrete example the products may be insurance and the event participation flows may include a sequence of insurance product purchases such as a purchase of car insurance followed by a purchase of fire insurance and then followed by a purchase of life insurance.

As yet another example the events included in event participation flows may correspond to content viewed via web pages and the participants of the event may correspond to viewers of the content. In this way the event participation flows may be used to illustrate users navigational flow through web pages or content of a web site or network.

As shown the network system includes a client device in communication with a data processing platform over a network . The data processing platform communicates and exchanges data with the client device that pertains to various functions and aspects associated with the network system and its users. Likewise the client device which may be any of a variety of types of devices that include at least a display a processor and communication capabilities that provide access to the network e.g. a smart phone a tablet computer a personal digital assistant PDA a personal navigation device PND a handheld computer a desktop computer a laptop or netbook or a wearable computing device and may be operated by a user e.g. a person of the network system to exchange data with the data processing platform over the network .

The client device communicates with the network via a wired or wireless connection. For example one or more portions of the network may comprise an ad hoc network an intranet an extranet a Virtual Private Network VPN a Local Area Network LAN a wireless LAN WLAN a Wide Area Network WAN a wireless WAN WWAN a Metropolitan Area Network MAN a portion of the Internet a portion of the Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN a cellular telephone network a wireless network a Wireless Fidelity Wi Fi network a Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WiMax network another type of network or any suitable combination thereof.

In various embodiments the data exchanged between the client device and the data processing platform involve user selected functions available through one or more user interfaces UIs . The UIs may be specifically associated with a web client e.g. a browser or an application executing on the client device and in communication with the data processing platform .

Turning specifically to the data processing platform a web server is coupled to e.g. via wired or wireless interfaces and provides web interfaces to an application server . The application server hosts one or more applications e.g. web applications that allow users to use various functions and services of the data processing platform . For example the application server may host an event participation flow visualization system that is used to generate and present graphical representations of event participation flows. In some embodiments the event participation flow visualization system runs and executes on the application server while in other embodiments the application server provides the client device with a set of instructions e.g. computer readable code that causes the web client of the client device to execute and run the event participation flow visualization system .

The event participation flow visualization system analyzes data to determine a flow of participation in events by participants of a subject event. The subject event is user specified and serves as a subject for the participation flow visualization. An event participation flow represents the transition of participation by participants between multiple events. The event participation flow includes an aggregate of individual participation flows of the participants in the subject event. Each individual participation flow includes an event sequence of the participants that includes the subject event one or more preceding events and one or more subsequent events. Accordingly the aggregate of individual event sequences also referred to as aggregate event sequence represents an overall participation flow of the participants as it includes events participated in by the participants prior to participation in the subject event e.g. preceding events as well as events participated in by the participants subsequent to participation in the subject event.

Upon determining the participation flow of the participants of the subject event the event participation flow visualization system generates a graphical representation thereof. The event participation flow visualization system transmits instructions to the client device that cause the device to present a user interface for viewing and interacting with the graphical representation of the participation flow. As an example of the interactions provided by the user interface users may filter the information displayed according to event category such that only events of a certain category are displayed by event attributes such that only events with certain attributes are displayed or by participant attributes such that only participants with certain attributes are included in the represented participation flow.

Further users may specify an additional event for visualization along with the subject event. In response to a user specifying an additional event the event participation flow visualization system generates and causes presentation of the relationship between the subject event and the additional event that includes the sequence of the events along with other preceding and subsequent events participated in by the participants of the subject event and additional event.

The data analyzed by the event participation flow visualization system includes event data that comprises a plurality of event data records. Each event data record includes information about an event. For example each event data record includes an event identifier e.g. a name event attributes e.g. event category start time and end time and a list of event participant identifiers. The event data is linked to participant data including one or more participant data records. The participant data records include information about event participants. For example each participant data record includes a participant identifier and participant attributes describing characteristics of event participants. Participant attributes may relate to demographic data and accordingly may include participant gender age location information e.g. hometown or current location income level employment history or education history. Depending on the embodiment the participant attributes may further include any one of the following a type of contract or service plan the participant has with a particular company an effective date of the contract or service plan an average bill amount an aggregate amount billed over a particular time period a credit score and a type of home e.g. apartment or single family home .

Data analyzed by the event participation flow visualization system e.g. event data and participant data is obtained from a third party computing system and in particular a third party database communicatively coupled to the third party computing system . The data may be routinely automatically retrieved e.g. nightly by the event participation flow visualization system or manually provided by a user of the third party computing system or the client device for subsequent processing and analysis by the event participation flow visualization system .

The data obtained from the third party computing system is stored in a database which is a machine readable storage medium that is communicatively coupled to the application server e.g. via wired or wireless interfaces over the network . The data processing platform may further include a database server not shown that facilitates access to the database . The database may include multiple databases that may be internal or external to the data processing platform .

The event participation flow visualization system is shown as including an interface module a data retrieval module a data analysis module a visualization engine and a filter module all configured to communicate with each other e.g. via a bus shared memory a switch or application programming interfaces APIs . The aforementioned modules of the event participation flow visualization system may furthermore access the database and each of the modules may access one or more computer readable storage media of the client device .

The interface module receives requests from various client devices and communicates appropriate responses to the requesting client devices. The interface module provides a number of interfaces e.g. APIs or user interfaces that are presented by the client device that allow data to be received by the event participation flow visualization system . For example the interface module may receive requests from client devices in the form of Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP requests API requests or other web based requests.

The interface module also provides user interfaces that include graphical representations of event participation flows. The interface module also receives and processes user input received through such user interfaces. An example of the user interfaces provided by the interface module is discussed below in reference to .

The data retrieval module is configured to retrieve data for processing and analysis. For example the data retrieval module obtains event data comprising a plurality of event data records. In some embodiments the data retrieval module retrieves such data from the third party database of the third party computing system through appropriate requests e.g. API requests or calls transmitted over the network . The data may be retrieved by the data retrieval module on a periodic basis e.g. nightly . In some embodiments the data retrieval module obtains data from a location specified by a user e.g. via a user interface provided by the interface module .

The data analysis module is configured to analyze data to determine event participation flows for participants of a subject event. The event participation flows represent a transition of participation between the subject event and multiple other events. Accordingly an event participation flow includes the subject event one or more preceding events one or more subsequent events and a flow quantity between each event. The subject event is specified by user input and the participants of the subject event are identified based on information included in an event data record corresponding to the subject event. Preceding events are events in which one or more participants participated in prior to participating in the subject event. Subsequent events are events in which one or more participants participated in subsequent to participating in the subject event. The flow quantity between two events refers to a number of weighted or unweighted participants that transition from participating in one event to participating in another event.

The event participation flow is determined based on an aggregate of individual event sequences of each participant in the subject event. Accordingly in determining the event participation flow of a set of participants the data analysis module determines an event sequence of each participant in the set. The event sequence is a sequence of events participated in by the same participant that includes the subject event. The data analysis module determines the event participation flow of the set of participants by performing operations including identifying preceding events and subsequent events attended by at least one participant of the subject event. In some instances the data analysis module may determine that a participant did not participate in an event prior to the subject event or that the participant did not participate in an event subsequent to the subject event.

The data analysis module determines the preceding and subsequent events associated with each participant using a combination of information including event data e.g. the list of participant identifiers for the event and participant data e.g. data regarding events participated in by the participants . For example the data analysis module may access participant data of the participants of the subject event that indicates the events participated in by each participant and is also linked to event data corresponding to these events. By cross referencing the participant data and the event data the data analysis module identifies preceding and subsequent events in which each participant has participated.

The data analysis module further determines a participation quantity e.g. a number of participants for each identified preceding and subsequent event by summing a total number of participants associated with each respective event. The data analysis module then determines flow quantities between each preceding event and the subject event and between the subject event and each subsequent event. The data analysis module determines the flow quantity between two events by determining the overlap of participants between the two events.

The visualization engine is configured to generate graphical representations of the event participation flows determined by the data analysis module . The graphical representation of the event participation flows are presented in interfaces generated by the interface module . Each graphical representation includes graphical elements representing the subject events preceding events subsequent events and the participation flows between each event. The participation flows are represented by connector elements and a width of each connector element is proportional to a flow quantity e.g. the number of participants that transitioned from participation in a first event to participation in a second event .

The user interfaces in which the graphical representations are presented include interactive elements that facilitate interaction of users with the graphical representations. For example using an interactive element in the user interface a user may specify one or more filters for the graphical representation. The filter module is configured to filter the graphical representation of event participation flows according to the user filter selections. The filtering of the graphical representation of the event participation flows may include removing or modifying one or more graphical elements. The filter selections may for example include category filters that specify a particular category of event event attribute filters that specify a particular event attribute e.g. events with a particular start time or participant attributes that specify a particular participant attribute e.g. an age range .

A participant table includes a plurality of participant data records. The participant data records include information about event participants such as a participant identifier a list of events in which the participant participated and participant attributes describing characteristics of event participants. Participant attributes may for example relate to demographic data and accordingly may include participant gender age location information e.g. hometown or current location employment history or education history. Each event record in the event table is linked to one or more participant records within the participant table so as to associate a particular event with the data records of its participants. Participant data records in the participant table are indexed by participant identifier. Further each participant data record in the participant table may be linked to one or more event records within the event table so as to associate a particular participant with the data records of events in which they have participated.

At operation the interface module receives a subject event identifier. The subject event identifier which identifies a subject event is received via user input entered into a user interface provided by the interface module and displayed on the client device . The subject event identifier may be specified by the user by inputting text in a text input field of the user interface by selecting the event identifier from a drop down menu or similar interface element that includes a list of subject event identifiers or by selecting a graphical element from an existing graphical representation of an event participation flow.

At operation the data analysis module accesses event data from the database . In some other embodiments the data analysis module accesses the event data from a location specified by the user such as a local data repository of the client device . The event data includes a plurality of event data records including an event data record corresponding to the subject event. Each event data record includes an event identifier event attributes e.g. start time and end time and a list of participant identifiers corresponding to participants of the event.

At operation the data analysis module determines an event participation flow for the list of participant identifiers of the subject event using the event data. The event participation flow includes the subject event one or more preceding events one or more subsequent events and a flow quantity between each event. The event participation flow is determined by aggregating individual event sequences of each participant in the subject event. Accordingly the event participation flow includes a flow quantity from each preceding event to the subject event and a flow quantity from the subject event to each subsequent event. Further details regarding the determination of the aggregate event sequence are discussed below in reference to according to some example embodiments.

At operation the visualization engine generates a graphical representation of the event participation flow of the participants of the subject event. The graphical representation of the event participation flow includes a plurality of graphical elements e.g. blocks representing the subject event preceding events subsequent events and the flow quantity of participants between the events. Each graphical element representing an event may include an indication of the number of participants for the event a number of participants that participated in the event without participating in a preceding event and a number of participants that participated in the event without participating in a subsequent event. In some instances the number of participants in an event may be represented by a size of the graphical element representing the event. The flow of participants between events e.g. flow from preceding event to subject event or subject event to subsequent event are represented by connector elements e.g. arrows and the width of each connector element corresponds to the flow quantity of participants that have transitioned from one event to another.

At operation the interface module causes the presentation of a user interface that includes the graphical representation of the event participation flow of the participants of the subject event. For example the interface module provides the client device with instructions that cause the client device to present the user interface. The user interface used for displaying the graphical representation of the aggregate event sequence may in some embodiments be the same as the user interface for receiving the subject event identifier. In this manner from the prospective of a user once the subject event identifier is input into one portion of the user interface the graphical representation of the event participation flow is then automatically displayed in another portion of the user interface. Further the user may interact with the graphical representation of the event participation flow through interaction with elements of the user interface. For example the user may select e.g. by clicking on one of the graphical elements representing a preceding or subsequent event to make that event the subject event and in response the method is repeated for the newly selected subject event.

As another example of the interaction provided by the user interface displaying the graphical representation of the event participation flow the user may specify a secondary event in order to examine its relationship e.g. the participation flow with the subject event. is a flowchart illustrating a method for generating a graphical representation of event participation flow involving a subject event and a secondary event according to some embodiments. The method may be initiated subsequent to the completion of method . The method is embodied in computer readable instructions for execution by one or more processors such that the operations of the method is performed in part or in whole by the application server . In particular the operations of the method is performed in part or in whole by the event participation flow visualization system accordingly the method is described below by way of example with reference thereto. However it shall be appreciated that at least some of the operations of the method may be deployed on various other hardware configurations and the method is not intended to be limited to the application server or the event participation flow visualization system .

At operation the interface module receives a secondary event identifier identifying a secondary event for analysis along with the subject event. As with the subject event identifier the secondary event identifier is received via user input entered into a user interface provided by the interface module and displayed on the client device . The secondary event identifier may be specified by the user by inputting text in a text input field of the user interface by selecting the event identifier from a drop down menu or similar interface element that includes a list of subject event identifiers or by selecting a graphical element from an existing graphical representation of an event participation flow.

At operation the data analysis module determines a subset of participants in the subject event that also participated in the secondary event. The data analysis module determines the subset of participants based on the event data. More specifically the data analysis module determines the subset of participants by comparing the list of participant identifiers included in the event data record corresponding to the subject event with the list of participant identifiers included in the event data record corresponding to the secondary event.

At operation the data analysis module determines a focused event participation flow involving the subset of participants of the subject event that also participated in the secondary event. The determining of the focused event participation flow by the data analysis module includes determining one or more preceding events participated in by at least one participant of the subset of participants determining one or more subsequent events participated in by at least one participant of the subset of participants determining a total number of participants for each of the preceding and subsequent events and determining a flow quantity between each preceding event and the subject event and between the subject event and each subsequent event.

At operation the visualization engine generates the graphical representation of the focused event participation flow that includes the subject event and the secondary event. The graphical representation of the event participation flow includes graphical representations of the subject event and graphical elements representing the one or more preceding events or the one or more subsequent events. The graphical representation further includes connecter elements illustrating the flow of participation between each event and the width of each connector element represents the flow quantity.

At operation the interface module causes presentation of the graphical representation of the focused event participation flow that includes the subject event and the secondary event. For example the interface module transmits instructions to the client device that cause the client device to display a user interface including the graphical representation.

As yet another example of the interaction provided by the user interface displaying the graphical representation of the event participation flow the user may select one or more filters to reduce the elements displayed in the graphical representation to a particular subset of elements. is a flowchart illustrating a method for filtering graphical representations of an event participation flow according to some embodiments. The method is initiated subsequent to the completion of method . The method is embodied in computer readable instructions for execution by one or more processors such that the operations of the method is performed in part or in whole by the application server . In particular the operations of the method is performed in part or in whole by the event participation flow visualization system accordingly the method is described below by way of example with reference thereto. However it shall be appreciated that at least some of the operations of the method may be deployed on various other hardware configurations and the method is not intended to be limited to the application server or the event participation flow visualization system .

At operation the interface module receives a filter selection entered as user input into the user interface displaying the graphical representation of the event participation flow. The filter may be selected from a drop down menu check box or other such interactive element included in the user interface. The filter selection may for example be a category filter specifying an event category a participant filter specifying a participant attribute or an event attribute filter specifying an event attribute.

At operation the filter module filters the graphical representation of the event participation flow according to the received filter selection. The filter of the graphical representation includes removing or modifying one or more graphical elements in accordance with the filter selection. For example when the filter selection is an event category the filter module filters the graphical representation of the aggregate event sequence to include a subset of the graphical elements that correspond to representations of events in the event category. When the filter selection is a participant filter the filter module works in conjunction with the visualization engine to update the graphical representation such that only participants having the specified participant attribute are included in the aggregate event sequence. When the filter selection is an event attribute filter the filter module filters the graphical representation of the event participation flow to include a subset of the graphical elements that correspond to representations of events having the event attribute.

At operation the data analysis module identifies a set of participants for the subject event. The subject event corresponds to a received subject event identifier e.g. the received subject event identifier discussed above in reference to operation of method . The data analysis module identifies the set of participants for the subject event by accessing the event data record of the subject event which includes a list of participant identifiers for the subject event.

At operation the data analysis module determines preceding events participated in by at least one participant of the subject event. A preceding event is an event participated in by a participant prior to participating in the subject event. At operation the data analysis module determines subsequent events participated in by at least one participant of the subject event. A subsequent event is an event participated in by a participant subsequent to participating in the subject event. The data analysis module determines the preceding and subsequent events using a combination of information including event data records e.g. the list of participant identifiers for the event and participant data records e.g. events participated in by the participants . For example the data analysis module may access participant data records corresponding to the list of participant identifiers for the subject event. Each of the accessed participant data records indicates the events participated in by the participant and is linked to the event data records corresponding to these events. Using the start and end time event attributes of each event data record attended by an individual participant the data analysis module identifies preceding and subsequent events in which the individual participant participated. In some instances the data analysis module may determine that one or more participants of the subject event did not participate in an event prior to the subject event or that one or more participants did not participate in an event subsequent to the subject event.

At operation the data analysis module determines a participation quantity e.g. a number of participants for each preceding and subsequent event identified at operations and respectively. The participation quantity of the preceding and subsequent events is determined by summing a total number of participants associated with each respective event.

At operation the data analysis module determines flow quantities between each preceding event and the subject event and between the subject event and each subsequent event. The data analysis module determines the flow quantity between each preceding and subsequent event and the subject event by calculating a sum of participants of the subject event that also participated in the respective preceding or subsequent event.

As shown the graphical representation of the event flow participation includes the graphical element that represents the subject event. The graphical element includes textual information about the event including an event title information describing attributes of the event a number of participants in the subject event a number of participants in the event that did not participate in an event prior to the subject event illustrated in as tune in percentage and a number of participants that did not participate in an event subsequent to the subject event illustrated in as drop off percentage . Additionally the size of the graphical element relative to the other elements in the graphical representation indicates the number of participants in the event.

The graphical representation of the event flow participation further includes graphical elements that represent preceding events which are events participated in by the participants of the subject event prior to participating in the subject event. For example graphical element represents Preceding Event 1. 

The graphical representation of the event flow participation further includes graphical elements that represent subsequent events which are events participated in by the participants of the subject event subsequent to participating in the subject event. For example graphical element represents Subsequent Event 1. Each of the graphical elements representing an event may include textual information about the event including for example an event title event attributes and a number of participants in the event. Additionally the graphical elements representing events may be color coded according to the event category to which they belong.

The graphical elements representing events also include a textual indication of a percentage of participants in the subject event that are represented by the participants of the event the graphical element represents. Further the size of each of the graphical elements relative to the size of the graphical element represent the percentage of participants in the subject event that participated in the event the graphical element represents.

The graphical elements representing the preceding events are connected to the graphical element representing the subject event by connector elements and the graphical element representing the subject event is also connected to the graphical elements representing subsequent events by connector elements. For example graphical element is connected to graphical element by connector element and the graphical element is also connected to graphical element by a connector element . The connector elements represent the flow of participants between events. A width of each connector represents a flow quantity. The flow quantity may represent a number of weighted or unweighted participants.

In some instances a graphical element included in the graphical representation of event flow participation may represent multiple events. For example events having a number of participants below a predefined threshold may be grouped together into a single element and labeled other as is the case with graphical elements and illustrated in . The predefined threshold may be defined by a system administrator or specified by a user. As another example events may be grouped together according to category such that the graphical elements in the graphical representation of the event participation flow represent all events within the category the number of participants is the number of participants in events within the category and the connector elements represent flows between participants in the various event categories.

A user may specify a new subject event for event participation visualization by selecting another event from the list of events included in the drop down menu or through selection of one of the graphical elements representing a preceding or subsequent event. For example upon receiving a user selection of the graphical element e.g. by positioning the mouse cursor over the element and clicking it the event participation flow visualization system generates and causes presentation of a graphical representation of an updated event participation flow with the preceding event represented by the graphical element Preceding Event 1 as the subject event. is an interface diagram illustrating the user interface updated to display a graphical representation of different event participation flow. More specifically the graphical representation of the event participation flow illustrated in represents the flow of participation of participants in the event Preceding Event 1 that was previously represented by graphical element in . and is now the subject event of the visualization represented by graphical element .

By way of non limiting example the machine may comprise or correspond to a television a computer e.g. a server computer a client computer a personal computer PC a tablet computer a laptop computer or a netbook . a set top box STB a personal digital assistant PDA an entertainment media system e.g. an audio video receiver a cellular telephone a smart phone a mobile device a wearable device e.g. a smart watch a portable media player or any machine capable of outputting audio signals and capable of executing the instructions sequentially or otherwise that specify actions to be taken by machine . Further while only a single machine is illustrated the term machine shall also be taken to include a collection of machines that individually or jointly execute the instructions to perform any one or more of the methodologies discussed herein.

The machine may include processors memory storage unit and O components which may be configured to communicate with each other such as via a bus . In an example embodiment the processors e.g. a central processing unit CPU a reduced instruction set computing RISC processor a complex instruction set computing CISC processor a graphics processing unit GPU a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a radio frequency integrated circuit RFIC another processor or any suitable combination thereof may include for example processor and processor that may execute instructions . The term processor is intended to include multi core processors that may comprise two or more independent processors sometimes referred to as cores that may execute instructions contemporaneously. Although shows multiple processors the machine may include a single processor with a single core a single processor with multiple cores e.g. a multi core process multiple processors with a single core multiple processors with multiples cores or any combination thereof.

The memory e.g. a main memory or other memory storage and the storage unit are both accessible to the processors such as via the bus . The memory and the storage unit store the instructions embodying any one or more of the methodologies or functions described herein. In some embodiments the database resides on the storage unit . The instructions may also reside completely or partially within the memory within the storage unit within at least one of the processors e.g. within the processor s cache memory or any suitable combination thereof during execution thereof by the machine . Accordingly the memory the storage unit and the memory of processors are examples of machine readable media.

As used herein machine readable medium means a device able to store instructions and data temporarily or permanently and may include but is not be limited to random access memory RAM read only memory ROM buffer memory flash memory optical media magnetic media cache memory other types of storage e.g. erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM or any suitable combination thereof. The term machine readable medium should be taken to include a single medium or multiple media e.g. a centralized or distributed database or associated caches and servers able to store instructions . The term machine readable medium shall also be taken to include any medium or combination of multiple media that is capable of storing instructions e.g. instructions for execution by a machine e.g. machine such that the instructions when executed by one or more processors of the machine e.g. processors cause the machine to perform any one or more of the methodologies described herein e.g. method and . Accordingly a machine readable medium refers to a single storage apparatus or device as well as cloud based storage systems or storage networks that include multiple storage apparatus or devices. The term machine readable medium excludes signals per se.

Furthermore the machine readable medium is non transitory in that it does not embody a propagating signal. However labeling the tangible machine readable medium as non transitory should not be construed to mean that the medium is incapable of movement the medium should be considered as being transportable from one real world location to another. Additionally since the machine readable medium is tangible the medium may be considered to be a machine readable device.

The I O components may include a wide variety of components to receive input provide output produce output transmit information exchange information capture measurements and so on. The specific I O components that are included in a particular machine will depend on the type of machine. For example portable machines such as mobile phones will likely include a touch input device or other such input mechanisms while a headless server machine will likely not include such a touch input device. It will be appreciated that the I O components may include many other components that are not specifically shown in . The I O components are grouped according to functionality merely for simplifying the following discussion and the grouping is in no way limiting. In various example embodiments the I O components may include input components and output components . The input components may include alphanumeric input components e.g. a keyboard a touch screen configured to receive alphanumeric input a photo optical keyboard or other alphanumeric input components point based input components e.g. a mouse a touchpad a trackball a joystick a motion sensor or other pointing instrument tactile input components e.g. a physical button a touch screen that provides location and or force of touches or touch gestures or other tactile input components audio input components and the like. The output components may include visual components e.g. a display such as a plasma display panel PDP a light emitting diode LED display a liquid crystal display LCD a projector or a cathode ray tube CRT acoustic components e.g. speakers haptic components e.g. a vibratory motor resistance mechanisms other signal generators and so forth.

Communication may be implemented using a wide variety of technologies. The I O components may include communication components operable to couple the machine to a network or devices via coupling and coupling respectively. For example the communication components may include a network interface component or other suitable device to interface with the network . In further examples communication components may include wired communication components wireless communication components cellular communication components near field communication NFC components Bluetooth components e.g. Bluetooth Low Energy Wi Fi components and other communication components to provide communication via other modalities. The devices may be another machine or any of a wide variety of peripheral devices e.g. a peripheral device coupled via a Universal Serial Bus USB .

Certain embodiments are described herein as including logic or a number of components modules or mechanisms. Modules may constitute either software modules e.g. code embodied on a machine readable medium or in a transmission signal or hardware modules. A hardware module is a tangible unit capable of performing certain operations and may be configured or arranged in a certain manner. In example embodiments one or more computer systems e.g. a standalone client or server computer system or one or more hardware modules of a computer system e.g. a processor or a group of processors may be configured by software e.g. an application or application portion as a hardware module that operates to perform certain operations as described herein.

In various embodiments a hardware module may be implemented mechanically or electronically. For example a hardware module may comprise dedicated circuitry or logic that is permanently configured e.g. as a special purpose processor such as a field programmable gate array FPGA or an application specific integrated circuit ASIC to perform certain operations. A hardware module may also comprise programmable logic or circuitry e.g. as encompassed within a general purpose processor or other programmable processor that is temporarily configured by software to perform certain operations. It will be appreciated that the decision to implement a hardware module mechanically in dedicated and permanently configured circuitry or in temporarily configured circuitry e.g. configured by software may be driven by cost and time considerations.

Accordingly the term hardware module should be understood to encompass a tangible entity be that an entity that is physically constructed permanently configured e.g. hardwired or temporarily configured e.g. programmed to operate in a certain manner and or to perform certain operations described herein. Considering embodiments in which hardware modules are temporarily configured e.g. programmed each of the hardware modules need not be configured or instantiated at any one instance in time. For example where the hardware modules comprise a general purpose processor configured using software the general purpose processor may be configured as respective different hardware modules at different times. Software may accordingly configure a processor for example to constitute a particular hardware module at one instance of time and to constitute a different hardware module at a different instance of time.

Hardware modules can provide information to and receive information from other hardware modules. Accordingly the described hardware modules may be regarded as being communicatively coupled. Where multiple of such hardware modules exist contemporaneously communications may be achieved through signal transmission e.g. over appropriate circuits and buses that connect the hardware modules . In embodiments in which multiple hardware modules are configured or instantiated at different times communications between such hardware modules may be achieved for example through the storage and retrieval of information in memory structures to which the multiple hardware modules have access. For example one hardware module may perform an operation and store the output of that operation in a memory device to which it is communicatively coupled. A further hardware module may then at a later time access the memory device to retrieve and process the stored output. Hardware modules may also initiate communications with input or output devices and can operate on a resource e.g. a collection of information .

The various operations of example methods described herein may be performed at least partially by one or more processors that are temporarily configured e.g. by software or permanently configured to perform the relevant operations. Whether temporarily or permanently configured such processors may constitute processor implemented modules that operate to perform one or more operations or functions. The modules referred to herein may in some example embodiments comprise processor implemented modules.

Similarly the methods described herein may be at least partially processor implemented. For example at least some of the operations of a method may be performed by one or more processors or processor implemented modules. The performance of certain of the operations may be distributed among the one or more processors not only residing within a single machine but deployed across a number of machines. In some example embodiments the processor or processors may be located in a single location e.g. within a home environment an office environment or a server farm while in other embodiments the processors may be distributed across a number of locations.

The one or more processors may also operate to support performance of the relevant operations in a cloud computing environment or as a software as a service SaaS . For example at least some of the operations may be performed by a group of computers as examples of machines including processors with these operations being accessible via a network e.g. the Internet and via one or more appropriate interfaces e.g. APIs .

Example embodiments may be implemented in digital electronic circuitry or in computer hardware firmware or software or in combinations of them. Example embodiments may be implemented using a computer program product for example a computer program tangibly embodied in an information carrier for example in a machine readable medium for execution by or to control the operation of data processing apparatus for example a programmable processor a computer or multiple computers.

A computer program can be written in any form of programming language including compiled or interpreted languages and it can be deployed in any form including as a standalone program or as a module subroutine or other unit suitable for use in a computing environment. A computer program can be deployed to be executed on one computer or on multiple computers at one site or distributed across multiple sites and interconnected by a communication network.

In example embodiments operations may be performed by one or more programmable processors executing a computer program to perform functions by operating on input data and generating output. Method operations can also be performed by and apparatus of example embodiments may be implemented as special purpose logic circuitry e.g. an FPGA or an ASIC .

The computing system can include clients and servers. A client and server are generally remote from each other and typically interact through a communication network. The relationship of client and server arises by virtue of computer programs running on the respective computers and having a client server relationship to each other. In embodiments deploying a programmable computing system it will be appreciated that both hardware and software architectures merit consideration. Specifically it will be appreciated that the choice of whether to implement certain functionality in permanently configured hardware e.g. an ASIC in temporarily configured hardware e.g. a combination of software and a programmable processor or in a combination of permanently and temporarily configured hardware may be a design choice. Below are set out hardware e.g. machine and software architectures that may be deployed in various example embodiments.

Although the embodiments of the present invention have been described with reference to specific example embodiments it will be evident that various modifications and changes may be made to these embodiments without departing from the broader scope of the inventive subject matter. Accordingly the specification and drawings are to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense. The accompanying drawings that form a part hereof show by way of illustration and not of limitation specific embodiments in which the subject matter may be practiced. The embodiments illustrated are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice the teachings disclosed herein. Other embodiments may be used and derived therefrom such that structural and logical substitutions and changes may be made without departing from the scope of this disclosure. This Detailed Description therefore is not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of various embodiments is defined only by the appended claims along with the full range of equivalents to which such claims are entitled.

Such embodiments of the inventive subject matter may be referred to herein individually and or collectively by the term invention merely for convenience and without intending to voluntarily limit the scope of this application to any single invention or inventive concept if more than one is in fact disclosed. Thus although specific embodiments have been illustrated and described herein it should be appreciated that any arrangement calculated to achieve the same purpose may be substituted for the specific embodiments shown. This disclosure is intended to cover any and all adaptations or variations of various embodiments. Combinations of the above embodiments and other embodiments not specifically described herein will be apparent to those of skill in the art upon reviewing the above description.

All publications patents and patent documents referred to in this document are incorporated by reference herein in their entirety as though individually incorporated by reference. In the event of inconsistent usages between this document and those documents so incorporated by reference the usage in the incorporated references should be considered supplementary to that of this document for irreconcilable inconsistencies the usage in this document controls.

In this document the terms a or an are used as is common in patent documents to include one or more than one independent of any other instances or usages of at least one or one or more. In this document the term or is used to refer to a nonexclusive or such that A or B includes A but not B B but not A and A and B unless otherwise indicated. In the appended claims the terms including and in which are used as the plain English equivalents of the respective terms comprising and wherein. Also in the following claims the terms including and comprising are open ended that is a system device article or process that includes elements in addition to those listed after such a term in a claim are still deemed to fall within the scope of that claim.

