---

title: Information processing device, and method and non-transitory computer-readable recording medium for the same
abstract: An information processing device may display a first image indicating a storage area. The information processing device may display a second image in response to receiving a first specific operation performed on the first image. The information processing device may receive a second specific operation for selecting the second image. The information processing device may receive first path information in response to receiving the second specific operation The first path information may indicate a location of the storage area. The information processing device may send the first execution instruction to the image processing device, in the case that the second specific operation is received. The information processing device may receive scan data from the image processing device. The information processing device may store a data file of the received scan data in the storage area designated by the first path information.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09661159&OS=09661159&RS=09661159
owner: BROTHER KOGYO KABUSHIKI KAISHA
number: 09661159
owner_city: Nagoya-Shi, Aichi-Ken
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20150929
---
This application claims priority to Japanese Patent Application No. 2014 201478 filed on Sep. 30 2014 the contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference into the present application.

The technique disclosed in the present specification relates to a program and the like for storing scan data.

The following image data receipt method is known. When a user right clicks on a multifunction peripheral referred to as MFP icon being displayed on a display screen of a PC right click menus are displayed. When construct scan data receipt environment is selected from the right click menus the PC creates a transfer destination folder in a hard disk drive. The transfer destination folder is a shared folder that is shared on a network. The PC receives image data generated by an image reading device from the image reading device and stores the image data in the transfer destination folder.

There is a case in which users want to store the image data generated by the image reading device in a particular folder in the PC. However when the above mentioned technique is used it is necessary to move the image data stored in the transfer destination folder to the particular folder. Moreover even when the above mentioned technique is not used an operation of designating a particular folder as a storage destination of the image data is required. The present specification provides a technique capable of solving such an inconvenience.

In one aspect of the teachings disclosed herein a non transitory computer readable recording medium storing computer readable instructions for an information processing device may be provided. The information processing device may comprise a processor a display an input unit configured to receive various operation inputs a memory provided with a storage area for storing various types of data and a communication interface configured to connect to a network. The information processing device may be configured to communicate via the communication interface with an image processing device. The image processing device may be configured to perform a scan process of scanning a document and generating scan data. The computer readable instructions when executed by the processor may cause the information processing device to perform displaying a first image indicating the storage area on the display. The computer readable instructions may cause the information processing device to perform displaying a second image on the display in response to receiving a first specific operation in the input unit the first specific operation being performed on the first image. The computer readable instructions may cause the information processing device to perform receiving a second specific operation in the input unit the second specific operation being for selecting the second image. The computer readable instructions may cause the information processing device to perform receiving first path information in response to receiving the second specific operation the first path information indicating a location of the storage area. The computer readable instructions may cause the information processing device to perform sending a first execution instruction of the scan process to the image processing device via the communication interface in the case that the second specific operation is received in the input unit. The computer readable instructions may cause the information processing device to perform receiving scan data generated by the scan process from the image processing device. The computer readable instructions may cause the information processing device to perform storing a data file of the received scan data in the storage area designated by the first path information.

The information processing device and the access point can perform a wireless communication according to an infrastructure mode wireless LAN connection scheme. Moreover the MFP and the access point can perform a wireless communication according to an infrastructure mode wireless LAN connection scheme. Examples of the scheme of the wireless communications and include a communication scheme defined by the IEEE 802.11a b g standards.

The information processing device chiefly comprises a mouse a CPU referred to as Central Processing Unit a storage unit a wireless transmitting and receiving unit a wireless antenna unit a button input unit a panel and a coordinate detecting unit .

The wireless transmitting and receiving unit performs wireless communication which conforms to an infrastructure mode of the wireless LAN via the wireless antenna unit . The button input unit receives an operation by a user of the information processing device . An example of the button input unit is a keyboard.

The mouse is a device for inputting pointer position information selection instruction information menu display information and the like. The pointer position information is information indicating a moving direction or a moving amount of a pointer displayed on the panel . The pointer position information can be input by moving the mouse . The selection instruction information is information for giving an instruction to select an image corresponding to a display position of a pointer image. The selection instruction information can be input by a left click operation of clicking a left click button of the mouse . The menu display information is information for giving an instruction to display a menu image corresponding to a display position of a pointer image. The menu display information can be input by a right click operation of clicking a right click button of the mouse .

The panel displays a variety of function information of the information processing device . The coordinate detecting unit is a unit for detecting designated coordinates these being coordinates indicating a position where an indicator e.g. a fingertip of the user is in contact with or in proximity to a display area of the panel . By being formed integrally with the panel the coordinate detecting unit functions as a touchscreen . The touchscreen is a device for receiving the input such as selection instruction information or menu display information. The selection instruction information is information for giving an instruction to select an image corresponding to an instruction coordinate. The selection instruction information can be input by a tap operation of bringing a pointing tool into contact with the touchscreen for a short period. The menu display information is information for giving an instruction to display a menu image corresponding to an instruction coordinate. The menu display information can be input by a long press operation of bringing a pointing tool into contact with the touchscreen for a long period.

That is the information processing device is a device capable of receiving an input operation utilizing the two input systems the input system utilizing the mouse and the input system utilizing the touchscreen .

The CPU executes processing according to the program stored in the storage unit . In the ensuing explanation the CPU to execute programs such as the document creation application and the operating system is sometimes simply referred to by the program name. For example the indication of the operating system may mean the CPU that executes the the operating system

The storage unit is configured such that a RAM referred to as Random Access Memory a ROM referred to as Read Only Memory a flash memory an HDD referred to as hard disk drive and a buffer provided in the CPU etc. are combined. The storage unit stores a program . The program includes an operating system e a driver program a scan control program a MFP control program and a file tree display program . The respective programs the driver program to the file tree display program can be used by being installed in the information processing device by a user. Moreover the storage unit stores a registry an information processing table a scan setting storage area and a file storage area .

The operating system hereinafter sometimes referred to as an OS is a program that provides a function of displaying various images on the panel and basic functions which are used in common to the respective programs the driver program to the file tree display program . Further the operating system is also a program that provides an API referred to as Application Programming Interface for the applications to provide instructions to various types of hardware. In the present specification a case will be described in which Windows 8 registered trademark of Microsoft Corporation is utilized as the operating system

The driver program is a program for controlling the MFP . The scan control program is a program for controlling a scan process of the MFP . Due to the scan control program it is possible to exchange various types of data for example scan data generated by the scan process related to the scan process with the MFP . The scan control program is a program that can be activated via a menu screen displayed by a right click operation which will be described later. The MFP control program is a program for changing various settings of the MFP and allowing the MFP to execute various functions. The file tree display program is a program for displaying various data files stored in the file storage area in a tree structure.

The registry is a database that stores setting data of various programs such as the operating system or the driver program to the file tree display program . When the scan control program is installed in the information processing device the registry key of the scan control program is added to the registry . Specifically the path of the scan control program is added to the command data of the registry . In this way an activation reception image N for receiving the input of an instruction to activate the scan control program can be added to a right click menu image see displayed in S described later .

The file storage area is an area in which various data files are stored. The file storage area has a layered file structure which is a structure that stores data files using a plurality of folders. Each of the plurality of folders can store a sub folder which is a lower layer folder and various data files.

The image data file stored in the file storage area may have a first format or a second format. The first format is a format to which various types of metadata can be appended. Examples of the first format include JPEG TIFF PDF and the like. The second format is a format to which various types of metadata cannot be appended. Examples of the second format include bitmap. An example of metadata includes processing information indicating the content of image processing for example color correction or trimming performed on the image data file itself.

The information processing table is an area in which processing information and the image data file having the second format are stored in correlation. The processing information of an image data file on which image processing has not been executed is not stored in the information processing table . The processing information is information indicating the content of image processing executed on an image data file having the second format. Examples of image processing include color correction inclination correction trimming or the like.

The scan setting storage area is an area in which a default scan setting value of the scan control program and a default scan setting value of the MFP control program are stored. The default scan setting value may be set in advance by a user. The default scan setting value may include resolution the number of colors an image format an image size and the like.

The operation of the OS according to the present embodiment will be described with reference to the flowchart of . When a user inputs an operation of activating the information processing device via the button input unit the CPU reads the OS to start controlling the entire information processing device . In this way the flow of starts.

In the OS determines whether an instruction to activate the file tree display program has been input. This determination may be made for example by determining whether a double click operation has been input for the icon image of the file tree display program . The flow returns to S when a negative determination result is obtained S NO and proceeds to S when a positive determination result is obtained S YES .

In S the OS activates the file tree display program . Moreover the OS displays a file tree image on the panel . illustrates a file tree image W which is an example of the file tree image. The file tree image W includes folder icon images F to F F and F and data file icon images D to D. As illustrated in the file tree image W the file storage area stores various data files in a layered file structure using a plurality of folders. Specifically folders indicated by the folder icon images F and F are stored in the folder indicated by the folder icon image F. The folder indicated by the folder icon image F is a highest layer folder of the layered file structure. In a case in which the folder icon image F is selected is described. In this case the content stored in the folder indicated by the folder icon image F is displayed in a display area R. The display area R includes the folder icon images F and F the data file icon images D to D and a blank area image R. The blank area image R is an area in which any one of the folder icon image and the data file icon image is not displayed. As described above in the layered file structure of the file storage area folders and data files may be stored together in a certain folder. In the description example of the present embodiment the operation when the display screen illustrated in is displayed will be described.

In S the OS determines whether a right click operation has been performed on any one of the folder icon image the data file icon image and the blank area image R. For example as illustrated in in a state in which a pointer image P is present in the display area of the folder icon image F when the right click button of the mouse is clicked and the menu display information is input the OS determines that a right click operation has been performed on the folder icon image F. Moreover for example as illustrated in in a state in which the pointer image P is present in the display area of the data file icon image D when the right click button of the mouse is clicked and the menu display information is input the OS determines that a right click operation has been performed on the data file icon image D. Further for example as illustrated in in a state in which the pointer image P is present in the blank area image R when the right click button of the mouse is clicked and the menu display information is input the OS determines that a right click operation has been performed on the blank area image R. The blank area image R indicates the folder icon image F. Thus the right click operation on the blank area image R is the same as the right click operation on the folder icon image F. In S the flow ends when a negative determination result is obtained S NO and proceeds to S when a positive determination result is obtained S YES .

In S the OS displays the right click menu image on the panel in a pull down manner. The right click menu image includes an activation reception image for receiving the input of an instruction to activate the scan control program . illustrates a right click menu image W which is an example of the right click menu image. The right click menu image W is an image displayed when the right click button of the mouse is clicked in the state of the pointer image P of . The right click menu image W includes reception images for receiving the input of various instructions. The activation reception image N is one of the reception images.

In S the OS determines whether the activation reception image has been selected. For example as illustrated in in a state in which the pointer image P is present in the display area of the activation reception image N when a left click button of the mouse is single clicked and the selection instruction information is input the OS determines that the activation reception image N is selected. When a negative determination result is obtained in S S NO the flow proceeds to S and the other processes are executed. After that the flow ends. On the other hand when a positive determination result is obtained S YES the flow proceeds to S.

In S the OS receives first path information for accessing a folder or a data file indicated by the image on which the right click operation has been input. The first path information may be an absolute path. For example as illustrated in in a state in which the pointer image P is present in the display area of the folder icon image F when the right click operation is input first path information for accessing a document folder indicated by the folder icon image F is received. Moreover for example as illustrated in in a state in which the pointer image P is present in the display area of the data file icon image D when the right click operation is input first path information for accessing an image 1 data file indicated by the data file icon image D is received. Further for example as illustrated in in a state in which the pointer image P is present in the blank area image R when the right click operation is input first path information for accessing a document folder indicated by the folder icon image F is received.

In S the OS activates the scan control program using the first path information received in S as an argument. After that the flow ends.

The operation of the scan control program according to the present embodiment will be described with reference to the flowcharts of . In S the flow of starts in response to activation of the scan control program . In S the scan control program receives the first path information based on the argument generated in S.

In S the scan control program determines whether the image on which the right click operation has been input in S is a folder icon image or a blank area image. This determination may be made by determining whether an access destination of the first path information received in S is a folder. When a positive determination result is obtained S YES the flow proceeds to S. In S the scan control program stores the first path information in the storage unit temporarily.

In S the scan control program determines whether the image data file is stored in the folder indicated by the first path information. When a positive determination result is obtained the flow proceeds to S.

In S the scan control program determines a scan setting value and a saving format based on the attribute of the image data file that is stored in the folder indicated by the first path information. After that the flow proceeds to S. The attribute of the image data file includes resolution the number of colors an image format an image size and the like. The scan setting value is a value indicating the attribute of the scan data generated by the MFP . The saving format is an image format used when storing S the image data file received from the MFP in the file storage area .

A specific example of a method of determining the scan setting value will be described. The scan control program receives the attribute of all image data files that are stored in the folder indicated by the first path information. The setting value used most frequently for each attribute is determined as the scan setting value. For example when 300 dpi is used most frequently the resolution of the scan setting value is determined to 300 dpi . Specifically in a case where three image data files are stored in the folder respective resolutions of the files are 300 dpi 200 dpi and 300 dpi . In this case 300 dpi is determined to be used most frequently. Moreover when color is used most frequently the number of colors of the scan setting value is determined to color . Specifically in a case where three image data files are stored in the folder the respective numbers of colors of the three files are black and white color and color . In this case color is determined to be used most frequently. Thus for example the scan setting values can be determined to be 300 dpi color JPEG and A4 size respectively for the attributes of resolution number of colors image format and image size .

On the other hand when a negative determination result is obtained in S S NO the flow proceeds to S. In S the scan control program reads the default scan setting value of the scan control program stored in the scan setting storage area . Moreover the scan control program determines the scan setting value and the saving format based on the read default scan setting value. After that the flow proceeds to S.

On the other hand when a negative determination result is obtained in S S NO the flow proceeds to S of . In S the scan control program determines whether the image on which the right click operation has been input in S is a data file icon image. This determination may be made by determining whether the access destination of the first path information received in S is a data file. The flow ends when a negative determination result is obtained S NO and proceeds to S when a positive determination result is obtained S YES .

In S the scan control program receives second path information for accessing the folder that stores the data file indicated by the first path information and stores the second path information in the storage unit temporarily.

In S the scan control program determines whether the format of the data file indicated by the data file icon image on which the right click operation has been input is a second format. As described above the second format is a format to which image processing metadata cannot be appended. When a negative determination result is obtained S NO the flow proceeds to S.

In S the scan control program reads image processing metadata from the header information of the data file indicated by the data file icon image on which the right click operation has been input. When the processing information is included in the image processing metadata the scan control program stores the processing information in the storage unit temporarily. After that the flow proceeds to S.

On the other hand when a positive determination result is obtained in S S YES the flow proceeds to S. In S the scan control program determines whether the processing information corresponding to the data file indicated by the data file icon image on which the right click operation has been input is stored in the information processing table . The flow proceeds to S when a negative determination result is obtained S NO and proceeds to S when a positive determination result is obtained S YES .

In S the scan control program reads the processing information corresponding to the data file indicated by the data file icon image on which the right click operation has been input from the information processing table and stores the processing information in the storage unit temporarily. After that the flow proceeds to S.

In S the scan control program determines the scan setting value and the saving format based on the attribute of the data file indicated by the second path information. After that the flow proceeds to S.

In S of the scan control program transmits an instruction to executed the scan process to the MFP via the wireless transmitting and receiving unit and the wireless antenna unit . The instruction to execute the scan process is information that gives an instruction to generate scan data corresponding to the scan setting value determined in S S or S. After that the flow proceeds to S.

When receiving the instruction to execute the scan process the MFP reads a document to generate scan data. In the description example of the present embodiment the operation when N pages N is a natural number of 1 or more of document are scanned will be described. In this case the MFP transmits the generated scan data to the information processing device whenever one page of scan data is generated. Thus the process of transmitting scan data is performed N times.

In S the scan control program determines whether one page of scan data has been received from the MFP . The flow returns to S when a negative determination result is obtained S NO and proceeds to S when a positive determination result is obtained S YES .

In S the scan control program determines whether image processing is to be executed on the scan data. This determination may be made by determining whether the processing information has been stored temporarily in the storage unit by the process of S or S. The flow proceeds to S when a negative determination result is obtained S NO and proceeds to S when a positive determination result is obtained S YES . In S the scan control program execute the image processing indicated by the processing information on the received scan data. After that the flow proceeds to S.

In S the scan control program converts the format of the scan data to the saving format determined in S S or S.

In S the scan control program determines whether the saving format is a multipage image format. A multipage image format is a format capable of generating one data file that includes a plurality of pages of image data. Examples of the multipage image format include TIFF PDF and the like. Moreover examples of non multipage image format include bitmap JPEG and the like. The flow proceeds to S when a positive determination result is obtained in S S YES and proceeds to S when a negative determination result is obtained S NO .

In S the scan control program generates a file name. In S when the right click operation is input on the data file icon image S YES a new file name that include a portion of the file name that is assigned to the data file indicated by the data file icon image is generated. For example when the file name of a data file indicated by the data file icon image is travel a new file name travel 1 may be generated. Moreover in S when the right click operation is input on the folder icon image or the blank area image S YES a new file name that includes a particular character string is generated. For example when the particular character string is new scan data a new file name new scan data 1 may be generated.

In S the scan control program performs a process of storing one item of scan data received in S in association with the file name generated in S. When the first path information is stored temporarily in the storage unit S it can be determined that the right click operation has been input on the folder icon image or the blank area image. Thus the scan control program stores the received scan data in the folder indicated by the first path information. In this way it is possible to store the received scan data in the folder indicated by the folder icon image on which the right click operation has been input. On the other hand when the second path information is stored temporarily in the storage unit S it can be determined that the right click operation has been input on the data file icon image. Thus the scan control program stores the received scan data in the folder indicated by the second path information. In this way it is possible to store the received scan data in the folder that stores the data file icon image on which the right click operation has been input. After that the flow proceeds to S.

In S the scan control program determines whether all N pages of scan data have been received from the scanner. When a negative determination result is obtained S NO the flow returns to S and the next one page of scan data is received. When a positive determination result is obtained S YES the flow proceeds to S.

In S the scan control program determines whether the saving format is a multipage image format. The flow ends when a negative determination result is obtained S NO and proceeds to S when a positive determination result is obtained S YES .

In S the scan control program generates a file name. The specific content of the process of S is the same as the content of the process of S and redundant description thereof will not be provided.

In S the scan control program performs a process of storing one image data file having N pages of scan data in association with the file name generated in S. The specific content of the process of S is the same as the content of the process of S and redundant description thereof will not be provided. After that the flow ends.

There is a case in which the scan data generated by the MFP is stored in a particular transfer destination folder in the file storage area . In this case when a user wants to store the scan data in a folder selected by the user it is necessary to move the scan data from the transfer destination folder to the folder selected by the user. According to the scan control program and the like disclosed in the present specification by inputting a right click operation on the selected folder icon image S it is possible to transmit an instruction to execute the scan process to the MFP S . Moreover it is possible to store the scan data received from the MFP in the folder indicated by the selected folder icon image S or S . Further by inputting a right click operation on the selected data file icon image S it is possible to transmit an instruction to execute the scan process to the MFP S . Moreover it is possible to store the scan data received from the MFP in the folder in which the selected data file icon image is stored S or S . In this way the user can store the scan data in the folder selected by the user by selecting the folder icon image or the data file icon image. Since it is not necessary to move the scan data from the transfer destination folder to the folder selected by the user it is possible to improve operability. Moreover since it is not necessary to perform both an operation of inputting an instruction to execute the scan process and an operation of designating the folder icon image indicating a folder in which the scan data is to be stored it is possible to improve operability.

According to the scan control program and the like disclosed in the present specification it is possible to determine the scan setting value and the saving format automatically based on the attribute of the image data file corresponding to the data file icon image on which the right click operation has been input S . Moreover it is possible to determine the scan setting value and the saving format automatically based on the attribute of the image data file stored in the folder corresponding to the folder icon image on which the right click operation has been input S . Further when the image data file is not stored in the folder corresponding to the folder icon image on which the right click operation has been input S NO it is possible to determine the scan setting value and the saving format automatically based on a particular default scan setting value S . Since it is not necessary to perform an operation of inputting the scan setting value and the saving format it is possible to improve user s convenience.

According to the scan control program and the like disclosed in the present specification when a plurality of image data files are stored in the folder corresponding to the folder icon image on which the right click operation has been input it is possible to determine the setting value used most frequently as the scan setting value S . In this way it is possible to determine an optimal scan setting value automatically.

According to the scan control program and the like disclosed in the present specification it is possible to designate a storage destination folder of the scan data with a simple operation S of performing a right click operation using the mouse . Thus it is possible to improve the user s convenience.

According to the scan control program and the like disclosed in the present specification it is possible to read image processing metadata including processing information from the header information of the data file indicated by the data file icon image on which the right click operation has been input S . Moreover it is possible to execute the image processing indicated by the processing information on the received scan data automatically S . In this way since it is not necessary to perform an operation of giving an instruction on the content of the image processing it is possible to improve convenience.

According to the scan control program and the like disclosed in the present specification when the data file indicated by the data file icon image on which the right click operation has been input has the second format to which image processing metadata cannot be appended S YES it is possible to read the processing information corresponding to the data file from the information processing table S . Moreover it is possible to execute the image processing indicated by the processing information on the received scan data automatically S . In this way since it is not necessary to perform an operation of giving an instruction on the content of the image processing it is possible to improve convenience.

According to the scan control program and the like disclosed in the present specification when the right click operation has been input on the data file icon image S YES it is possible to generate a new file name that includes a portion of the file name that is assigned to the data file indicated by the data file icon image S . In this way since it is possible to assign an appropriate file name to the received scan data automatically it is possible to improve the user s convenience.

While specific embodiments of the present invention have been described in detail above such description is for illustrative purposes only and is not intended to limit the scope and claims of the invention. Techniques described in the claims of the invention include various modifications and changes made to the specific examples illustrated above. Modifications will be described below.

Various other methods may be used for determining the scan setting value in S. For example the scan control program may determine the scan setting value based on the attribute of an image data file stored the latest among all image data files that are stored in the folder indicated by the first path information. In this way when a plurality of image data files are stored in the folder corresponding to the folder icon image on which the right click operation has been input it is possible to determine the setting value used in the newest image data file as the scan setting value. Thus it is possible to determine an optimal scan setting value automatically.

In the present embodiment although a case in which the menu display information is input by the right click operation has been described the present invention is not limited to this embodiment. Even when the menu display information is input by a long press operation on the touchscreen the technique described in the present specification can be realized.

The information processing device is not limited to a PC. The information processing device may be a tablet terminal or a smartphone that receives the input of an operation on a touchscreen.

The communication between the information processing device and the MFP is not limited to the wireless communications and . For example the communication may be realized by a USB connection. In this case the information processing device may include a USB interface. Moreover the information processing device may be connected to the MFP by a USB interface and a USB cable.

In S the right click operation on a plurality of folder icon images may be received. In this case the scan data received from the MFP may be stored in the plurality of folders indicated by the plurality of selected folder icon images S or S .

In S when the data file indicated by the second path information includes a plurality of pages of image data the scan setting value may be determined for each page based on the attribute of the page. In S an execution instruction for generating scan data may be transmitted based on the scan setting value of each page. For example when the first page of the data file indicated by the second path information is color and the second and subsequent pages are monochrome an execution instruction may be transmitted so that the first page of scan data is color and the second and subsequent pages are monochrome.

When the right click operation is input S YES the scan instruction may be executed using the default scan setting value of the scan control program stored in the scan setting storage area . In this case the flow may proceed from S to S.

In S the default scan setting value for example the default scan setting value of the MFP control program of another program other than the scan control program may be used.

The manner of display of the display screens shown are examples and other display modes may also be utilized.

Furthermore it is to be understood that the technical elements described in the present specification and the drawings exhibit technical usefulness solely or in various combinations thereof and shall not be limited to the combinations described in the claims at the time of filing. The techniques illustrated in the present specification and the drawings are to achieve a plurality of objectives at the same time and technical usefulness is exhibited by attaining any one of such objectives.

Each program may be constituted by a single program module or by a plurality of program modules. Each example may adopt another replaceable configuration which is within the context of the present invention. Adoptable configurations include a hardware configuration the panel or the like which operates according to an instruction by a computer and a configuration in which a computer and a hardware configuration work in conjunction with each other. Obviously adoptable configurations also include a computer which executes processing by coupling processing based on a plurality of programs and a hardware configuration which operates according to an instruction by a computer which executes processing by coupling processing based on a plurality of programs.

