---

title: Approach to produce HIV-1 GP140 envelope protein trimers
abstract: An approach of producing recombinant trimers that mimic native HIV-1 envelope trimers is developed. A recombinant protein forming the recombinant trimers encompasses a recombinant HIV-1 gp140 fused to a tag through a linker at C-terminus of the recombinant HIV-1 gp140. The linker is sufficiently long so that the tag is accessible for binding by a binding molecule bound on a solid matrix. After expressed in a cell, the recombinant protein is secreted into the culture medium and assembles into recombinant trimers therein. The recombinant trimers may be directly purified from the culture medium. Cleaved and uncleaved trimers from different clade viruses are produced.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09580477&OS=09580477&RS=09580477
owner: The Catholic University of America
number: 09580477
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150723
---
This application claims benefit of priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 62 133 578 entitled A NEW APPROACH TO PRODUCE HIV 1 GP140 ENVELOPE PROTEIN TRIMERS filed Mar. 16 2015 U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 62 166 271 entitled A NEW APPROACH TO PRODUCE HIV 1 ENVELOPE TRIMERS BOTH CLEAVAGE AND PROPER GLYCOSYLATION ARE ESSENTIAL TO GENERATE AUTHENTIC TRIMERS filed May 26 2015. The entire contents and disclosures of these provisional patent applications are incorporated herein by reference.

This application makes reference to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 731 147 entitled DESIGNING A SOLUBLE FULL LENGTH HIV 1 GP41 TRIMER filed Nov. 29 2012 and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 091 401 entitled DESIGNING A SOLUBLE FULL LENGTH HIV 1 GP41 TRIMER filed Nov. 27 2013. The entire disclosure and contents of these patent applications are incorporated herein by reference.

This invention is made with government support under NIH grant AI102725 awarded by National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases NIAID to Venigalla B. Rao. The U.S. Government has certain rights in this invention.

The present invention relates to HIV 1 envelope protein gp140 and HIV 1 envelope trimers as well as an HIV vaccine.

The trimeric envelope glycoprotein spike of HIV 1 mediates virus entry into human cells. The exposed part of the trimer gp140 consists of two noncovalently associated subunits gp120 and gp41 ectodomain. The surface of an HIV 1 virus is covered with 20 50 trimeric envelope spikes that are embedded in the viral envelope. The spike makes the first contact with the human T cell during sexual transmission of the virus. This interaction triggers a series of events leading to fusion of viral and host membranes and delivery of the virus nucleocapsid core into the host cell. This results in the establishment of HIV infection in the human host. A vaccine containing recombinantly produced viral trimers that mimics native spike might elicit trimer specific antibodies which by binding to the virus can disable envelope protein Env function and block the transmission of HIV into humans. Therefore development of a recombinant trimer immunogen as a vaccine has been one of the top priorities in the hunt for an effective HIV vaccine. However preparation of authentic HIV 1 trimers has been challenging. The procedures developed so far have not produced authentic trimers which appear as three blade propeller shaped particles when visualized by an electron microscope.

According to a first broad aspect the present invention provides a recombinant DNA comprising a nucleic acid sequence encoding a recombinant protein wherein the recombinant protein comprises a recombinant HIV 1 gp140 fused to a tag through a peptide linker at C terminus of the recombinant HIV 1 gp140 wherein the peptide linker is sufficiently long so that the tag is accessible for binding by a binding molecule bound on a solid matrix and wherein the recombinant protein assembles into recombinant trimers that mimic native HIV 1 envelope trimers when the recombinant protein is expressed by cells carrying the nucleic acid sequence encoding the recombinant protein.

According to a second broad aspect the present invention provides a composition comprising a vector comprising a regulatory region operably linked to a nucleic acid sequence encoding a recombinant protein wherein the recombinant protein comprises a recombinant HIV 1 gp140 fused to a tag through a peptide linker at C terminus of the recombinant HIV 1 gp140 and a secretion signal peptide linked at N terminus of the recombinant HIV 1 gp140 wherein the peptide linker is sufficiently long so that the tag is accessible for binding by a binding molecule bound on a solid matrix and wherein the regulatory region regulates expression of the recombinant protein in a cell carrying the vector.

According to a third broad aspect the present invention provides a vector comprising an expression cassette comprising a regulatory region a first nucleic acid sequence encoding a secretion signal peptide an insertion region comprising two or more restriction sites for inserting a second nucleic acid sequence encoding a recombinant HIV 1 gp140 and a third nucleic acid sequence encoding a peptide linker and a tag to be fused to the recombinant HIV 1 gp140 wherein the regulatory region is operably linked to the first nucleic acid sequence wherein the first nucleic acid sequence is located adjacent to 5 end of the insertion region wherein the third nucleic acid sequence is located adjacent to 3 end of the insertion region and wherein the peptide linker is sufficiently long so that the tag is accessible for binding by a binding molecule bound on a solid matrix when the tag is fused to the recombinant HIV 1 gp140.

Where the definition of terms departs from the commonly used meaning of the term applicant intends to utilize the definitions provided below unless specifically indicated.

For purposes of the present invention it should be noted that the singular forms a an and the include reference to the plural unless the context as herein presented clearly indicates otherwise.

For purposes of the present invention directional terms such as top bottom upper lower above below left right horizontal vertical up down etc. are used merely for convenience in describing the various embodiments of the present invention. The embodiments of the present invention may be oriented in various ways. For example the diagrams apparatuses etc. shown in the drawing figures may be flipped over rotated by 90 in any direction reversed etc.

For purposes of the present invention the term comprising the term having and the term including are intended to be open ended and mean that there may be additional elements other than the listed elements.

For purposes of the present invention the term access refers to approaching near and being able to contact or interact with a molecule. For example when a binding molecule accesses a target peptide the binding molecule approaches near the target peptide and then binds to the target peptide. A binding molecule that is accessible to a target peptide is not blocked or sterically hindered by the 3 dimensional 3 D structure of a protein or a protein complex comprising the target peptide. For example if a peptide tag fused at an end of a protein or a protein complex is accessible for binding by a binding molecule bound on a solid matrix the access and binding of the binding molecule bound on a solid matrix to the peptide tag is not sterically hindered by the 3 D structure of the protein or the protein complex.

For purposes of the present invention the term accessible for binding refers to a binding site of a target molecule or target complex that is not blocked or sterically hindered by the 3 D structure of the target molecule or target complex with respect to a binding molecule binding to the binding site. For example in one embodiment of the present invention where the binding site is a tag fused to a gp140 protein a long linker is used to separate the tag from the gp140 protein to make the tag available to be bound by a binding molecule thereby preventing structures of the gp140 protein from sterically hindering or blocking access of the binding molecule to the tag.

For purposes of the present invention the term affinity chromatography refers to a separation technique based upon molecular conformation which frequently utilizes application specific resins. These resins have ligands attached to their surfaces which are specific for the compounds to be separated. Most frequently these ligands function in a fashion similar to that of antibody antigen interactions. For example many membrane proteins are glycoproteins and can be purified by lectin affinity chromatography. Detergent solubilized proteins can be allowed to bind to a chromatography resin that has been modified to have a covalently attached lectin. Proteins that do not bind to the lectin are washed away and then specifically bound glycoproteins can be eluted by adding a high concentration of a sugar that competes with the bound glycoproteins at the lectin binding site. Some lectins have high affinity binding to oligosaccharides of glycoproteins that is hard to compete with sugars and bound glycoproteins need to be released by denaturing the lectin.

For purposes of the present invention the term antibody refers to a protein produced by plasma cells that are used by an immune system to identify and neutralize foreign objects for example bacteria and viruses. An antibody is also known as an immunoglobulin. Each antibody recognizes a specific part of a specific foreign object called an antigen and binds the specific antigen. Antibodies can cause agglutination and precipitation of antibody antigen products prime for phagocytosis by macrophages and other cells block viral receptors and stimulate other immune responses such as the complement pathway.

For purposes of the present invention the term attach when is used in protein or polypeptide refers to join fuse link or connect two amino acid sequences together. For example an amino acid tag may be attached to a polypeptide of interest such as a gp140 at C terminus or N terminus. Usually a tag is attached or fused to a polypeptide through a linker wherein the linker locates between the polypeptide and the tag.

For purposes of the present invention the term base of a trimer and the term base of a gp140 structure are used interchangeably to refer to the portion of a gp140 subunit within the trimer or the gp140 structure not including other molecules bound attached or complexed with one of the gp140 subunits of the trimer. For example linkers tags etc. are not part of the base of a trimer or the base of a gp140 structure.

For purposes of the present invention the term bind the term binding or the term bound refers to any type of chemical or physical binding which includes but is not limited to covalent binding hydrogen binding electrostatic binding biological tethers transmembrane attachment cell surface attachment and expression.

For purposes of the present invention the term binding molecule refers to a molecule having a specific interaction with a target complex such as a DNA a protein a polypeptide or a polypeptide oligomer etc. A specific interaction between the binding molecule and the target complex may be a highly specific interaction such as an interaction between antigen and antibody or receptor and ligand. A binding molecule may be bound to a solid matrix such as agarose beads and then be used in protein affinity purification to capture a target complex from a mixture containing the target complex. A binding molecule bound to a solid matrix may be a Ni NTA bead a STREP TACTIN bead etc. For example in affinity purification of a protein or an antigen from a mixture an antibody against a target protein or a target antigen may be used as a binding molecule and be bound to a bead to capture the protein or the antigen from the mixture. In some examples a binding molecule may be a small molecule specifically binds to a tag fused on a recombinant protein.

For purposes of the present invention the term clade refers to related human immunodeficiency viruses HIVs classified according to their degree of genetic similarity. There are currently three groups of HIV 1 isolates M N and O. Group M major strains consists of at least ten clades A through J. Group 0 outer strains may consist of a similar number of clades. Group N is a new HIV 1 isolate that has not been categorized in either group M or O. In certain exemplary embodiments a composition of the invention e.g. any one of the vaccines of the first or fourth aspects the compositions of the third aspect the nucleic acid molecules of the fifth aspect and or the vectors of the sixth aspect as described herein will recognize and raise an immune response e.g. neutralizing anti HIV antisera against two three four five six seven eight nine ten or more clades and or two or more groups of HIV.

For purposes of the present invention the term cleavage refers to breaking of a chemical bond in a polypeptide molecule to separate or divide a polypeptide molecule into two or more portions such as two small peptides.

For purposes of the present invention the term correspond and the term corresponding refer to that a protein sequence refer interchangeably to an amino acid position s of a protein. An amino acid at a position of a protein may be found to be equivalent or corresponding to an amino acid at a position of one or more other protein s based on any relevant evidence such as the primary sequence context of the each amino acid its position in relation to the N terminal and C terminal ends of its respective protein the structural and functional roles of each amino acid in its respective protein etc.

For purposes of the present invention the term constitutively express refers to the consistent synthesis of a protein. Constitutively express is contrary to inducible expression which depends on promoters that respond to the induction conditions.

For purposes of the present invention the term crosslink refers to a bond that links one polypeptide to another. Proteins naturally present in the body can contain crosslinks generated by enzyme catalyzed or spontaneous reactions. Such crosslinks are important in generating mechanically stable structures such as hair skin and cartilage. Disulfide bond formation is one of the most common crosslinks but isopeptide bond formation is also common. Proteins can also be cross linked artificially using small molecule crosslinkers. Compromised collagen in the cornea a condition known as keratoconus can be treated with clinical crosslinking.

For purposes of the present invention the term culture medium the term culture supernatant and the term cell culture supernatant refer to the media fluid in which cells are suspended cultured during growth. Culture supernatant is usually the clear upper liquid part of a mixture including cells and media after being centrifuged. Culture supernatant may also be the liquid lying above a layer of precipitated cells.

For purposes of the present invention the term domain and the term protein domain refer to a distinct functional or structural unit in a protein. Usually a protein domain is responsible for a particular function or interaction contributing to the overall role of a protein. Domains may exist in a variety of biological contexts where similar domains can be found in proteins with different functions.

For purposes of the present invention the term ectodomain refers to a domain of a membrane protein that extends into the extracellular space e.g. a space outside a cell . Ectodomains are usually the parts of proteins that initiate contact with surfaces which leads to signal transduction. For example the ectodomain of an HIV 1 envelope glycoprotein Env is a heterodimer with mass of approximately 140 kDa composed of the entire gp120 component and approximately 20 kDa of gp41 which are displayed on the surface of the viral membrane.

For purposes of the present invention the term engineered refers to being made by biological engineering.

For purposes of the present invention the term Env spike refers to a structure of a complex existing on the envelope of an HIV viral particle. An HIV Env spike is a trimer formed by envelope protein Env gp140.

For purposes of the present invention the term envelope glycoprotein and the term Env refer to but are not limited to the glycoprotein that is expressed on the surface of the envelope of HIV virions and the surface of the plasma membrane of HIV infected cells. For example a native env gene encodes gp160 which is proteolytically cleaved into the gp120 and gp41 Envelope Env proteins. Gp120 binds to the CD4 receptor on a target cell that has such a receptor such as e.g. a T helper cell. A native Gp41 is non covalently bound to gp120 and provides the second step by which HIV enters the cell. It is originally buried within the viral envelope but when gp120 binds to a CD4 receptor gp120 changes its conformation causing gp41 to become exposed where it can assist in fusion with the host cell.

For purposes of the present invention the term epitope refers to a molecular region on the surface of an antigen capable of eliciting an immune response and combining with the specific antibody produced by such a response. It is also called antigenic determinant. T cell epitopes are presented on the surface of an antigen presenting cell where they are bound to MHC molecules.

For purposes of the present invention the term expression and the term gene expression refer to a process by which information from a gene or a fragment of DNA is used in the synthesis of a functional gene product. A gene which encodes a protein will when expressed be transcribed and translated to produce that protein.

For purposes of the present invention the term expression cassette refers to a part of a vector DNA used for cloning and transformation. In each successful transformation the expression cassette directs the cell s machinery to make RNA and protein. Some expression cassettes are designed for modular cloning of protein encoding sequences so that the same cassette can easily be altered to make different proteins. Expression cassettes may also refer to a recombinantly produced nucleic acid molecule that is capable of expressing a genetic sequence in a cell. An expression cassette typically includes a regulatory region such as a promoter allowing transcription initiation and a sequence encoding one or more proteins or RNAs. Optionally the expression cassette may include transcriptional enhancers non coding sequences splicing signals transcription termination signals and polyadenylation signals. The sequences controlling the expression of the gene i.e. its transcription and the translation of the transcription product are commonly referred to as regulatory unit. Most parts of the regulatory unit are located upstream of coding sequence of the heterologous gene and are operably linked thereto. The expression cassette may also contain a downstream 3 untranslated region comprising a polyadenylation site. The regulatory unit of the invention is either directly linked to the gene to be expressed i.e. transcription unit or is separated therefrom by intervening DNA such as for example by the 5 untranslated region of the heterologous gene. Preferably the expression cassette is flanked by one or more suitable restriction sites in order to enable the insertion of the expression cassette into a vector and or its excision from a vector. Thus the expression cassette according to the present invention can be used for the construction of an expression vector in particular a mammalian expression vector.

For purposes of the present invention the term expression vector otherwise known as an expression construct refers to a plasmid or virus designed for protein expression in cells. The vector is used to introduce a specific gene into a target cell and can commandeer the cell s mechanism for protein synthesis to produce the protein encoded by the gene. The plasmid is engineered to contain regulatory sequences that act as enhancer and promoter regions and lead to efficient transcription of the gene carried on the expression vector. The goal of a well designed expression vector is the production of significant amount of stable messenger RNA and therefore proteins.

For purposes of the present invention the term foldon sequence refers to a sequence derived from the native T4 phage fibritin. The foldon sequence has a sequence of YIPEAPRDGQAYVRKDG EWVLLSTFL SEQ ID NO 1 . When incorporated at the C terminal of a protein molecule the foldon sequence stabilizes the triple helix formed in the protein.

For purposes of the present invention the term fragment of a molecule such as a protein or a nucleic acid refers to a portion of an amino acid sequence of the protein or a portion of a nucleotide sequence of the nucleic acid.

For purposes of the present invention the term furin refers to a protein encoded by the FURIN gene. Some proteins are inactive when they are first synthesized and must have sections deleted in order to become active. Furin deletes these sections and activates the proteins. Furin is one of the proteases responsible for the proteolytic cleavage of HIV envelope polyprotein precursor gp160 to gp120 and gp41 prior to viral assembly.

For purposes of the present invention the term furin cleavage proficient CP refers to offering proficiency for cleavage by furin. A protein with furin cleavage proficient site is likely to be cleaved by furin.

For purposes of the present invention the term furin cleavage resistant CR refers to offering resistance to be cleaved by furin. A protein with furin cleavage resistant site is unlikely to be cleaved by furin.

For purposes of the present invention the term fuse refers to join together physically or to make things join together and become a single thing.

For purposes of the present invention the term fusion polypeptide or the term fusion protein refers to a protein having at least two heterologous polypeptides covalently linked either directly or via an amino acid linker. The heterologous polypeptides forming a fusion protein are typically linked C terminus to N terminus although they can also be linked C terminus to C terminus N terminus to N terminus or N terminus to C terminus. The polypeptides of the fusion protein can be in any order and may include more than one of either or both of the constituent polypeptides. These terms encompass conservatively modified variants polymorphic variants alleles mutants subsequences interspecies homologs and immunogenic fragments of the antigens that make up the fusion protein. These terms may also refer to a protein developed from a fusion gene that is created through a joining of two or more genes originally coding for separate proteins. Translation of this fusion gene results in a single or multiple polypeptides with functional properties derived from each of the original proteins. In present invention fusion protein and recombinant protein are interchangeable. Fusion proteins of the disclosure may also comprise additional copies of a component antigen or immunogenic fragment thereof.

For purposes of the present invention the term fusion polypeptide or the term fusion protein refers to a protein having at least two heterologous polypeptides covalently linked either directly or via an amino acid linker. The heterologous polypeptides forming a fusion protein are typically linked C terminus to N terminus although they can also be linked C terminus to C terminus N terminus to N terminus or N terminus to C terminus. The polypeptides of the fusion protein can be in any order and may include more than one of either or both of the constituent polypeptides. These terms encompass conservatively modified variants polymorphic variants alleles mutants subsequences interspecies homologs and immunogenic fragments of the antigens that make up the fusion protein. These terms may also refer to a protein developed from a fusion gene that is created through a joining of two or more genes originally coding for separate proteins. Translation of this fusion gene results in a single or multiple polypeptides with functional properties derived from each of the original proteins. In present invention fusion protein and recombinant protein are interchangeable. Fusion proteins of the disclosure may also comprise additional copies of a component antigen or immunogenic fragment thereof.

For purposes of the present invention the term gel electrophoresis refers to a method for separation and analysis of macromolecules DNA RNA and proteins and their fragments based on their size and charge. Gel electrophoresis conditions include denaturing condition and native condition non denaturing condition . Under denaturing condition molecules such as proteins are denatured in a solution containing a detergent SDS . In these conditions for example proteins are unfolded and coated with negatively charged detergent molecules. Proteins in SDS PAGE are then separated on the sole basis of their size. The protein migrates as bands based on size. Each band can be detected using stains such as Coomassie blue dye or silver stain. Unlike denaturing methods native gel electrophoresis does not use a charged denaturing agent. Under native condition molecules such as proteins maintain their natural structures. The molecules being separated therefore differ not only in molecular mass and intrinsic charge but also the cross sectional area and thus experience different electrophoretic forces dependent on the shape of the overall structure. For proteins since they remain in the native state they may be visualized not only by general protein staining reagents but also by specific enzyme linked staining.

For purposes of the present invention the term gene refers to a nucleic acid e.g. DNA or RNA sequence that comprises coding sequences necessary for the production of an RNA or a polypeptide or its precursor. The term portion when used in reference to a gene refers to fragments of that gene. The fragments may range in size from a few nucleotides to the entire gene sequence minus one nucleotide.

For purposes of the present invention the term glycosylation refers to attachment of monosaccharides and oligosaccharides to a protein backbone via a glycosidic linkage. Glycosylation is a post translation modification. The term hyper glycosylated refers to more extensive glycosylation when compared to the normal glycosylation observed in the native like cleaved trimers. These differences can be observed as differences in the mobility upon polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. In embodiments of the present invention the term fully glycosylated refers to glycosylations that occur in the HEK293 cell a human embryonic kidney cell line used for production of gp140. Partial glycosylation occurs in the GnTI cell line. The GnTI cell line lacks the N acetylglucosamine transferase 1 enzyme hence it cannot introduce complex glycosylations.

For purposes of the present invention the term gp120 and the term envelope glycoprotein gp120 refers to a glycoprotein exposed on the surface of the HIV envelope. The gp120 in its name comes from its molecular weight of 120 kDa. Gp120 is essential for virus entry into cells as it plays a vital role in attachment to specific cell surface receptors. Gp120 is coded by the HIV env gene which is around 2.5 kb long and codes for around 850 amino acids. The primary env product is the protein gp160 which gets cleaved to gp120 480 amino acids and gp41 345 amino acids in the endoplasmatic reticulum by the cellular protease furin. The crystal structure of core gp120 shows an organization with an outer domain an inner domain with respect to its termini and a bridging sheet. Gp120 is anchored to the viral membrane or envelope via non covalent bonds with the transmembrane glycoprotein gp41. Three gp120s and gp41s combine in a trimer of heterodimers to form the envelope spike which mediates attachment to and entry into the host cell.

For purposes of the present invention the term human immunodeficiency virus and the term HIV refer to a virus of the genus Lentivirinae part of the family of Retroviridae and includes but is not limited to HIV type 1 HIV 1 and HIV type 2 HIV 2 two species of HIV that infect humans. The HIV I virus may represent any of the known major subtypes or clades e.g. Classes A B C D E F G J and H or outlying subtype Group 0 . Also encompassed are other HIV I subtypes or clades that may be isolated. An HIV isolate refers to a type of HIV virus that has been separated and identified from other species of HIV.

For purposes of the present invention the term HIV 1 gp140 the term gp140 and the term gp140 envelope protein refer to a protein having two disulfide linked polypeptide chains the first chain comprising the amino acid sequence of the HIV gp120 glycoprotein and the second chain comprising the amino acid sequence of the water soluble portion of HIV gp41 glycoprotein gp41 portion . In embodiments of the present invention HIV gp140 proteins include but are not limited to proteins wherein the gp41 portion comprises a point mutation such as I559P. I559P refers to a mutation introduced to change Isoleucine at position 559 to Proline.

For purposes of the present invention the term HIV 1 gp41 the term gp41 the term glycoprotein 41 and the term gp41 subunit refers to a subunit of the envelope protein complex of retroviruses including Human immunodeficiency virus HIV . These terms include but are not limited to 1 an entire gp41 polypeptide including the transmembrane and cytoplasmic domains 2 a gp41 ectodomain gp41ECTo 3 a gp41 modified by deletion or insertion of one or more glycosylation sites 4 a gp41 modified so as to eliminate or mask the well known immunodominant epitope 5 a gp41 fusion protein and 6 a gp41 labeled with an affinity ligand or other detectable marker. As used herein ectodomain means the extracellular region of a transmembrane protein exclusive of the transmembrane spanning and cytoplasmic regions.

For purposes of the present invention the term host cell and the term host refer to 1 a cell that harbors foreign molecules viruses etc. 2 a cell that has been introduced with DNA or RNA such as a bacterial cell acting as a host cell for the DNA isolated from a bacteriophage. For example a host cell may be a living cell in which a virus such as HIV 1 reproduces.

For purposes of the present invention the term incorporate refers to insert a fragment of a first nucleic acid into a fragment of a second nucleic acid.

For purposes of the present invention the term immunogen and the term immunogenic composition refer to a substance or material including antigens that is able to induce an immune response alone or in conjunction with an adjuvant. Both natural and synthetic substances may be immunogens.

For purposes of the present invention the term immune response refers to any response to an antigen or antigenic determinant by the immune system of a subject e.g. a human . Exemplary immune responses include humoral immune responses e.g. production of antigen specific antibodies e.g. neutralizing antibodies NAbs and cell mediated immune responses e.g. lymphocyte proliferation .

For purposes of the present invention the term junction the term junction fragment the term junction sequence and the term junction peptide are interchangeable and refer to a region or a fragment or a portion of peptide between two subunits or sections within a polypeptide. The two subunits or sections meet or join via the junction fragment.

For purposes of the present invention the term ligand refers to an organic molecule that donates the necessary electrons to form coordinate covalent bonds with metallic ions. Ligand also refers to an ion a molecule or a molecular group that binds to another chemical entity to for a larger complex.

For purposes of the present invention the term linked refers to a covalent linkage between two polypeptides in a fusion protein. The polypeptides are typically joined via a peptide bond either directly to each other or via one or more additional amino acids.

For purposes of the present invention the term linker and the term peptide linker are interchangeable and refer to short peptide sequences that occur between functional protein domains and link the functional domains together. Linkers designed by researchers are generally classified into three categories according to their structures flexible linkers rigid linkers and in vivo cleavable linkers. A flexible linker is often composed of flexible residues like glycine and serine so that the adjacent protein domains are free to move relative to one another. A linker also may play a role in releasing the free functional domain in vivo as in in vivo cleavable linkers . Linkers may offer many other advantages for the production of fusion proteins such as improving biological activity increasing expression yield and achieving desirable pharmacokinetic profiles. The composition and length of a linker may be determined in accordance with methods well known in the art and may be tested for efficacy. A linker may be from about 3 to about 15 amino acids long. In some embodiments of the present invention a linker may be about 5 to about 10 amino acids long however longer linker may be used in embodiments of the present invention.

For purposes of the present invention a long linker refers to a linker that is sufficiently long that a tag that is fused to a gp140 protein is accessible for binding by a binding molecule. In some embodiments of the present invention a long linker may be more than 3 amino acids in length. In some embodiments a long linker may be 20 or more amino acids in length. In some embodiments of the present invention a long linker may be 23 or more amino acids in length. In some embodiments a long linker may be 27 or more amino acids in length.

For purposes of the present invention the term mimic refers to have a similar structure. For example according to embodiment of the present when a trimer formed by three copies of protein molecule of a recombinant HIV gp140 protein mimics native HIV Envelope protein Env gp140 trimer it means that the trimer formed by three copies of protein molecule of a recombinant HIV gp140 protein resemble the trimeric structure formed by native HIV gp140 at natural condition. A trimer formed by recombinant HIV gp140 protein that mimics native HIVgp140 trimer structure the native Env spike may be able to elicit neutralizing antibody responses in immunized animals.

For purposes of the present invention the term modified and the term mutant when made in reference to a gene or to a gene product refer respectively to a gene or to a gene product which displays modifications in sequence and or functional properties i.e. altered characteristics when compared to the wild type gene or gene product.

For purposes of the present invention the term monomer refers to a molecule that may bind chemically to other molecules to form a polymer. The term monomeric protein may also be used to describe one of the proteins making up a multiprotein complex.

For purposes of the present invention the term mutation refers to a change in the polypeptide sequence of a protein or in the nucleic acid sequence.

For purposes of the present invention the term native like refers to resemble a naturally existing product or a structure of the native product.

For purposes of the present invention the term neutralizing antibody Nab refers to an antibody which either is purified from or is present in serum and which recognizes a specific antigen e.g. HIV Env glycoprotein such as a gp140 polypeptide or a gp120 polypeptide and inhibits the effect s of the antigen in the host e.g. a human . As used herein the antibody can be a single antibody or a plurality of antibodies.

For purposes of the present invention the term Ni based resin and the term nickel based resin refer to a nickel charged resin that can be used in purification of recombinant proteins carrying a His tag. Ni based resins include Ni NTA agarose or beads and other Ni IDA resins. Histidine residues in the His tag bind to the vacant positions in the coordination sphere of the immobilized nickel ions with high specificity and affinity. For example cleared cell lysates containing a His tagged recombinant protein may be loaded onto a Ni NTA agarose. His tagged proteins are bound and other proteins pass through the matrix. After washing His tagged proteins are eluted in buffer under native or denaturing conditions.

For purposes of the present invention the term nucleic acid and the term polynucleotide as used interchangeably herein refer to polymers of nucleotides of any length and include DNA and RNA. The nucleic acid bases that form nucleic acid molecules can be the bases A C G T and U as well as derivatives thereof. Derivatives of these bases are well known in the art. The term should be understood to include as equivalents analogs of either DNA or RNA made from nucleotide analogs. The term as used herein also encompasses cDNA that is complementary or copy DNA produced from an RNA template for example by the action of reverse transcriptase. A polynucleotide may comprise modified nucleotides such as methylated nucleotides and their analogs.

For purposes of the present invention the term oligomer when used in the context of a protein and or polypeptide refers to but is not limited to a protein or polypeptide having at least two subunits. Oligomers include but are not limited to dimers trimers tetramers pentamers hexamers heptamers octamers nonamers decamers and the like. An oligomer can be a macromolecular complex formed by non covalent bonding of few macromolecules like proteins or nucleic acids. In this sense a homo oligomer would be formed by few identical molecules and by contrast a hetero oligomer would be made of three different macromolecules.

For purposes of the present invention the term operably linked the term operably associated and the term functionally linked are used interchangeably and refer to a functional relationship between two or more DNA segment. Particularly operably linked may refer to place a first nucleic acid sequence in a functional relationship with the second nucleic acid sequence. For example a promoter enhancer sequence including any combination of cis acting transcriptional control elements is operably associated to a coding sequence if the promoter enhancer sequence affects the transcription or expression of the coding sequence in an appropriate host cell or other expression system. Promoter regulatory sequences that are operably linked to the transcribed gene sequence are physically contiguous to the transcribed sequence.

For purposes of the present invention the term optimize refers to determining conditions for the maximal production of gp140 protein in the culture medium. Optimization of gp140 protein may involve modification of the amino acid sequence of a gp140 to determine conditions for the maximal production of modified gp140 protein in the culture medium.

For purposes of the present invention the term optimized polypeptide refers to an polypeptide that is not a naturally occurring peptide polypeptide or protein such as a non naturally occurring viral polypeptide e.g. a gp140 polypeptide of the invention . Optimized viral polypeptide sequences are initially generated by modifying the amino acid sequence of one or more naturally occurring viral gene products e.g. peptides polypeptides and proteins e.g. a viral Env polypeptide e.g. a viral Env1 Env2 and or Env3 polypeptide . Thus the optimized viral polypeptide may correspond to a parent viral gene sequence alternatively the optimized viral polypeptide may not correspond to a specific parent viral gene sequence but may correspond to analogous sequences from various strains or quasi species of a virus. Modifications to the viral gene sequence that can be included in an optimized viral polypeptide include amino acid additions substitutions and deletions.

For purposes of the present invention the term polymer refers to a compound or a mixture of compounds comprising many repeating subunits known as monomers.

For purposes of the present invention the term polypeptide and the term protein are used interchangeably herein to refer to a polymer of amino acid residues. The terms encompass amino acid polymers in which one or more amino acid residues are artificial chemical mimetic of a corresponding naturally occurring amino acids as well as to naturally occurring amino acid polymers and non naturally occurring amino acid polymer.

For purposes of the present invention the term promoter refers to a regulatory DNA sequence generally located upstream of a gene that mediates the initiation of transcription by directing RNA polymerase to bind to DNA and initiating RNA synthesis. A promoter may be a constitutive promoter or an inducible promoter. A constitutive promoter e.g. a viral promoter is always active. For example human cytomegalovirus CMV promoter drives constitutive protein expression in organisms such as human cells. An inducible promoter is not always active. Some inducible promoters are activated by physical means such as the heat shock promoter.

For purposes of the present invention the term protomer refers to a structural unit of an oligomeric protein. Protomer describes the fact that in oligomeric proteins some subunits are closer together structurally and work closer together functionally than others. For example an HIV Env trimer encompasses three molecules of heterodimer that is formed by a gp120 subunit and a gp41 subunit each dimer encompassing a gp120 and a gp41 may be called a protomer.

For purposes of the present invention the term protein purification refers to a series of processes intended to isolate one or a few proteins from a complex mixture such as cell culture media cells tissues or whole organisms etc. Usually a protein purification protocol contains one or more chromatographic steps. The basic procedure in chromatography is to flow the solution containing the protein through a column packed with various materials. Different proteins interact differently with the column material and can thus be separated by the time required to pass the column or the conditions required to elute the protein from the column. Many purification strategies exist. For example a protein can be attached with an antigen peptide tag by engineering and be purified using an antibody against the antigen peptide tag. Usually during purification the protein with an antigen peptide tag can be added on a column loaded with resin that is coated with an antibody or by incubating with a loose resin that is coated with an immobilizing antibody. This particular procedure is known as immunoprecipitation. Immunoprecipitation is quite capable of generating an extremely specific interaction which usually results in binding only the desired protein. The purified tagged proteins can then easily be separated from the other proteins in solution and later eluted back into clean solution.

For purposes of the present invention the term purified refers to the component in a relatively pure state e.g. at least about 90 pure or at least about 95 pure or at least about 98 pure.

For purposes of the present invention the term recombinant vaccine refers to a vaccine made by genetic engineering the process and method of manipulating the genetic material of an organism. Usually a recombinant vaccine encompasses one or more protein antigens that have either been produced and purified in a heterologous expression system e.g. bacteria or yeast or purified from large amounts of the pathogenic organism. The vaccinated person produces antibodies to the one or more protein antigens thus protecting him her from disease.

For purposes of the present invention the term recombinant refers to a genetic material formed by a genetic recombination process. A recombinant protein is made through genetic engineering. A recombinant protein is coded by a DNA sequence created artificially. A recombinant protein is a protein that is coded by a recombinant nucleic acid sequence. A recombinant nucleic acid sequence has a sequence from two or more sources incorporated into a single molecule.

For purposes of the present invention the term regulatory region refers to a segment of a nucleic acid molecule which is capable of increasing or decreasing the expression of specific genes within an organism. A regulatory sequence may include enhancer silencer operator and promoter regions which regulate the transcription of the gene into an mRNA.

For purposes of the present invention the term secretion and the term secretion of a protein or refers to transport a protein synthesized by a cell from intracellular of the cell into the extracellular space.

For purposes of the present invention the term secretion signal peptide the term secretion peptide the term signal peptide and the term secretion signal sequence are used interchangeably and refer to a short about 5 30 amino acids long peptide present at the amino terminus N terminus of secreted and membrane bound proteins. A secretion signal peptide present at a majority of newly synthesized proteins that are destined towards the secretory pathway. A signal peptide directs a newly synthesized protein to the secretory pathway. The cleavage of the signal peptide from a mature protein may occur during or after completion of translocation to generate a free signal peptide and a mature protein. The free signal peptides are then digested by specific proteases. The signal peptide consists of three regions an amino terminal polar region N region where frequently positive charged amino acid residues are observed a central hydrophobic region H region of 7 8 amino acid residues and a carboxy terminal region C region that includes the cleavage site.

For purposes of the present invention the term solid matrix refers to a solid phase such as a gel matrix often of agarose used in affinity purification of a protein. For example a ligand such as a nickel Ni can be coupled to an agarose to form a Ni based agarose bead. During affinity purification process molecules of interest such as a His tagged target protein or its oligomer can be trapped or captured on a Ni based agarose bead and be separated from a mixture containing the His tagged target protein. The trapped molecules of interest can be then released from the Ni based agarose in a process known as elution.

For purposes of the present invention the term steric hindrance refers to the prevention or retardation of inter molecule interactions as a result of the spatial structure of a molecule. Steric hindrance occurs when the 3 dimensional 3 D shape of a molecule in large size prevents ready access to the molecule in large size by a molecule in smaller size. For example a peptide fragment such as a protein tag within a large protein molecule may be sterically hindered to bind to a binding molecule because the 3 D conformation or shape of the large protein molecule blocks the access of the binding molecule to the peptide fragment.

For purposes of the present invention the term stimulate the term immuno stimulate refers to induce the activation or increase the activity of any components in an immune system. For example T cell activation requires at least two signals to become fully activated. The first occurs after engagement of the T cell antigen specific receptor TCR by the antigen major histocompatibility complex MHC and the second by subsequent engagement of co stimulatory molecules. Once stimulated the T cells will recognize the antigen or vaccine used during stimulation or activation of the T cells.

For purposes of the present invention the term STREP TAG II refers to an eight residue minimal peptide sequence Trp Ser His Pro Gln Phe Glu Lys that exhibits intrinsic affinity toward streptavidin and can be fused to recombinant proteins in various fashions.

For purposes of the present invention the term subunit refers to a separate polypeptide chain that makes a certain protein which is made up of two or more polypeptide chains joined together. In a protein molecule composed of more than one subunit each subunit can form a stable folded structure by itself. The amino acid sequences of subunits of a protein can be identical similar or completely different.

For purposes of the present invention the term tag the term peptide tag and the term protein tag refer to but are not limited to a polypeptide sequence that can be added to another polypeptide sequence for a variety of purposes. In certain exemplary embodiments a protein tag may be removed from a larger polypeptide sequence when it is no longer needed. Protein tags include but are not limited to affinity tags epitope tags etc. Affinity tags are appended to proteins so that they can be purified from their crude biological source using an affinity technique. For example an His tag is a widely used protein tag. An His tag has a DNA sequence specifying a string of six to nine histidine residues and is frequently used in vectors for production of recombinant protein. The result is expression of a recombinant protein with an His tag such as a 6 His tag fused to N or C terminus of the recombinant protein. Expressed His tagged proteins can be purified and detected easily because the string of histidine residues binds to several types of immobilized metal ions including nickel cobalt and copper under specific buffer conditions. In addition anti His tag antibodies are commercially available for use in assay methods involving His tagged proteins. In either case the tag provides a means of specifically purifying or detecting the recombinant protein without a protein specific antibody or probe. Other affinity tags include but are not limited to chitin binding protein CBP maltose binding protein MBP glutathione s transferase GST and the like. Epitope tags are short peptide sequences which are chosen because high affinity antibodies can be reliably produced in many different species. Epitope tags may be used in antibody purification. In some situations after purification tags are commonly removed by approaches such as specific proteolysis etc.

For purposes of the present invention the term tagged protein refers to a recombinant protein that is fused with a tag.

For purposes of the present invention the term target refers to a living organism or a biological molecule to which some other entity such as a small molecule like a ligand or an antibody is directed and or binds.

For purposes of the present invention the term transfection refers to a variety of art recognized techniques for introducing foreign nucleic acid e.g. DNA into a host cell by calcium phosphate or calcium chloride co precipitation DEAE dextran mediated transfection lipofection e.g. using commercially available reagents such as for example LIPOFECTIN Invitrogen Corp. San Diego Calif. LIPOFECTAMINE Invitrogen FUGENE Roche Applied Science Basel Switzerland JETPEI Polyplus transfection Inc. New York N.Y. EFFECTENE Qiagen Valencia Calif. DREAMFECT OZ Biosciences France and the like electroporation e.g. in vivo electroporation etc. Suitable methods for transfecting host cells can be found in Sambrook et al. Molecular Cloning A Laboratory Manual. 2nd ed. Cold Spring harbor Laboratory Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press Cold Spring Harbor N.Y. 1989 and other laboratory manuals.

For purposes of the present invention the term trimer refers to a protein trimer. A protein trimer is a macromolecular complex formed by three macromolecules like proteins. A homo trimer would be formed by three identical molecules. A hetero trimer is formed by three different macromolecules. For example a native and functional HIV 1 envelope glycoprotein Env complex is present on the virus surface as a trimer or trimeric HIV 1 envelope glycoproteins. The trimeric HIV 1 envelope glycoproteins Env that are displayed on human and simian immunodeficiency viruses HIV and SIV respectively are heterodimers of the transmembrane glycoprotein gp41 and a surface glycoprotein gp120 . The glycoproteins gp120 and gp41 are synthesized initially as a single gp160 polypeptide that is subsequently cleaved to generate the noncovalently associated gp120 gp41 complex.

For purposes of the present invention the term trimerization refers to a process of polymerization resulting in a trimer.

For purposes of the present invention the term truncation refers to elimination of the N or C terminal portion of a protein by proteolysis or manipulation of the structural gene or premature termination of protein elongation due to the presence of a termination codon in its structural gene as a result of a nonsense mutation.

For purposes of the present invention the term uncleaved refers to refers to a protein or polypeptide that is not cleaved by furin. For example the furin cleavage site REKR between a gp120 and gp41 may be mutated to SEKS which results in a gp140 that is not cleaved into gp120 and gp41 by furin.

For purposes of the present invention the term vaccine refers to a biological compound or an agent used to improve immunity to a particular disease. The agent injected into a human or animal body stimulates the body s immune system to recognize the agent as foreign destroy it and keep a record of it so that the immune system can more easily recognize and destroy any of these microorganisms that it later encounters. For example an HIV vaccine improves the production of neutralizing anti HIV antisera.

For purposes of the present invention the term vector and the term suitable vector refer to any vehicle used to transfer genetic material to a target cell such as a plasmid or a viral vector. A vector may also be cloning vector or expression vector. A vector may incorporate a nucleic acid sequence encoding a polypeptide or protein and any desired control sequences. It may bring about the expression of the nucleic acid sequence. The choice of the vector will typically depend on the compatibility of the vector with a host cell into which the vector is to be introduced. A vector may include but is not limited to a virus e.g. adenovirus or poxvirus naked DNA oligonucleotide cationic lipid e.g. liposome cationic polymer e.g. polysome virosome nanoparticle or dentrimer. The nucleic acid material of a viral vector may be encapsulated e.g. in a lipid membrane or by structural proteins e.g. capsid proteins that may include one or more viral polypeptides e.g. an envelope glycoprotein . The viral vector can be used to infect cells of a subject which in turn promotes the translation of the heterologous gene s of the viral vector into a protein product e.g. one or more of the recombinant gp140 Env polypeptides described herein such that a stabilized trimer of the invention is formed .

For purposes of the present invention the term virus refers to an infectious agent that is unable to grow or reproduce outside a host cell and that infects mammals e.g. humans or birds.

For purposes of the present invention the term wild type and the term native when made in reference to a gene refers to a gene that has the characteristics of a gene isolated from a naturally occurring source. The term wild type and the term native when made in reference to a gene product refers to a gene product that has the characteristics of a gene product isolated from a naturally occurring source. The term naturally occurring as applied to an object refers to the fact that an object can be found in nature. A wild type gene is frequently that gene which is most frequently observed in a population and is thus arbitrarily designated the normal or wild type form of the gene.

Embodiments disclosed herein provide an approach to capture various forms of recombinant HIV 1 envelope protein gp140 and recombinant gp140 trimers. A recombinant HIV 1 gp140 can be engineered based on an HIV 1 envelope sequence from any different clades or strains of HIV 1. In some embodiments engineered HIV 1 envelope protein gp140 from different clades or strains of HIV 1 are purified from a culture medium under mild conditions that cause minimal if any perturbation to the structure of oligomeric state of gp140.

AIDS acquired immune deficiency syndrome caused by the human immunodeficiency virus 1 HIV 1 is a global epidemic. More than 30 million people worldwide currently live with HIV infection and nearly 2 million people die of AIDS every year. Nine genetic subtypes and numerous circulating recombinant forms have been identified. Coupled with this diversity is the extraordinary evolution of the viral envelope protein Env in response to host immune pressures. Designing an Env immunogen that can stimulate antibodies Abs which in turn can block entry of genetically diverse HIV 1 viruses has remained as the holy grail of the HIV vaccine field.

The trimeric Env spike of the HIV 1 virion is the virus entry machine. A trimeric Env spike of the HIV 1 virion is a trimer of hetero dimer composed of glycoproteins gp120 and gp41 produced by cleavage of the precursor protein gp160.The gp41 is a transmembrane glycoprotein displayed on the surface of the viral membrane. The entry of HIV 1 involves a series of well orchestrated interactions between these proteins and the receptor molecules present on the target cell.The first step might be the capture of the virus through interactions between the V1V2 domain of gp120 and a surface molecule such as the 4 7 integrin of the mucosal T lymphocytes.This first step might bring the virus into close proximity to CD4 the primary receptor for HIV 1. Binding to CD4 causes a conformational change in gp120 exposing a site in the V3 domain that binds to the chemokine co receptor CCR5 or CXCR4A series of conformational changes ensue resulting in the insertion of the gp41 fusion peptide into the host cell membrane.The viral lipid bilayer fuses with the plasma membrane releasing the nucleocapsid core into the target cell.Therefore Env specific Abs that can interfere with any of the steps common to diverse HIV 1 viruses can prevent transmission of HIV into the host.

Several human monoclonal Abs mAbs referred to as broadly neutralizing Abs BnAbs have been discovered that can neutralize infection of a large spectrum of genetically diverse HIV 1 viruses. These include for instance BnAbs b12 and VRC01 that bind to the CD4 binding site bs of gp120 2F5 and 4E10 that bind to the membrane proximal external region MPER of gp41 and PG9 and PG16 that bind to the V1V2 domains of the trimer.Most of these Abs recognize conformational epitopes and are produced either by elite controller individuals with chronic HIV infections or by selection of rare B cell clones present in HIV 1 infected individuals.They also exhibit unusual features such as the presence of a long heavy chain 3 complementarity determining region CDR covering a large area of the epitope as well as dozens of somatic mutations introduced by a process known as affinity maturation driven by the evolving envelope protein.Attempts to induce such BnAbs in animal models or in humans by vaccination with recombinant Env immunogens have thus far failed.

One reason for this failure may be that the subunit Env immunogens do not recapitulate the trimeric structure of the native Env spike present on the HIV 1 virion.It has been hypothesized that exposure to native trimers can lead to activation and expansion of rare B cell clones of the right BnAb lineage.Furthermore such a trimer can also be used as a scaffold to engineer variants that represent a common structure present in diverse HIV 1 strains. However production of Env trimers that mimic the native spike has remained a challenge in part because the recombinant trimers either are unstable or aggregate.

Recently Ringe et al discovered that an HIV 1 subtype A isolate BG505 naturally produces relatively stable trimers.By further stabilizing the trimer with mutations that crosslink cleaved gp120 and gp41 through a disulfide bond SOSIP mutations native like trimers are produced.These native like trimers are then captured by the BnAb 2G12 and purified.The structures of the trimers complexed with various BnAbs are determined by cryo electron microscopy EM and X ray crystallography.However this Ab based approach has inherent limitations since the gp140 structure and it epitope signatures vary from one HIV strain to another because of the amino acid sequence differences HIV envelope protein is frequently mutated . Thus this Ab based approach is not as effective with diverse HIV 1 strains that might differ in the epitope signature.For example to create the epitope binding site for 2G12 the wild type BG505 gp140 is mutated by changing Thr332 to Asn.Moreover the BnAb 2G12 is not readily available prohibitively expensive and not practical for vaccine manufacture.

Based on investigations on the design of HIV 1 Env immunogens and efficient vaccine delivery systems embodiments of the present invention provide a new system to isolate and characterize Env trimers potentially from any HIV 1 virus strain. First an Env recombinant protein is constructed by attaching a highly specific tag such as an eight amino acid aa STREP TAG II separated from the carboxy terminus C terminus of a recombinant gp140 by a long linker. The long linker makes the highly specific tag accessible for binding by a binding molecule bound on a solid matrix. The Env recombinant protein can be efficiently captured by a bind molecule such as STREP TACTIN a specially engineered streptavidin ligand directly from a culture medium culture supernatant . The Env recombinant protein bound to STREP TACTIN can then be dissociated under mild conditions to generate 95 pure Env recombinant protein in a single step. Second embodiments of the present invention develop a screening strategy to optimize any Env recombinant protein construction for maximal trimer production. For example the JRFL Env gp140 selected by this approach produce 70 of recombinant gp140 as trimers. Third the cleaved JRFL Env recombinant trimers exhibit the classic three blade propeller shapeand their biochemical and antigenic properties are consistent with the native trimers. Fourth according to embodiments both cleavage and proper glycosylation are critical for maturation of recombinant gp140 into authentic trimers. Although recombinant gp140 can trimerize without cleavage uncleaved trimers enter aberrant pathways generating hyper glycosylated and conformationally heterogeneous particles. Finally the trimers including the cleaved propeller trimers show micro heterogeneity in the extent of gp41 glycosylation.

Tags such as hexa histidine or STREP TAG II SEQ ID NO 2 have often been fused to a protein of interest. A binding molecule that is specific to the tag and bound to a solid matrix such as an agarose bead can be used to capture the tag and the protein attached to it. However previous attempt to selectively capture and purify HIV 1 gp140 envelope protein by using either a hexa histidine tag or a STREP TAG fused to HIV 1 gp140 from a crude preparation II fails. The reason for the failure may be that a tag such as STREP TAG II or hexa histidine is occluded when it is attached to the base of the gp140 structure. Consequently the large STREP TACTIN beads used to capture the STREP TAG II or the Nickel beads used to capture the histidine tag may clash with the carboxy terminus of gp140 to which the tag is attached. The glycan shield containing up to 12 large complex glycans that are also attached to the carboxy terminal helix may make the tag even more sterically hindered which makes the clashes even worse.

According to some embodiments of the present invention separating a tag from the base of a gp140 envelope trimer by a long linker solves the problem that a tag is sterically hindered by the base of gp140. is a schematic diagram showing recombinant trimer of envelope gp140 protein fused to tag through long linker according to one embodiment of the present invention in comparison with a recombinant trimer of envelope gp140 protein fused to tag without long linker . As shown in tags not separated from the base of recombinant trimer are sterically hindered by the base of recombinant trimer of envelope gp140 protein and cannot be captured by binding molecule bound on solid matrix . Contrarily by being located further away from the base of recombinant trimer of envelope gp140 protein tag can be captured by binding molecule bound on solid matrix . Binding molecule specifically binds to tag and therefore catches recombinant trimer of envelope gp140 protein which is fused to tag through long linker . The separation of tag from the base of recombinant trimer of envelope gp140 protein through long linker allows the capture of near homogenous recombinant trimers directly from a culture medium under a mild condition. Recombinant trimer of envelope gp140 protein purified from the culture medium mimics a native HIV 1 envelope trimer. To capture recombinant trimer of envelope gp140 protein binding molecule may be a molecule that specifically interacts with tag such as a molecule of streptavidin nickel etc. Solid matrix may be an agarose bead. In some embodiment of the present invention beads may be contained in a chromatography column as a stationary phase to purify recombinant trimers.

Particularly in some embodiments a recombinant protein comprises a recombinant HIV 1 gp140 a linker and a tag wherein the recombinant HIV 1 gp140 is fused to the tag through the linker between the tag and C terminus of the recombinant HIV 1 gp140. The linker is long enough to make the tag accessible for finding by a binding molecule bound on a solid matrix or in other words the linker is sufficiently long so that the tag is accessible for binding by a binding molecule bound on a solid matrix. The length of the linker varies according to the needs of purifying different types of trimers. The linker may be a flexible linker or a rigid linker. Embodiments provide various linkers with different length. In some embodiments the linker may be 20 or more amino acids in length. In some embodiments the linker is 23 or more amino acids in length. In some embodiments the linker. In some embodiments the linker may be 27 or more amino acids in length. For example Foldon sequence SEQ ID NO 1 which has 27 amino acids can also be used as a linker.

The recombinant proteins can be expressed in cells and be secreted from the cells into culture medium in which the cells grow. To secret the recombinant protein from cells expressing the recombinant protein into cell culture medium in which the cells grow a secretion signal peptide may be attached to N terminus of the recombinant HIV 1 gp140. In some embodiments the secretion signal peptide is human CD5 secretion signal peptide. Once expressed in cells the recombinant protein is secreted into the culture medium in which the cells expressing the recombinant protein grow. The recombinant protein then assembles into recombinant trimers that mimic native HIV 1 envelope trimers.

The recombinant proteins and recombinant trimers assembled in culture medium are easy to be captured and purified with a binding molecule bound and immobilized on a solid matrix. The binding molecule that specifically targets to a tag separated from a recombinant gp140 protein or a recombinant trimer base by a linker will access the tag without steric hindrance. Therefore the binding molecule catches the recombinant gp140 fused to the tag. The binding molecule that is specific to a tag fused to a recombinant HIV 1 gp140 may be STREP TACTIN or Nickel beads. The solid matrix that the binding molecule bound on may be agarose beads. This approach allows the capture of near homogeneous recombinant gp140 and trimers directly from culture medium under a mild condition. Under mild condition the recombinant HIV 1 envelope trimer purified from the culture medium mimics a native HIV 1 envelope trimer.

Embodiments provide various linkers and tags as examples. For example tags may be a STREP TAG II SEQ ID NO 2 or a poly His tag such as an octa histidine His tag SEQ ID NO 3 a hexa histidine tag SEQ ID NO 4 etc. In some embodiments an octa histidine SEQ ID NO 3 tag is used instead of a hexa histidine tag SEQ ID NO 4 because the former is more specific than the latter. In some embodiments for example as shown in a linker is an Ala linker which comprises three alanines Ala at the N terminus of the linker sequence. The length of a linker to separate a tag from a recombinant gp140 varies according to the needs for purifying different types of recombinant gp140. In one embodiment the sequence of the linker comprises SEQ ID NO 5 which has 23 amino acids in length. In some embodiments a linker may have a sequence of SEQ ID NO 6 SEQ ID NO 7 SEQ ID NO 8 or SEQ ID NO 9 in which the linker comprising SEQ ID NO 8 is an HRV 3C flexible linker and the linker comprising SEQ ID NO 9 is an HRV 3c rigid linker. In some embodiment a linker may be a foldon sequence 27aa that has an amino acid sequence comprises SEQ ID. NO 1.

As illustrated in Panel B of a linker and a tag may be shown as an extended tag that encompasses both the sequence of a linker and the sequence of a tag. For example as extended tag may be Twin STREP TAG TSt HRV 3C Twin STREP TAG TSt 3C HRV 3C Twin STREP TAG TSt 3C Long linker Twin STREP TAG TSt LL HRV 3C Flexible linker octa His tag OHt FL 3C and HRV 3C Rigid linker octa His tag OHt RL 3C . Some of the linkers for example HRV 3C Twin STREP TAG TSt 3C and HRV 3C Twin STREP TAG TSt 3C comprise a portion of a sequence from a tag. This portion of sequence functions as a part of linker to extend the amino acid length between a tag and C terminus of a recombinant HIV 1 gp140.

Accordingly a series of recombinant proteins are engineered by fusing the gp140 C terminus to a tag such as a hexa histidine tag an octa histidine tag or a STREP TAG II tag with various linkers in the middle to separate the tag from the gp140 base. The recombinant HIV 1 gp140 may be derived from any HIV 1 gp140. For example in some embodiments the HIV 1 clade B JRFL gp140 and clade A BG505 gp140 sequences are used as templates to engineer the recombinant proteins respectively. Further in some embodiments a recombinant HIV 1 gp140 protein comprising a gp120 and a gp41 ectodomain may have a sequence truncated at amino acid residue 664 aa664 based on HXB2 numbering or at a position not beyond aa664. The gp120 and the gp41 ectodomain are joined via a junction sequence that contains a furin cleavage site REKR. In some embodiments the furin cleavage site REKR is mutated to SEKS and such mutation results in a recombinant gp140 that is furin cleavage resistant CR . In come embodiments the recombinant gp140 is furin cleavage proficient CP in which the furin cleavage site REKR is mutated to RRRRRR SEQ ID NO 13 .

According to some embodiments a recombinant HIV 1 gp140 may further comprise three SOSIP mutations that include A501C T605C and I559P. In some embodiments a recombinant HIV 1 gp140 may further comprise five stabilizing mutations which include I535M Q543L S553N K567Q and R588G. The A501C and T605C mutations create an intra protomer disulfide bond between gp120 and gp41. The I559P mutation is a point mutation wherein the isoleucine residue at position aa559 of a polypeptide chain of an HIV 1 gp140 is replaced by a proline residue. The I559P mutation strengthens inter subunit interactions.

Embodiments of the present invention also provide methods to produce recombinant trimers that mimic native HIV 1 Env trimers. The recombinant trimers can be purified from a culture medium for growing cells that express and secrete the recombinant proteins described above.

In some embodiment recombinant trimers are uncleaved recombinant trimers. Particularly the uncleaved recombinant trimers are assembled by a recombinant protein that is not cleaved by furin. This uncleaved recombinant protein comprises a recombinant HIV 1 gp140 fused to a tag through a linker. The linker is sufficiently long so that the tag is accessible for binding by a binding molecule bound on a solid matrix. The recombinant HIV 1 gp140 comprises two subunits a gp120 and a gp41 ectodomain that are connected together via a junction sequence also called a junction peptide . The gp41 ectodomain may further have a truncation at aa664 or have a truncation at a position not beyond aa664 based on HXB2 numbering. The junction sequence between the gp120 and gp41 ectodomain is absent of a furin cleavage site REKR but instead contains a furin cleavage resistant sequence SEKS. Therefore the recombinant HIV 1 gp140 are furin cleavage resistant and will not be cleaved by furin. To secret the recombinant protein into a culture medium a secretion signal peptide such as a human CD5 secretion signal peptide is fused at N terminus of the recombinant HIV 1 gp140. When the recombinant protein comprising a recombinant HIV 1 gp140 fused to a tag through a linker disclosed herein is expressed in a cell growing in a culture medium the recombinant protein is secreted from the cell into the culture medium and assembles into trimers in the culture medium.

Embodiments also provide cleaved trimers which are recombinant trimers of heterodimers composed of a cleaved gp120 and a cleaved gp41ectodomain. A tag is fused to C termimus of the cleaved g41 ectodomain through a linker. The cleaved gp120 and cleaved gp41 ectodomain are produced by a cleavage of a recombinant protein comprising a recombinant HIV 1 gp140 fused to a tag through a linker. The recombinant HIV 1 gp140 has a gp120 and a gp41 ectodomain connected by a junction sequence between the gp120 and the gp41 ectodomain. The junction sequence includes a furin cleavage site REKR. To improve cleavage efficiency the furin cleavage site REKR is mutated to RRRRRR SEQ ID NO 13 . The linker is long enough to make the tag accessible for finding by a binding molecule bound on a solid matrix or in other words the linker is sufficiently long so that the tag is accessible for binding by a binding molecule bound on a solid matrix. In some embodiments the linker has an amino acid sequence comprising 20 amino acids in length or longer. In some embodiments the linker has an amino acid sequence comprising 23 amino acids in length or longer. A secretion signal peptide such as a human CD5 secretion signal peptide is fused at N terminus of the recombinant HIV 1 gp140 fused to a tag for secretion of the recombinant protein into culture medium one the recombinant protein is expressed in cells growing in the culture medium. As a result when the recombinant protein is expressed in a cell the recombinant protein is secreted from the cell into a culture medium in which the cell grows and is cleaved by furin into a cleaved gp120 and a cleaved gp41ectodomain. The cleaved gp120 and the cleaved gp41 ectodomain form a heterodimer in which the cleaved gp120 and the cleaved gp41 ectodomain are covalently associated through a disulfide bond. The heterodimer assembles into trimers that mimic native HIV 1 envelope trimers in the culture medium. In the heterodimer the tag is fused to the C terminus of the cleaved gp41 ectodomain through the linker. The linker is long enough to separate the tag from the trimer base of the heterodimer as a result the tag is accessible for binding by a binding molecule bound on a solid matrix.

According to embodiments in both cleaved and uncleaved trimers a tag may be a STREP TAG II tag a hexa histidine tag or an octa histidine tag. A linker is in the middle of the tag and the recombinant HIV 1 gp140 and separates the tag from the recombinant gp140 base. The linker is long enough to make the tag accessible for finding by a binding molecule bound on a solid matrix or in other words the linker is sufficiently long so that the tag is accessible for binding by a binding molecule bound on a solid matrix. The linker may be flexible or rigid and varies in length according to the needs of purifying different types of trimers. In some embodiments a linker is 20 amino acids in length or longer. In some embodiments a linker is 23 amino acids in length or longer. In one embodiment a linker comprises a foldon sequence that is 27 amino acids in length SEQ ID NO 1 .

In producing both cleaved and uncleaved trimers three SOSIP mutations may be introduced into a sequence of an HIV 1 gp140 to construct a recombinant HIV 1 gp140. The SOSIP mutations include A501C T605C and I559P. In some embodiments the recombinant HIV 1 gp140 may also encompass five stabilizing mutations in comparing with a native HIV 1 gp140 . The five stabilizing mutations include I535M Q543L S553N K567Q and R588G. In some embodiments the recombinant HIV 1 gp140 is engineered based on the sequence of an HIV 1 clade B gp140 such as JRFL gp140 or SF162 gp140. In some embodiment the recombinant HIV 1 gp140 is engineered based on the sequence of an HIV 1 clade A gp140 such as BG505 gp140. For example embodiments provide a recombinant protein JRFL SOSIP 1 5 .R6.664 gp140 that is a Strep Tagged gp140 protein engineered by using an HIV 1 clade B JRFL gp140 as a template. The recombinant protein JRFL SOSIP 1 5 .R6.664 gp140 has an amino acid sequence corresponding to SEQ ID NO 10. Embodiments also provide a recombinant protein BG505 SOSIP.R6.664 gp140 which is a Strep Tagged gp140 protein engineered by using an HIV 1 clade A BG505 gp140 as a template. The recombinant protein BG505 SOSIP.R6.664 gp140 has an amino acid sequence corresponding to SEQ ID NO 11. Embodiments also provide a recombinant protein SF162 SOSIP.R6.664 gp140 is a Strep Tagged gp140 protein engineered by using an HIV 1 clade B SF162 gp140 as a template. The recombinant protein SF162 SOSIP.R6.664 gp140 has an amino acid sequence corresponding to SEQ ID NO 12.

In some embodiments a recombinant protein comprising a recombinant HIV 1 gp140 attached to a tag through a linker at C terminus of the recombinant HIV 1 gp140 is expressed in mammalian cell lines such as HEK293F 293F 293T 293EXPI CHO HEK293S GnTI GnTI etc. When the recombinant HIV 1 gp140 is expressed in cells growing in a culture medium the secretion signal peptide fused at the N terminus of the recombinant HIV 1 gp140 helps the recombinant protein translocate from inside the cells into the culture medium in which the recombinant protein assembles into trimers.

According to embodiments cells expressing a recombinant protein are transfected with a recombinant DNA encoding a recombinant protein comprising recombinant HIV 1 gp140 fused to a tag through a linker. The linker is sufficiently long so that the tag is accessible for binding by a binding molecule bound on a solid matrix. The linker may be flexible or rigid and varies in length according to the needs of purifying different trimers. In some embodiments the linker is at least 20 amino acids. In some embodiments the linker is 23 amino acids in length or longer. In one embodiment 293F cells are transfected with a recombinant DNA encoding a recombinant protein comprising recombinant HIV 1 gp140 fused to a tag through a linker. The recombinant protein may be expressed in the transfected 293F cells with a control of a promoter. The promoter may be a constitutive promoter or an inducible promoter. In one embodiment a promoter regulating the expression of the recombinant protein is promoter CMV. Once expressed the recombinant protein is secreted from the 293F cells into the culture medium and assembles into trimers in the culture medium. The recombinant protein without furin cleavage site will assembles into uncleaved trimers in the culture medium. The recombinant protein with a furin cleavage site including an enhanced furin cleavage site will be cleaved by furin into a cleaved gp120 and a cleaved gp41 ectodomain and form a heterodimer wherein the cleaved gp120 and the cleaved gp41 are covalently associated through a disulfide bond.

In one embodiment GnTI cells are transfected with a recombinant DNA encoding a recombinant protein comprising recombinant HIV 1 gp140 fused to a tag through a linker. The recombinant protein may be expressed in the transfected GnTI cells with a control of a promoter. The promoter may be a constitutive promoter or an inducible promoter. In one embodiment a promoter regulating the expression of the recombinant protein is promoter CMV. Once expressed or produced the recombinant protein is secreted from the GnTI cells into the culture medium. The recombinant protein without furin cleavage site will assembles into uncleaved trimers in the culture medium. The recombinant protein with a furin cleavage site including an enhanced furin cleavage site will be cleaved by furin into a cleaved gp120 and a cleaved gp41 ectodomain and form a heterodimer wherein the cleaved gp120 and the cleaved gp41 are covalently associated through a disulfide bond.

In some embodiments a recombinant DNA encoding a recombinant HIV 1 gp140 that has a furin cleavage site including an enhanced furin cleavage site RRRRRR is co transfected into cells with a recombinant DNA encoding a protein furin. Such co transfection enhances the cleavage efficiency and increases the production of heterodimers formed by cleaved gp120 and gp41 ectodomain.

According to embodiments a recombinant HIV 1 gp140 expressed in GnTi cells is partially glycosylated while a recombinant HIV 1 gp140 expressed in 293F cells is hyper glycosylated or fully glycosylated. In some embodiments the recombinant gp140 purified by the method disclosed herein is about 95 pure. According to embodiments cleavage of gp140 is not essential for trimerization but it triggers a conformational change that channels trimers into correct glycosylation pathways generating compact three blade propeller shaped trimers. Most uncleaved trimers enter aberrant pathways resulting in hyper glycosylation and conformational heterogeneity. Embodiments of the present invention establish a broadly applicable system for production and characterization of HIV 1 trimers and generate new insights into the assembly and maturation of HIV 1 trimers that will have implications to the design of an effective HIV vaccine. A vaccine developed from the recombinant trimer disclosed herein that mimics native spike may elicit entry blocking antibodies and prevent HIV infection.

Corresponding to recombinant proteins described above embodiments of the present invention also provide a recombinant DNA encoding a recombinant protein for making recombinant trimers that mimic native HIV 1 envelope trimers. Accordingly a recombinant DNA is constructed to encompass a nucleic acid sequence encoding a recombinant protein wherein the recombinant protein encompasses a recombinant HIV 1 gp140 fused to a tag through a peptide linker at C terminus of the recombinant HIV 1 gp140. The peptide linker is sufficiently long so that the tag is accessible for binding by a binding molecule bound on a solid matrix. In some embodiments the peptide linker has a length of 20 amino acids or longer. In some embodiments the peptide linker has a length of 23 amino acids or longer. A nucleic acid sequence encoding a secretion signal peptide is attached at 5 end of the sequence encoding the recombinant HIV 1 gp140. The recombinant DNA may be transfected into cells for expression of the fusion protein. Cells carrying the recombinant DNA after transfection may grow in a medium to allow the expression of the recombinant protein. The recombinant protein expressed in the cells is then secreted from the cells into culture medium and assembles into recombinant trimers that mimic native HIV 1 Env trimers.

According to embodiments of the present invention the peptide linker may vary in length according to the needs of purifying different types of trimers. The peptide linker is selected for separating the tag from the recombinant HIV 1 gp140 so that a binding molecule specifically target the tag will not be sterically hindered to access the tag. The peptide linker comprises an amino acid sequence that is long enough to make the tag accessible for binding by a binding molecule bound on a solid matrix and is flexible enough to freely expose the tag for capture by the binding molecule. Hence a peptide linker used to separate the tag and the recombinant HIV 1 gp140 may be flexible or rigid. In some embodiment a peptide linker is at least 20 amino acids in length. In some embodiment a peptide linker may have 23 amino acids in length. In some embodiment a peptide linker is longer than 23 amino acids in length. The nucleic acid sequence for a peptide linker may vary corresponding to the peptide linker selected. In some embodiments the amino acid sequence of the linker contains repeats of glycine as well as amino acids such as alanine and serine and proline. In some embodiments a peptide linker may have an amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO 5 SEQ ID NO 6 SEQ ID NO 7 SEQ ID NO 8 or SEQ ID NO 9 in which the peptide linker comprising SEQ ID NO 8 is an HRV 3C flexible linker and the peptide linker comprising SEQ ID NO 9 is an HRV 3c rigid linker. In some embodiment a peptide linker may be a foldon sequence 27aa that has an amino acid sequence comprises SEQ ID. NO 1.

A nucleic acid sequence of a tag may also vary according to need. For example a nucleic acid sequence of a tag may encode a STREP TAG II comprising SEQ ID NO 2 an octa histidine tag comprising SEQ ID NO 3 or a hexa histidine tag comprising SEQ ID NO 4.

Correspondingly the recombinant DNA in some embodiment encompasses a nucleic acid sequence encoding a recombinant HIV 1 gp140 comprising a gp120 and a gp41 ectodomain in which the gp120 and the gp41 ectodomain are joined together by a junction sequence containing a furin cleavage site REKR. In some embodiments the gp41 ectodomain is truncated at aa664 or a position not beyond aa664 based on HXB2 numbering. In some embodiments a nucleic acid sequence encoding a furin cleavage site REKR is mutated to encoding a sequence of SEKS resulting in producing a recombinant HIV 1 gp140 that is furin cleavage resistant. In some embodiments a nucleic acid sequence encoding a furin cleavage site REKR is mutated to encoding a sequence of RRRRRR resulting in producing a recombinant HIV 1 gp140 that is furin cleavage proficient.

In some embodiments a recombinant DNA has a nucleic acid sequence encoding a recombinant HIV 1 gp140 that has SOSIP mutations comprising A501C T605C and I559P. In some embodiments the recombinant DNA has a sequence encoding a recombinant HIV 1 gp140 that has both SOSIP mutations and stabilizing mutations. The stabilizing mutations include I535M Q543L S553N K567Q and R588G.

According to one embodiment of the present invention a nucleic acid sequence encoding a recombinant protein comprising a recombinant HIV 1 gp140 fused to a tag through a linker disclosed herein may be derived from any HIV 1 clade sequence. For example a recombinant DNA may have a nucleic acid sequence encoding a recombinant protein engineered based on a sequence of an HIV 1 clade B JRFL gp140 or HIV 1 clade B SF162 gp140. In another embodiment a recombinant DNA may have a nucleic acid sequence encoding a recombinant protein engineered based on a sequence of an HIV 1 clade A BG505 gp140. In one embodiment a recombinant DNA has a nucleic acid sequence encoding a recombinant protein comprising SEQ ID NO 10. In one embodiment a recombinant DNA has a nucleic acid sequence encoding a recombinant protein comprising SEQ ID NO 11. In one embodiment a recombinant DNA has a nucleic acid sequence encoding a recombinant protein comprising SEQ ID NO 12.

Embodiments further provide various vectors for expression the recombinant proteins comprising recombinant HIV 1 gp140 fused to a tag through a peptide linker disclosed herein may be called tagged HIV 1 gp140 . A vector may have a regulatory region operably linked to a nucleic acid sequence encoding a recombinant protein described above. The regulatory region regulates the expression of the recombinant protein in a cell carrying the vector. Once being expressed in cells carrying the vector and secreted into culture medium that the cells grow the recombinant protein has a capacity of assembly into recombinant trimers mimicking native HIV 1 Env trimers. In some embodiment the expression of the recombinant is regulated under a regulatory region comprising an inducible promoter and the recombinant protein is not consistently expressed in a cell carrying the vector but can be induced as needed. In some embodiment the expression of a recombinant protein described herein in a cell carrying the vector is controlled under a constitutively promoter. A cell carrying a vector comprising a constitutive promoter such as a CMV promoter will constitutively express the tagged recombinant HIV 1 gp140. In some embodiments a human cytomegalovirus CMV promoter locates at upstream of the nucleic acid sequence encoding a recombinant protein comprising a recombinant HIV 1 gp140 attached to a tag via a peptide linker. CMV promoter is a constitutive promoter and is always active.

Embodiments further provide various vectors comprising expression cassette to construct expression vectors for producing recombinant protein described herein. In some embodiments a vector comprising an expression cassette may comprise a regulatory region operably linked to a first nucleic acid sequence that encodes a secretion signal peptide. The first nucleic acid sequence is linked to a second nucleic acid sequence with an insertion region comprising two or more restriction sites. The insertion region is use for insertion a recombinant DNA encoding a recombinant HIV 1 gp140. The second nucleic acid sequence encodes a peptide linker and a tag. As a result a vector to express a recombinant protein described herein may be easily constructed by insertion a recombinant nucleic acid sequence encoding a recombinant HIV 1 gp140 using the two restriction sites in the insertion region. A recombinant nucleic acid sequence encoding a recombinant HIV 1 gp140 can be engineered by either overlap extension PCR or gene assembly PCR using appropriated set of primers and by modification of any HIV 1 clade gp140.

In some embodiments the insertion region has two restriction sites NheI and NotI. In some embodiments three alanines are located at N terminus of the linker. In some embodiments the sequence encoding a secretion signal peptide is a sequence encoding a human CD5 signal peptide. A promoter in the vector may be a constitutive promoter or an inducible promoter. A promoter may be a CMV promoter. In some embodiments the vector is a plasmid vector and can be transformed into bacteria to store or to amplify and can be transfected into mammalian cells to express the recombinant protein. The recombinant protein has the capacity to form recombinant trimers mimicking native HIV 1 envelop trimers. Once expressed in cells the recombinant protein can be secreted into cell culture medium and assemble into recombinant trimers.

Embodiments provide methods to purify recombinant trimers described herein. According to embodiments the material used to capture a recombinant HIV 1 envelope protein gp140 and recombinant trimers may be a binding molecule bound or immobilized on a solid matrix such as agarose beads. Binding molecules may be SREP TACTIN nickel etc.

In some embodiments purification of the recombinant proteins or trimers may be carried out by centrifugation. In some embodiments purification of the recombinant proteins or trimers is carried out by affinity chromatography and by size exclusion chromatography SEC and the size exclusion chromatography is conducted after the affinity chromatography is conducted.

In some embodiments of the present invention purification is achieved by column chromatography. By this approach a binding molecule bound on a solid matrix is packed onto a column and a culture medium containing the recombinant protein or the recombinant trimer runs through the column to allow the recombinant protein or the recombinant trimer bind to the binding molecule. Subsequently a wash buffer runs through the column and an elution buffer is applied to the column to elute the recombinant protein or the recombinant trimer from the solid matrix.

Alternatively in some embodiments purification of the recombinant protein or the recombinant trimer is done by using a batch treatment. A binding molecule bound and immobilized on a solid matrix is added into a culture medium containing the recombinant protein or the recombinant trimer in a container. After mixing the recombinant protein or the recombinant trimer binds to the binding molecule and can be separated from the culture medium by centrifugation. For example STREP TACTIN beads may be added to a culture medium containing recombinant trimers comprising STREP TAG to form a bead mixture allowing the binding between the STREP TACTIN beads and the recombinant trimers. The STREP TACTIN beads bound to the recombinant trimers may be then separated from the culture medium by centrifugation. Bounded trimers may further be eluted with elution buffer. Alternatively the STREP TACTIN beads bound to the recombinant trimers or the recombinant proteins may be packed onto a column followed with washing and elution on the column packed with the STREP TACTIN beads to purify the recombinant trimers or the recombinant proteins.

Embodiments of the present invention demonstrate that the linker approach is highly effective to directly capture a recombinant protein comprising a recombinant HIV 1 gp140 from a culture medium. In some embodiments STREP TACTIN beads are directly added to a cell culture medium into which the recombinant protein is secreted. The beads that bind the recombinant protein may be separated by simple centrifugation. The recombinant protein bound on the beads may be then eluted using mild buffer conditions such as conditions containing desthiobiotin. Similarly in some embodiments the recombinant HIV 1 gp140 attached to an octa histidine tag with a long linker in the middle is captured by Nickel beads. The recombinant HIV 1 gp140 bound on the Nickel beads is eluted with imidazole. In some embodiments the linker is effective when it is 23 amino acids or longer and both a flexible linker and a rigid linker are equally effective in capturing a recombinant gp140. In some embodiments a linker comprises a foldon sequence of SEQ ID NO 7. The foldon sequence has a length of 27 amino acids.

In some embodiments the recombinant HIV 1 gp140 for producing the recombinant trimers comprises three SOSIP mutations in comparing with a native HIV 1 gp140 . The three SOSIP mutations include A501C T605C and I559P. In some embodiments a recombinant HIV 1 gp140 may further encompass five stabilizing mutations in comparing with a native HIV 1 gp140 . The five stabilizing mutations include I535M Q543L S553N K567Q and R588G.

According to embodiments a variety of recombinant gp140 variants cleaved uncleaved partially glycosylated fully glycosylated from clades A and B are purified by this approach. Upon purification and optimization recombinant trimers that mimic native HIV 1 Env trimers are obtained. Since the structure of the HIV 1 trimer base is conserved among different HIV viruses this approach can be broadly applied to produce recombinant gp140 and recombinant trimers from any HIV 1 clade or strain wherein the recombinant trimers mimic native trimers of various HIV 1 clade or strains.

Therefore embodiments of the present invention develop a new and simple approach to produce HIV 1 envelope trimers. In some embodiments the C terminus of gp140 is attached to a tag such as STREP TAG II with a long linker separating the tag from the massive trimer base and glycan shield. This allows a capture of near homogenous gp140 directly from the supernatant of culture medium. Extensive biochemical characterizations show that cleavage of gp140 is not essential for trimerization but it triggers a conformational change that channels trimers into correct glycosylation pathways generating compact three blade propeller shaped trimers. Uncleaved trimers enter aberrant pathways resulting in hyper glycosylation nonspecific crosslinking and conformational heterogeneity. Even the cleaved trimers show micro heterogeneity in gp41 glycosylation.

Embodiments of the present invention are further defined in the following examples. It should be understood that these examples are given by way of illustration only. From the above discussion and these examples one skilled in the art can ascertain the essential characteristics of embodiments of the present invention. Without departing from the spirit and scope thereof one skilled in the art can make various changes and modifications of the invention to adapt it to various usages and conditions. Although specific terms have been employed herein such terms are intended in a descriptive sense and not for purposes of limitation. All publications including patents and non patent literature referred to in this specification are expressly incorporated by reference herein.

The following reagents are obtained through the NIH AIDS Reagent Program Division of AIDS NIAID NIH HIV 1 gp120 Monoclonal Antibody 2G12 from Dr. Hermann Katinger HIV 1 gp120 MAb VRC01 from Dr. John Mascola PGT 121 Cat 12343 HIV 1 gp41 Monoclonal Antibody F240 and HIV 1 gp120 Monoclonal Antibody F105 from Dr. Marshall Posner and Dr. Lisa Cavacini. The PG9 PG16 PGT145 PGT151 and b6 are obtained from Scripps Research Institute and International AIDS Vaccine Initiative Neutralizing Antibody Center IAVI NAC . Polyclonal Bas against HIV 1 JREL gp140 are raised in mice in our laboratory.

The furin expressing plasmid Furin FLAG pGEM7Zf is obtained from Dr. Gary Thomas Vollum Institute Portland Oreg. . The furin fragment from this plasmid is sub cloned into pcDNA3.1 Life Technologies using EcoRI and HindIII restriction sites.

Codon optimized gp140 DNAs from JRFL FD SF162 FD and CONPEP FD are provided by Dr. Peter Kwong Vaccine Research Center NIH . These DNAs contained the sequence corresponding to gp120 and gp41 ectodomain up to aa683. In addition they have human CD5 secretion signal at the 5 end furin cleavage resistant mutation SEKS at the junction of gp120 and gp41 and bacteriophage T4 fibritin trimerization motif followed by the hexa histidine tag at the C terminus.Using the JRFL FD as the starting template a series of additional mutations are introduced. These include for instance SOSIP mutations stabilizing mutations enhanced furin cleavage site RRRRRR and various truncations shown in and in the following examples. JRFL gp120 clone is also constructed from the same template by polymerase chain reaction PCR amplification of the appropriate sequence corresponding to gp120.

BG505 BG505.W6M.ENV.C2 gp140 envelope sequence is codon optimized and the optimized sequence is synthesized using the GenArt Strings technology Life Technologies . During this process a series of mutations are also introduced as follows Asn at aa332 to introduce an N linked glycosylation site that allows binding of BG505 gp140 to 2G12 BnAb SOSIP RRRRRR and various other mutations described in the following examples.

A series of modified pcDNA3.1 vectors are constructed each containing CD5 secretion signal a liker containing three alanines and various Strep Tag II and Octa histidine tags described in the following examples. Restriction sites NheI and NotI are introduced in between the CD5 signal and the alanine linker. These plasmid vector DNAs isolated from 5 alpha competent cells New England BioLabs Inc. are digested with NheI and NotI and dephosphorylated with FastAP alkaline phosphatase Life Technologies .

The gp140 and gp120 clones recombinant DNA encoding recombinant HIV 1 gp140 are constructed by either overlap extension PCRor gene assembly PCRusing appropriate sets of primers. Restriction sites for NheI and NotI are introduced into the end primers. The amplified DNAs are digested with NheI and NotI and purified by agarose gel electrophoresis. The DNAs are then ligated with the NheI NotI digested and dephosphorylated pcDNA3.1 plasmid DNA. Directional insertion of gp140 DNA results in the in frame fusion of gp140 with CD5 signal peptide at the N terminus and the alanine linker followed by various tags at the C terminus see Panel B .

The gp140 and gp120 clones are transformed into 5 alpha competent cells New England BioLabs Inc and the plasmid DNAs are purified using the GeneJET plasmid miniprep kit Life Technologies . The DNAs are then sequenced to confirm 100 accuracy of the cloned gp140 DNA. For transfection into mammalian cells the plasmid DNAs are purified using the GeneJET plasmid midiprep kit Life Technologies as per the manufacturer s instructions.

Suspension cells HEK293F Life Technologies and HEK293S GnTI ATCC CRL 3022 are maintained in FreeStyle 293 expression medium Life Technologies . The cells are incubated in a Multitron Pro shaker Infors HT at 37 C. in 8 CO. In the case of HEK293S GnTI the growth medium is supplemented with 1 heat inactivated fetal bovine serum FBS Quality Biologicals . For transfection cells are grown overnight to a density of 1 10cells per ml. Two hours prior to transfection 6 ml cultures are centrifuged at 100 g for 5 min and resuspended in fresh medium to a density of 3 10cells per ml in the absence of FBS. Three ml of cells are then transferred to each well of a 16.8 ml 6 Well Clear Not Treated plates Corning Inc. . For CR and gp120 DNA 6 g of gp140 plasmid DNA is added to the cells followed by the addition of linear polyethylenimine PEI25k Polyscience Inc. to a PEI DNA wt wt ratio of 3 1. For CP DNA the cells are cotransfected with 3 g of furin plasmid DNA. The cells are then incubated at 37 C. in 8 COwhile shaking at 130 r.p.m. overnight. After 12 h 2 ml of fresh medium 1 ml HyClone SFM4HEK293 medium GE Healthcare and protein expression enhancing sodium butyrate SIGMA ALDRICH to a final concentration of 2 nM are added to the cells. On day 5 the supernatant is harvested and clarified using a 0.2 m filter Corning Inc. .

Transfection is carried out similar to the small scale transfection but it is scaled up to 1.2 L cultures in a 2.8 L flask and incubated at 37 C. in 8 COwhile shaking at 90 r.p.m.

To inactivate biotin present in the supernatant 20 l of Bio Lock biotin blocking solution iba Life Sciences is added to 5 ml of the supernatant containing the secreted gp140 or gp120 . After 30 min incubation at 4 C. 100 l of STREP TACTIN beads Qiagen are added and allowed to rotate overnight at 4 C. The bead mixture is spun down at 200 r.p.m. to pellet the beads. The beads are then applied to a spin column PIERCE and briefly centrifuged to remove residual supernatant and then washed twice with 50 mM Tris HCl pH 8 and 300 mM NaCl. The bound gp140 or gp120 proteins are eluted with 200 l of STREP TACTIN elution buffer 2.5 mM d Desthiobiotin SIGMA 25 mM Tris HCl pH 8 and 150 mM NaCl .

To prevent nonspecific protease degradation protease inhibitor tablets Roche Diagnostics are added to the clarified supernatant according to manufacturer s instructions. To inactivate free biotin present in the culture medium BioLock biotin blocking solution iba Life Sciences is added and the medium is incubated at 4 C. for 30 min. The gp140 is purified by STREP TACTIN affinity chromatography followed by size exclusion chromatography SEC . The supernatants are loaded onto a 1 ml STREP TACTIN column Qiagen at 0.7 ml min using the KTA prime plus liquid chromatography system GE Healthcare . Nonspecifically bound proteins are washed off by passing at least 20 column volumes of wash buffer 50 mM Tris HCl pH 8 and 300 mM NaCl until the absorbance reaches baseline level. The Strep Tagged gp140 proteins are then eluted with elution buffer 2.5 mM d Desthiobiotin SIGMA 25 mM Tris HCl pH 8 and 150 mM NaCl at a flow rate of 1 ml min. The peak fractions are pooled and concentrated using 100 kDa MWCO Amicon Ultra 4 centrifugal filter units Millipore . The samples are then applied to a Hi Load 16 600 Superdex 200 prep grade size exclusion column GE Healthcare equilibrated with the gel filtration buffer 25 mM Tris HCl pH 8 150 mM NaCl . Chromatography is done using the KTA FPLC system GE Healthcare and fractions are collected and stored in 10 glycerol at 80 C.

The gp140 clones fused to hexa histidine or octa histidine tags are purified by HisTrap affinity chromatography followed by SEC. The culture supernatant is loaded onto a 1 ml HisTrap HP column GE Healthcare at a flow rate of 0.7 ml min using the KTA prime plus liquid chromatography system GE Healthcare . Nonspecifically bound proteins are removed using a buffer containing 50 mM Tris HCl pH 8 300 mM NaCl and 20 mM imidazole until the absorbance reached baseline level. The proteins are then eluted using a 20 500 mM imidazole gradient. The peak fractions are then applied to Hi Load 16 600 Superdex 200 prep grade size exclusion column GE Healthcare and purified as described above.

SDS PAGE analyses are performed using 4 20 gradient Tris glycine gels Life Technologies or home made 10 gels in the presence reducing or absence non reducing of DTT. The BLUEstain protein ladder 11 245 kDa a three color protein standard with prestained proteins covering a wide range molecular weights produce by Gold Biotechnology is used as a molecular weight MW marker. BN PAGE is performed using the Novex NativePAGE Bis Tris gel system in 4 16 gradient gels according to manufacturer s instructions Life Technologies . In the case of JRFL FD a native 4 12 gradient Tris Glycine gel Life Technologies is used with Tris Glycine buffer Bio Rad . The NativeMark unstained protein standard Life Technology is used as the MW marker. All gels are stained with Coomassie blue R 250 solution.

SEC purified gp140 trimers are incubated with 10 fold serial dilutions 1 0.001 g ml of Proteinase K Thermo Scientific at 37 C. for 1 h. The same preparation incubated at 4 C. and 37 C. without protease is used as a negative control. The samples are electrophoresed on reducing SDS gels for cleavage resistant gp140 and non reducing SDS gels for cleavage proficient gp140.

For STREP TACTIN purified gp140 1 l 500 Units of PNGase F New England BioLabs Inc. is used to deglycosylate 10 g of protein in the absence of DTT following manufacturer s instructions. For SEC purified trimers deglycosylation is performed under native conditions using 3 l 1 500 Units of PNGase F per 10 g of protein and by incubating for 5 h at room temperature.

STREP TACTIN coated microplates iba Life Sciences are coated with 1 g ml SEC purified gp140 trimers in a volume of 100 l per well of buffer 25 mM Tris HCl pH 7.6 2 mM EDTA and 140 mM NaCl and incubated for 2 h at room temperature. Following 3 washes with PBST 0.05 Tween 20 in PBS 100 l of serially diluted antibodies 10 0.001 g ml in PBS are added to the wells and the plates are incubated for 1 h at 37 C. After 3 washes with PBST the plates are incubated with 100 l of rabbit anti human antibody Santa Cruz Biotechnology diluted 1 3 000 in PBS for 30 min at 37 C. After the final 3 washes with PBST the reaction is developed with peroxidase TMB Microwell Peroxidase Substrate system KPL . The reaction is terminated by adding 100 l of BlueSTOP solution KPL and ODis recorded using VersaMax ELISA Microplate Reader Molecular Devices .

Polyclonal mouse antibodies against HIV 1 gp140 prepared in our laboratory are used as the primary antibody and rabbit HRP conjugated anti mouse IgG H L is used as the secondary antibody Novex Life Technologies . For STREP TAG II detection StrepMAB Classic HRP conjugated antibody iba Life Sciences dilution 1 1 000 in PBS is used. Band intensities are measured using Biorad Gel doc XR System and Image Lab software.

Samples are diluted to 20 30 g ml and added to a glow discharged carbon coated grid. Samples are left on the grid for 2 min blotted with a filter paper and stained with Nano W Nanoprobes Yaphank N.Y. for 30 s with two cycles of rinsing followed by stain application. After the last round of staining the grid is blotted and allowed to dry completely before being imaged. Grids are imaged on an FEI Tecnai T12 microscope operating at 120 kV. Images are captured at a nominal magnification of 67 000 on a Gatan UltraScan CCD using a dose of 20 electrons per Angstrom squared. Particles are selected semi automatically using e2boxer within EMAN2 with a box width of 200 Angstroms. Reference free 2D class averages are generated using EMAN2.Briefly several particles are manually picked to initiate automated particle picking using e2boxer within EMAN2. After automated particle picking reference free 2D class averages are generated using e2refine2d within EMAN2. Each sample goes through 15 iterations of 2D classification and 32 classes are generated per sample.

This example shows that a STREP TAG II with an extended linker allows rapid purification of HIV 1 gp140 envelope trimers.

Several codon optimized gp140 constructs from HIV 1 strains JRFL SF162 clade B viruses and CONPEP clade C for production of Env trimers are tested. As an example is a schematic image of the JRFL foldon gp140 recombinant construct showing the positions of the cleavage resistant SEKS mutation foldon and His tag. The gp140 DNA containing gp120 and gp41 ectodomain sequences truncated at aa664 or 683 HXB2 numbering is cloned under the control of the CMV promoter and transfected into a variety of mammalian cell lines 293F 293T 293EXPI CHO GNTI . With a signal peptide fused to the N terminus gp140 is secreted into the culture medium and the efficiency of production is quantified. Both cleavage resistant CR and cleavage proficient CP clones are tested. For CR gp140 the furin cleavage site REKR between gp120 and gp41 is mutated to SEKS and for CP gp140 it is mutated to RRRRRR and co transfected with a second furin containing plasmid to enhance cleavage.

Of the three signal peptides tested CD5 tPA and Gluc CD5 show consistently better expression. Fusing a hexa histidine His tag at the C terminus of recombinant gp140 did not affect expression whereas an N terminal tag shows poor expression probably because the hydrophilic tag affected cleavage of the adjacent largely hydrophobic signal peptide. However the C terminal tag bound poorly if at all to Ni agarose.

In some example clones are also constructed by inserting the 27aa phage T4 fibritin trimerization motif foldon which has a sequence comprising SEQ ID NO 7 between the C terminus of recombinant gp140 and the His tag e.g. JRFL . As shown in for CR gp140 the furin cleavage site REKR between gp120 and gp41 is mutated to SEKS. These constructions produce a mixture of trimers and higher oligomers but no protomers monomers and dimers . These trimers bind to Ni agarose and can be further purified by size exclusion chromatography SEC which resolves the oligomers but the elution profiles overlap and . These results are consistent with the foldon based trimers reported by other investigators also see Table 1 below .

Recombinants without any tag are constructed and recombinant gp140 is captured using lectin beads lectin or concanavalin A . The protein is then purified by SEC. But the yields of the trimers vary either by direct application of the culture supernatant or after 2 3 concentration by tangential flow filtration. Aggregation of some of the gp140 during lectin chromatography occurs. Furthermore the binding potency of lectin diminishes progressively after each use.

In Table 1 various approaches used for the purification of HIV 1 trimers are compared. As shown in table 1 the approach of fusing an eight amino acid STREP TAG II tag through a 20 amino acid linker to the C terminus of gp140 provides several useful features and is broadly applicable to generate trimers from potentially any HIV 1 virus.

This example illustrates an approach that allows selective capture of gp140 directly from the culture medium and is desirable for the production of trimers. Previous attempts to achieve this by fusing gp140 with a tag such as the His tag have failed. It is hypothesized that these failures stemmed from the possibility that the tag when attached to the base of the gp140 structure is probably occluded a problem further compounded by the presence of glycan shield with up to 12 glycans attached to the C terminal heptad repeat HR 2 helices. If the hypothesis is correct extending the tag away from the base should make it more accessible for binding. This reasoning is supported by an example showing that an insertion of a 27aa foldon sequence comprising SEQ ID NO 7 between the C terminus of gp140 and the His tag allows efficient binding to Ni agarose.

A series of 36 recombinant clones are constructed as shown in by fusing the gp140 C terminus to STREP TAG II and octa histidine tag with various linkers in the middle. STREP TAG II is an Baa peptide WSHPQFEK comprising SEQ ID NO 1 that binds to modified streptavidin namely STREP TACTIN at M affinity and stringent specificity. Yet the complex can be dissociated with desthiobiotin a mild condition. Clade B JRFL gp140 is chosen as a template to evaluate this approach but it is also constructed in parallel clade A BG505 gp140 clones for comparison. Three SOSIP mutations and five stabilizing mutations are introduced to stabilize JRFL trimers.The three SOSIP mutations include A501C T605C and I559P mutations. The A501C and T605C mutations create an intra protomer disulfide bond between gp120 and gp41 and the I559P mutation in the heptad repeats HR1 helix strengthens inter subunit gp41 interactions. The five stabilizing mutations in or near HR1 I535M Q543L S553N K567Q and R588G strengthen gp120 and gp41 interactions at the interface.

As shown in bound gp140 can be specifically dissociated with 2.5 mM desthiobiotin and the eluted protein is 95 pure e.g. lanes 1 and 2 . An HRV 3C protease cleavage site engineered between the gp140 C terminus and the linker is not cleaved consistent with the hypothesis that a large protease molecule would encounter clashes with the protomer base. Various forms of gp140 can be efficiently captured uncleaved lanes 1 8 or cleaved lanes 9 16 truncated at aa664 lanes 1 4 and 9 12 or aa683 lanes 5 8 and 13 16 tagged with octa His with a flexible linker lanes 4 8 12 16 or a rigid linker lanes 3 7 11 15 .

Various forms of gp140 developed from clade A BG505 clade B JRFL and clade A E viruses can also be captured. is an image of Blue native BN gel of STREP TACTIN purified gp140 samples. Lanes labeled as M show MW markers. The MWs in kDa of the marker proteins are shown on the left. Gels are stained with Coomassie blue. As shown in cleaved and uncleaved gp140 from clade A and clade B viruses can be captured. In addition trimers from SF162 clade B and 40007 clade CRF01 A E viruses are also purified. Furthermore unlike the capture methods employing lectin or 2G12 BnAb the approach disclosed herein specifically captures full length gp140 molecules and excludes gp120 and the truncated molecules that are often generated by nonspecific proteases see Table 1 .

CP and CR gp140 produce cleaved and uncleaved trimers respectively. is an image of SDS gel of samples under reducing DTT or non reducing DTT conditions. Short arrows show oligomers of gp120 or gp140 formed by nonspecific disulfide crosslinking. Long arrows correspond to the ladder of gp41 ectodomain bands glycosylated to varying extents. Lanes labeled as M show MW markers. The MWs in kDa of the marker proteins are shown on the left. Gels are stained with Coomassie blue. As shown in cleavage by furin is nearly complete in CP gp140 lane 5 whereas little or no cleavage is evident in CR gp140 lane 3 . The cleaved gp120 and gp41 subunits are covalently associated through the SOS disulfide bond as evident from the appearance of a single 140 kDa band under non reducing conditions lane 6 and two bands gp120 and gp41 under reducing conditions lane 5 . However a ladder of five gp41 bands is also seen arrows in lane 5 probably corresponding to glycosylation of 0 to 4 N linked glycosylation sites see below . The CR gp140 on the other hand shows a single 140 kDa band under both reducing and non reducing conditions lanes 3 and 4 . The lack of cleavage of CR gp140 is further confirmed by Western blotting using a highly sensitive STREP TAG specific mAb as shown in .

Whether the CR gp140 also forms the SOS bond cannot be determined. Varying levels of higher oligomers are also seen in all preparations including gp120 probably due to nonspecific disulfide crosslinking of the protomers under non reducing conditions but much less so with the cleaved gp140 arrows in lanes 2 4 and 6 of . About two thirds of the Strep Tagged JRFL CP664 gp140 assemble into trimers lane 1 whereas CR664 gp140 produces more dimers than trimers lane 2 . Similar patterns are also seen with Strep Tagged BG505 gp140. However BG505 produces higher levels of uncleaved trimers lane 4 compare with lane 2 and the trimer bands are more diffused than JRFL indicating more extensive glycosylation as also evidenced by slightly higher MW of these bands lanes 3 and 4 compare with lanes 1 and 2 .

This example illustrates that truncations beyond aa664 produce little or no gp140 trimers. . In this example a rapid strategy to optimize various parameters for maximal trimer production using any HIV 1 Env sequence is developed.

Similar patterns are observed with both JRFL and BG505 gp140s expressed in 293F or GnTI cells. SOSIP mutations prove essential as without them most of the protein aggregate and cannot be captured by STREP TACTIN . Unexpectedly however cleaved gp140 truncated beyond aa664 produce lower amounts of gp140 in the culture medium . The aa672 and aa683 constructs produce 3 5 times lower amount whereas further truncation results in near complete loss of gp140 production. This result is not due to poor cleavage because 683 gp140 is efficiently cleaved producing as expected slightly larger gp41 ladder bands lane 2 compare with lane 1 . In contrast production of uncleaved 683 gp140 is not significantly affected. Unlike the cleaved 683 gp140 which is expressed at lower levels lanes 2 and 6 compare lanes 9 12 with lanes 13 16 the expression of uncleaved 683 gp140 is nearly as high as 664 lanes 3 and 7 vs 4 and 8 . Finally the aa683 protein shows a tendency to aggregate as shown by its appearance largely as a high molecular weight MW smear in the BN gel lane 3 .

The above results suggest that cleavage triggers a conformational change in the MPER which may lead to exposure of some of the hydrophobic residues leading to aggregation. This hypothesis is consistent with the previous reports by Klasse et al. and Ringe et al. which shows that the cleaved aa681 from KNH1144 and aa683 from BG505 gp140 proteins form micelles at the MPER presumably through interaction of the exposed hydrophobic residues of MPER with the lipid components.

This example illustrates that cleavage is essential for production of authentic HIV 1 trimers. and are images illustrating the purification of cleaved and uncleaved JRFL gp140 trimers.

As shown in STREP TACTIN purified gp140 is 95 pure but it contains a mixture of trimers and protomers as well as some high molecular weight MW species lane S . SEC separates these into three major fractions i high MW fraction that elutes immediately after the void volume and migrates as a diffused band on BN gel lane 1 ii trimers which elutes as a relatively sharp peak and migrates as a compact band on BN gel lane 2 and iii two overlapping peaks of protomer dimers and monomers lane 3 .

To determine which of the trimers are authentic cleaved or uncleaved 293F produced complex glycans or GnTI produced high mannose no complex glycans trimers are expressed on a large scale 1 4 liters and purified by STREP TACTIN capture and SEC. The yields of gp140 are as follows 293F CR 20 mg L CP 12 mg L GnTI CR 3 mg L CP 1 mg L. Each SEC fraction is then analyzed by SDS PAGE under reducing conditions to assess purity and cleavage BN PAGE to assess oligomeric state negative EM to assess the shape of the trimer and antigenicity to assess conformation see below .

As shown in the trimers are purified to near homogeneity up to 2 3 mg L CP trimers as well as established the criteria for their authenticity. First in the case of JRFL Env the fraction of gp140 recovered as trimers is 3 5 fold greater with cleaved gp140 than with uncleaved gp140 compare lanes S 5 7 of with . Second the uncleaved trimers are of poor quality when compared to the cleaved trimers. Unlike the CP trimer fractions that show a sharp band on the BN gel lanes 3 7 the CR trimer fractions contain significant levels of diffused and high MW species lanes 3 7 . The latter represents conformationally heterogeneous molecules as is also evident from their poor reactivity with the conformation specific BnAb PGT145 as shown in .

Third the protomers of the uncleaved trimers as well as the foldon trimers also uncleaved are nonspecifically crosslinked through disulfide bonds whereas the cleaved trimers show much less crosslinking. See .

Fourth the uncleaved trimers are more susceptible to nonspecific proteolysis as evidenced by greater proteolysis of the CR trimers by proteinase K than the CP trimers . is a set of image showing proteinase K sensitivity of cleaved and uncleaved JRFL trimers. Panel A of shows SEC purified trimers from 293F or GnTI cells being treated with Proteinase K at the indicated concentrations for 1 hr at 37 C. and electrophoresed on a reducing SDS gel followed by Coomassie blue staining. The 37 C. lane corresponds to control sample incubated at 37 C. for 1 hr without Proteinase K. Note that the uncleaved trimers are more susceptible to proteolysis than the cleaved trimers and also that the 293F trimers are more susceptible to proteolysis than the GnTI trimers. Panel B of illustrates Densitometric Quantification of the undigested gp140 bands from panel A of .

Finally negative stain EM shows that the cleaved trimers appear as three blade propeller shaped particles reference free 2D class averages are shown in whereas the CR fractions show fewer such particles and most are irregularly shaped .

Overall the above results are consistent with the behavior of the uncleaved and cleaved trimers generated by the 2G12 approach see Table 1 .

This example illustrates that GnTI cells produce better quality trimers than the 293F cells although the yields are lower in GNTI cells. compare with with with with with with with with with and with . For instance the diffused high MW species described above are not seen in the CR trimers produced by GnTI cells compare with lanes 1 7 . Negative stain EM shows a higher number of propeller shaped trimers in the GnTI produced CR trimers than in the 293 produced trimers compare with respectively which in part is due to heterogeneity in glycosylation. GnTI cells predominantly add Man5GlcNAc2 which is further processed by complex glycosylation in 293F cells. Presence of STREP TAG II at the C terminus of gp41 allows evaluation of glycosylation using Strep Tag specific mAbs.

The presence of STREP TAG II at the C terminus of gp41 allows evaluation of glycosylation status by using STREP TAG II specific mAbs. As shown in a ladder of five gp41 bands appears when CPgp140 trimers are electrophoresed under reducing conditions. Of these bands band 3 shows maximum intensity and . Since the JRFL gp41 ectodomain contains a cluster of four predicted N linked glycosylation sites near its C terminus these bands probably correspond to glycosylation of 0 to 4 sites. This is confirmed by deglycosylation with PNGase F which converts the ladder to a single species that migrates at the same position as the lowest band in the ladder corresponding to the unglycosylated gp41 lanes 2 4 6 8 . Although a similar pattern is observed in both 293F and GnTI cells the fully glycosylated 293F gp41 bands are more diffused than the same from GnTI gp41 compare lanes 1 to 3 and 5 to 7 presumably due to complex glycosylation. BG505 CP gp140 shows similar banding patterns except that it appeared to undergo more extensive glycosylation. These results demonstrate micro heterogeneity in gp41 glycosylation albeit to a higher extent in 293F cells than in GnTI cells. Heterogeneity of gp41 glycosylation was also inferred in previous reports.

The heterogeneity is even more severe with the uncleaved trimers. Indeed the uncleaved trimers produced by 293F cells are hyper glycosylated . is an image of Coomassie blue stained non reducing SDS gel of purified uncleaved CR and cleaved CP JRFL and BG505 gp140 trimers produced in 293F or GnTI cells. is an image of Coomassie blue stained non reducing SDS gel of samples from after treatment with PNGase F. Lanes M show MW markers. The MWs in kDa of marker proteins are shown on the left. As shown in under non reducing conditions both the CP gp140 and CR gp140 migrate at the same position when gp140 is produced by the GnTI cells lanes 3 and 4 . The 293F gp140 migrates slower than the GnTI gp140 compare lanes 1 and 3 which is expected because gp140 undergoes complex glycosylations in 293F cells. Unexpectedly however the 293F produced CR gp140 migrates slower than CP gp140 compare lanes 1 and 2 . Upon deglycosylation with PNGase F all gp140 bands whether uncleaved or cleaved produced in 293F or GnTI cells migrate at the same position . The same pattern is also observed with the BG505 gp140 trimers tested in parallel see BG505 lanes in . These results demonstrate that the 293F uncleaved trimers are hyper glycosylated when compared to their cleaved counterparts.

In this example an ELISA platform that can differentiate the structural and conformational states of cleaved and uncleaved trimers is used.

Since coating is done at neutral pH unlike at pH 9 in traditional ELISAs it cause minimal if any structural perturbation. Moreover the trimers are immobilized at a defined point therefore all immobilized molecules are exposed in a similar orientation in some ways mimicking the Env spikes displayed on the HIV 1 virion. Finally the 23aa flexible linker should make the trimer more accessible to Ab binding.

The reactivity of the trimers to BnAbs 2G12 VRC01 and PGT121 is first tested. 2G12 recognizes a discontinuous epitope consisting of 3 or 4 high mannose glycans in the gp120 domain.VRC01 is a potent BnAb that binds to the CD4bs and neutralizes 90 of the primary HIV 1 isolates.PGT121 primarily recognizes the complex glycan attached to N332.Consistent with the published data that the conformational epitopes recognized by these Abs are well exposed in trimers as well as in gp120 both cleaved and uncleaved trimers react strongly and equivalently to these Abs .

The BnAb PGT151 recognizes a conformational epitope containing aa residues and glycans present at the interface of gp120 and gp41 that is better exposed in the cleaved trimers. The results show that the cleaved gp140 trimers exhibit stronger reactivity to PGT151 than the uncleaved trimers see graph of suggesting that cleaved trimers achieve native like conformation.

The BnAbs PG16 and PG9 are quaternary Abs that neutralize 70 80 of the primary HIV 1 viruses. The quaternary specificity stems from its long hammerhead shaped CDR which asymmetrically interacts with the V1 V2 and V3 loops of two protomers from the same trimer. The contact regions include primarily the V1V2 loop glycan N160 and N156 N173 and residue K168 of one protomer and glycans N160 and N197 V3 loop of the adjacent protomer.PGT145 is also a quaternary BnAb however less well characterized and it like PG9 and PG16 recognizes the N160 and N156 N173 glycans.Consistent with the expectation that a compact trimer would react better with the quaternary Ab the cleaved trimers react more strongly with PG9 PG16 and PGT145 BnAbs than the uncleaved trimers .

Finally the reactivity of the trimers with the non neutralizing Abs NnAbs b6 F105 and F240 is tested. F105 and b6 recognize an epitope that includes CD4bs whereas F240 binds to the immunodominant loop of gp41 aa592 604 .The CR and CP trimers as well as protomers reacted similarly with these NnAbs although the reactivity with F240 is poor overall probably because its epitope is partially occluded. epitope signature .

Collectively these data demonstrate that the trimers display antigenic signatures that are consistent with their cleaved or uncleaved states. Differential reactivity with the quaternary epitopes provides the best benchmark to ascertain the antigenic signature of compact native like trimers.

The trimeric envelope spike of HIV 1 virion makes the first contact with the host cell. It triggers fusion of viral and host membranes and delivers the nucleocapsid core into the cell. Trimer specific Abs can disable Env function and block transmission of HIV. Development of a recombinant trimer immunogen therefore is one of the highest priorities in the hunt for an effective HIV vaccine.However a myriad of variations reported in the literature leads to confusion and controversy and none can be broadly applied to diverse strains of HIV. For instance a procedure that produces native like trimers from A clade BG505 by using 2G12 BnAb to capture gp140 is not as effective with the B clade JRFL trimers.Hence another procedure is developed in which lectin capture and negative selection by F105 NnAb is used to purify trimers.These Ab based approaches have inherent limitations since the epitope signatures may vary from one HIV clade to another. In fact it is necessary to mutate the wild type BG505 gp140 in order to create the 2G12 binding epitope and allow for its purification by the 2G12 BnAb.and moreover the Abs are not readily available prohibitively expensive and not practical for vaccine production.

Here a new approach is developed that allows production of HIV Env trimers from potentially any HIV 1 clade or strain. Systematic analyses are presented to optimize trimer production and biochemical characterizations to define the signatures of trimers.

A key feature of the approach disclosed herein is to selectively capture gp140 Env directly from the culture supernatant under mild conditions that cause minimal if any perturbation to the structure or oligomeric state of the protein. Attempts to achieve this using an affinity tag have thus far failed because the tag is not accessible for interaction with its binding partner. In accordance with the recent X ray structures the C terminal aa664 would not be accessible as it is the last residue of the long HR2 helices that encircle the base of the gp140 trimer.It is further shielded by as many as 12 glycans emanating from these helices.Therefore it is essential not only to incorporate an exquisitely specific STREP TAG II but also to separate the tag from the base by a 20aa long linker. These modifications avoid clashes with the trimer base and allow purification of near homogeneous protein in a single step. A variety of gp140 variants cleaved uncleaved GnTIglycosylated and 293F glycosylated from clades A B and A E viruses can be purified by this approach.

The Strep Tagged gp140 proteins behaved similar to the native gp140. For instance the CP gp140 is nearly completely cleaved to gp120 and gp41 and the CR gp140 remained uncleaved. SOSIP mutations are essential otherwise most of the gp140 aggregate into a high MW fraction. Curiously gp41 glycosylation is heterogeneous showing five gp41 bands corresponding to glycosylation of zero to four sites of the four N linked glycosylation sites clustered in or near the 34aa long HR2 helix. This micro heterogeneity which is observed in both JRFL and BG505 gp140 may reflect a competition between the rate of glycosylation and the rate of folding of this transiently exposed structural element.

The results show that cleavage is not essential for trimerization per se but it is essential for maturation into propeller shaped particles. Uncleaved gp140 produced such native like articles but in fewer and variable numbers. Maturation might involve two probably sequential events conformational transition and complex glycosylation.A cleavage triggered conformational transition can be deduced from a number of experiments. Truncated CP gp140 constructs beyond aa664 e.g. aa683 produce 3 5 times lower amounts of gp140 whereas the same truncation in CR background is not significantly affected and much of the aa683 protein aggregate. Thus conformation of MPER where these residues are located must be different in the cleaved and uncleaved states. These results are consistent with the previous reports by Klasse et al. and Ringe et al. which showed that the cleaved aa681 and aa683 proteins formed micelles at the MPER. Perhaps some of the residues in the hydrophobic rich MPER are better exposed in the cleaved state and associate with the membrane. Structural studies suggest that the MPER forms an L shaped bent helix and the residues 675 683 contact the virion membrane.

Secondly cleaved trimers exhibited greater stability and are less susceptible to proteolysis than the uncleaved trimers suggesting that cleavage renders the trimers more compact and less accessible to protease. Finally negative stain EM shows compact propeller shaped trimers in the cleaved state and irregularly shaped blobs in the uncleaved state as is also observed by Ringe et al with the 2G12 produced trimers Table 1 .

Careful analysis of glycosylation patterns show that cleavage channels trimers into the correct glycosylation pathway. Without cleavage trimers from both JRFL and BG505 enter an aberrant pathway resulting in hyper glycosylation which traps the trimers in a loosely associated state. Consequently the uncleaved trimers including the foldon trimers produced by 293F cells are conformationally heterogeneous nonspecifically disulfide crosslinked more susceptible to proteolysis and irregularly shaped. Presence of a diffuse smear in the native gel poor reactivity with the conformation specific PGT145 BnAbs and heterogeneity in gp41 complex glycosylations provide further evidence of this phenotype. Finally the uncleaved trimers from GnTI cells which are unable to carry out hyper glycosylations show a higher percentage of native like trimers further underscoring the negative effects of hyper glycosylation.

The strong reactivity of the CR and CP trimers with the BnAbs 2G12 VRC01 and PGT121 confirms that the Strep Tagged trimers have a correctly folded gp120 and gp41 ectodomain exposing the respective conformational epitopes. Preferential reactivity of the cleaved trimers with the PGT151 BnAb further confirms the integrity of the conformational epitope that emerges at the interface of gp120 and gp41 following cleavage. Strong reactivity with cleaved trimers but not with uncleaved trimers of the quaternary BnAbs PG9 and PG16 demonstrates that CP gp140 protomers assemble into correct quaternary structure.

Contrary to some reports that the CR trimers but not the CP trimers react with the NnAbs both of CR and CP trimers react similarly with the NnAbs b6 F240 and F105.Table 2 shows the reactivity of various cleaved and uncleaved trimers with non neutralizing antibodies using different assay platforms. The table shows the reactivity of various cleaved CP and uncleaved CR trimer preparations with the non neutralizing Abs b6 F105 and F240 using different assay platforms reported in the literature. Scores are assigned based on a comparison of the reactivity of different gp140 constructs reported in the same figure from each publication. Different publications are grouped into one line if the scores match. Reactivity scores high moderate weak above baseline negative. The reactivity is dependent on the assay platform compare the reactivity of BG505.SOSIP.R6.664 in ELISA vs SPR vs BLI and the presence of SOSIP mutation compare the reactivity of BG505.SOSIP.SEKS.664 line 4 vs BG505.WT.SEKS.664 by SPR line 5 . Also the ELISA data of BG505.SOSIP.R6.664 is compared to BG505.WT.SEKS.664 but not to its counterpart BG505.SOSIP.SEKS.664.

Careful examination of the published reports however shows that the reactivity depended on the type of assay platform used and the sequences of the CR and CP trimers compared are not identical. On the other hand data illustrated in some examples are generated using identical CP and CR sequences except for the cleavage site and the STREP TACTIN based ELISA platform is not expected to introduce significant structural perturbations into the trimeric antigens. Furthermore the HIV Env trimer is a dynamic structure and likely oscillates between closed and open states allowing the NnAb to interact with the trimer when it opens transiently.Thus strong reactivity to the quaternary specific BnAbs such as PG9 and PG16 is the most reliable benchmark to assess the authenticity of the native like trimers.

In conclusion a new system to produce optimize and characterize pure and native like HIV 1 Env trimers is developed herein. Both cleavage and proper glycosylation are critical to generate compact three blade propeller shaped particles whereas without cleavage the trimers are heterogeneous in conformation nonspecifically crosslinked and hyper glycosylated properties consistent with their irregular shape. The GnTI cells produced better quality trimers than the 293F cells. However the 293F trimers might better recapitulate the native structure because GnTI cells lack complex glycosylations. The caveat however is that the glycan structures introduced by the 293F cells are not know and if these glycan structures are the same as that present on the HIV 1 virion. Micro heterogeneity of glycosylations might also be a concern. Three criteria namely 95 cleavage near 100 propeller shaped particles and strong reactivity to quaternary BnAbs define authentic HIV 1 trimers. The approach disclosed herein provides several useful features see TABLE 1 and is broadly applicable to generate trimers from potentially any HIV 1 virus for basic research as well as for human clinical trials and vaccine manufacture. The well behaved JRFL trimers described here may serve as a good scaffold for further engineering to generate a trimeric immunogen that can elicit transmission blocking Abs against diverse HIV 1 strains.

It is intended that the invention not be limited to the particular embodiment disclosed herein contemplated for carrying out this invention but that the invention will include all embodiments falling within the scope of the claims. For example although the HIV 1 clade B JRFL gp140 and clade A BG505 gp140 sequences are used as templates in constructing recombinant HIV 1 gp140 and in producing trimeric envelope spike that mimics native like HIV 1 trimers it will be appreciated that sequences from other HIV 1 clades can be used as templates for producing purifying and testing trimers produced according to the approach disclosed herein. Antibodies against HIV 1 that can be used in capturing native like trimers are not limited to BnAb 2G12. In addition tags that fused to recombinant HIV 1 gp140 are not limited to octa histidine and STREP TAG II.

All documents patents journal articles and other materials cited in the present application are incorporated herein by reference.

While the present invention has been disclosed with references to certain embodiments numerous modification alterations and changes to the described embodiments are possible without departing from the sphere and scope of the present invention as defined in the appended claims. Accordingly it is intended that the present invention not be limited to the described embodiments but that it has the full scope defined by the language of the following claims and equivalents thereof.

