---

title: Distributed hardware/software system for managing agent status in a communication center
abstract: An agent presence application for monitoring target agent resources and rendering agent states to subscribing applications is provided. The presence application has at least one first portion for collecting data regarding states of activity of the target agent resources, and at least one second portion for integrating the data and rendering the agent states to the subscribing applications.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09413892&OS=09413892&RS=09413892
owner: GENESYS TELECOMMUNICATIONS LABORATORIES, INC.
number: 09413892
owner_city: Daly City
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150824
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 316 773 filed on Jun. 26 2014 which is a continuation of Ser. No. 13 773 486 filed on Feb. 21 2013 now issued as U.S. Pat. No. 8 837 709 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 233 440 filed on Sep. 15 2011 now issued as U.S. Pat. No. 8 437 463 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 791 282 filed on Feb. 22 2001 now issued as U.S. Pat. No. 8 031 860 the disclosures of which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entireties.

The present invention is in the field of telecommunication encompassing all existing sorts of interaction multimedia technology and pertains more particularly to a system for managing agent status information within a communications center.

In the field of telephony communication there have been many improvements in technology over the years that have contributed to more efficient use of telephone communication within hosted call center environments. Most of these improvements involve integrating the telephones and switching systems in such call centers with computer hardware and software adapted for among other things better routing of telephone calls faster delivery of telephone calls and associated information and improved service with regard to client satisfaction. Such computer enhanced telephony is known in the art as computer telephony integration CTI . Generally speaking CTI implementations of various design and purpose are implemented both within individual call centers and in some cases at the telephone network level. For example processors running CTI software applications may be linked to telephone switches service control points SCP and network entry points within a public or private telephone network. At the call center level CTI enhanced processors data servers transaction servers and the like are linked to telephone switches and in some cases to similar CTI hardware at the network level often by a dedicated digital link. CTI processors and other hardware within a call center is commonly referred to as customer premises equipment CPE . It is the CTI processor and application software is such centers that provides computer enhancement to a call center.

In a CTI enhanced call center telephones at agent stations are connected to a central telephony switching apparatus such as an automatic call distributor ACD switch or a private branch exchange PBX . The agent stations may also be equipped with computer terminals such as personal computer video display units PCNVDU so that agents manning such stations may have access to stored data as well as being linked to incoming callers by telephone equipment. Such stations may be interconnected through the PC VDU by a local area network LAN . One or more data or transaction servers may also be connected to the LAN that interconnects agent stations. The LAN is in turn typically connected to the CTI processor which is connected to the call switching apparatus of the call center.

When a call arrives at a call center whether or not the call has been pre processed at an SCP typically at least the telephone number of the calling line is made available to the receiving switch at the call center by the network provider. This service is available by most networks as caller ID information in one of several formats such as Automatic Number Identification ANI . Typically the number called is also available through a service such as Dialed Number Identification Service DNIS . If the call center is computer enhanced CTI the phone number of the calling party may be used as a key to access additional information from a customer information system CIS database at a server on the network that connects the agent workstations. In this manner information pertinent to a call may be provided to an agent often as a screen pop on the agent s PCNVDU.

In recent years advances in computer technology telephony equipment and infrastructure have provided many opportunities for improving telephone service in publicly switched and private telephone intelligent networks. Similarly development of a separate information and data network known as the Internet together with advances in computer hardware and software have led to a new multimedia telephone system known in the art by several names. In this new systemology telephone calls are simulated by multimedia computer equipment and data such as audio data is transmitted over data networks as data packets. In this system the broad term used to describe such computer simulated telephony is Data Network Telephony DNT .

For purposes of nomenclature and definition the inventors wish to distinguish clearly between what might be called conventional telephony which is the telephone service enjoyed by nearly all citizens through local telephone companies and several long distance telephone network providers and what has been described herein as computer simulated telephony or data network telephony. The conventional systems are referred to herein as Connection Oriented Switched Telephony COST systems CTI enhanced or not.

The computer simulated or DNT systems are familiar to those who use and understand computers and data network systems. Perhaps the best example of DNT is telephone service provided over the Internet which will be referred to herein as Internet Protocol Network Telephony IPNT by far the most extensive but still a subset of DNT.

Both systems use signals transmitted over network links. In fact connection to data networks for DNT such as IPNT is typically accomplished over local telephone lines used to reach points in the network such as an Internet Service Provider ISP . The definitive difference is that COST telephony may be considered to be connection oriented telephony. In the COST system calls are placed and connected by a specific dedicated path and the connection path is maintained over the time of the call. Bandwidth is basically assured. Other calls and data do not share a connected channel path in a COST system. A DNT system on the other hand is not dedicated or connection oriented. That is data including audio data is prepared sent and received as data packets over a data network. The data packets share network links and may travel by varied and variable paths.

Recent improvements to available technologies associated with the transmission and reception of data packets during real time DNT communication have enabled companies to successfully add DNT principally IPNT capabilities to existing CTI call centers. Such improvements as described herein and known to the inventor include methods for guaranteeing available bandwidth or quality of service QOS for a transaction improved mechanisms for organizing coding compressing and carrying data more efficiently using less bandwidth and methods and apparatus for intelligently replacing lost data via using voice supplementation methods and enhanced buffering capabilities.

In addition to Internet protocol IPNT calls a DNT center may also share other forms of media with customers accessing the system through their computers. E mails video mails fax file share file transfer video calls and so forth are some of the other forms of media which may be used. This capability of handling varied media leads to the term multimedia communications center. A multimedia communications center may be a combination CTI and DNT center or may be a DNT center capable of receiving COST calls and converting them to a digital DNT format. The term communication center will replace the term call center hereinafter in this specification when referring to multi media capabilities.

In typical communication centers DNT is accomplished by Internet connection and IPNT calls. For this reason IPNT and the Internet will be used in examples to follow. IT should be understood however that this usage is exemplary and not limiting.

In systems known to the inventors incoming IPNT calls are processed and routed within an IPNT capable communication center in much the same way as COST calls are routed in a CTI enhanced call center using similar or identical routing rules waiting queues and so on aside from the fact that there are two separate networks involved. Communication centers having both CTI and IPNT capability utilize LAN connected agent stations with each station having a telephony switch connected headset or phone and a PC connected in most cases via LAN to the network carrying the IPNT calls. Therefore in most cases IPNT calls are routed to the agent s PC while conventional telephony calls are routed to the agent s conventional telephone or headset. Typically separate lines and equipment must be implemented for each type of call weather COST or IPNT.

Due in part to added costs associated with additional equipment lines and data ports that are needed to add IPNT capability to a CTI enhanced call center companies are currently experimenting with various forms of integration between the older COST system and the newer IPNT system. For example by enhancing data servers interactive voice response units IVR agent connecting networks and so on with the capability of conforming to Internet protocol call data arriving from either network may be integrated requiring less equipment and lines to facilitate processing storage and transfer of data.

With many new communication products supporting various media types available to businesses and customers a communication center must add significant application software to accommodate the diversity. For example e mail programs have differing parameters than do IP applications. IP applications are different regarding protocol than COST calls and so on. Separate routing systems and or software components are needed for routing e mails IP calls COST calls file sharing etc. Agents must then be trained in the use of a variety of applications supporting the different types of media.

Keeping contact histories reporting statistics creating routing rules and the like becomes more complex as newer types of media are added to communication center capability. Additional hardware implementations such as servers processors etc. are generally required to aid full multimedia communication and reporting. Therefore it is desirable that interactions of all multimedia sorts be analyzed recorded and routed according to enterprise business rules in a manner that provides seamless integration between media types and application types thereby allowing agents to respond intelligently and efficiently to customer queries and problems.

One challenge that is ever present in a communications center is the ability to communicate current communication center status to customers attempting to reach the center for service. Older call centers relying on COST communication techniques simply play recorded messages the recordings informing the customers of the status of an agent being called. More advanced communication centers including multimedia centers have extensive automated services in place for interacting with customers in the event that no agents are available. Most of these services are IVR driven and inform callers of options as well as status of those persons the callers are attempting to connect with.

Estimated call waiting times may be determined during a call attempt and communicated to the caller through IVR interaction. The number of calls ahead of a current calls may also be provided as status information. A customer must invest the time and inconvenience of placing a call to the communication center in order to receive the status information. As described above this information is made available through IVR interaction in prior art systems. In general a call placed into the communications center must be paid for either by the customer placing the call or by the center itself. It has occurred to the inventor that money and center resource could be conserved by providing status information to customers without requiring a physical call to be placed to the center.

A network based system known to the inventor and taught in a separate application enables users of the system to obtain current agent status information related to agents of an information source facility connected to the network before initiating contact with the agent or agents of the information source facility. The system uses a status server node connected to the information source facility communication center and to the network. The system also uses an interface server node connected to the status node and to the network. The status server node is accessible to the interface node by virtue of the network connectivity. A user operating a network capable appliance connects to the interface node by virtue of network connection capability. Software distributed on at least the status and interface server nodes enables distribution of the agent status information to the user operating the appliance.

The agent status information is accessed from the status server node connected to the communication center by the interfacing server node and delivered to the requesting user over the operating network. The system components communicate according to any one of several known Instant Messaging protocols such as IMPP RFC 2778. An enhancement to the above system enables agents in dialogue with users to be able to view availability status and callback preferences established at the users end.

The enhanced system uses a status server node connected to the information source facility communication center and to the network and an interfacing server node connected to the first server node and to the network. The interfacing server node is accessible from the status server node by virtue of the network connectivity. A client accesses the interface server node using a network capable appliance connected to the network.

The client either posts his or her status information at the interfacing server node or the interfacing server node polls the client for status while the client is connected. An agent user operating from a LAN connected agent workstation has access to the status server node which in turn polls the interfacing server node. Software distributed on both server nodes enables distribution of the client status information to requesting agents. The agent user operating the agent workstation accesses the status server node and subscribes to the client status information about one or more clients. The client status information is accessed from the interfacing server node by the status server node and delivered to the requesting agent user. The above described system uses a presence protocol to propagate data from node to node on the network.

A personal interaction system for enabling customers of a communication center to change and manipulate personal information as well as to view personalized interaction and resource data from a single interface is also known to the inventor and is taught in a separate application. The system incorporates a personalized interaction application for enabling client interaction with communication center resources and brokerage of presence information related to both agents of the communication center and to clients of the center.

The interaction application comprises an interactive user interface for posting client data and for receiving and displaying agent data and interaction data a brokering application for receiving data from both the client and the communication center for incorporation into the user interface and for managing propagation of instant messaging between a client and agents of the center and a status monitoring and reporting application for monitoring and reporting agent status and client status and for accessing and serving communication center resource data.

A client accessing and interacting with the user interface portion of the application may add and edit personal information request and receive product information request and view current activity status within the communication center and request and view personal interaction history recorded by the communication center without initiating and executing a live communication event to the center. In preferred embodiments the application uses a presence protocol and is enhanced with instant messaging capability as described above with the agent availability and client status availability systems. Moreover the functionality of all three systems may be combined into one system using one interface for the client.

As can be seen from the description the above using an Instant Message protocol provides obvious advantages to both agents and clients operating in an IP environment hosted by a communication center. However the task of monitoring and managing multiple states of agents operating within the center is quite formidable given prior art methods. In state of the art communication centers agents are responsible not only for handling a variety of communication event types but also must typically manage more than one communication terminal or device. For example COST interaction is typically handled by a COST telephone while IP telephony is conducted with an IP capable telephone or on a PC. An agent may also handled pager messages on a pager e mail messages on a PC fax correspondence on a fax machine or may have even other non electronic duties communicated to his computer such as filling out and stamping a document etc.

Prior art methods for monitoring agent states are typically CTI implementations executing on a central routing device or hosted on a central server connected by a LAN to participating agents. Therefore all of the agent s possible communication means may not be accessible to the system. Moreover resolution of agent states to single communication applications is not possible. An associated problem with implementing a centrally controlled agent monitoring system is lack of feasible scalability. For example up scaling such a system would require addition of more central servers and providing extensive integration solutions for various communication technologies.

Another issue is that many professional agents are accustomed to or required by regulations to use certain software implements and platforms related to their communication duties. Centrally controlled agent state monitoring systems generally require all agents to use like software communications applications and be operating like platforms. In this case new agents must be trained to use applications supported by the monitoring system. Still further many clients of the communication center may use applications that agents also use but which are not supported by a communication center s state monitoring system. Therefore some pending interactions which are of importance to the center may not take place because the supported mediums of communication were determined to be busy at the time of the interaction. Opportunities for communication may be missed although communication could have taken place if the specific application shared by the client and by the agent were known and reportable as a state option to the customer.

There are many instances wherein detailed reporting of all of an agent s active states is useful especially in instances of internal routing of interactions arriving within the communication center. Observing applications used in current communication centers do not have sufficient access to all of an agent s possible activity states as may be related to individual communications mediums and especially related to specific communications applications as noted above. Further existing applications are typically centralized and difficult to scale.

Therefore what is clearly needed is a distributed system for monitoring and reporting agent states and communication abilities to subscribing applications that does not require management from a central server or expensive software integration solutions. Such a system would be easily scalable and much more reliable than current centrally controlled systems.

In a preferred embodiment of the present invention an agent presence application for monitoring target agent resources and rendering agent states to subscribing applications is provided comprising a first portion for collecting data regarding states of activity of the target agent resources and a second portion for integrating the data and rendering the agent states to the subscribing applications. In some embodiments the target agent resources comprise one or more individual agent stations in at least one communication center the agent stations equipped with one or more communication devices. Also in some embodiments multiple copies or versions of the first portion execute on platforms monitoring individual ones of the one or more communication devices and provide data to at least one agent proxy server executing a copy of the second portion the at least one agent proxy server dedicated to integrating the data for the one or more communication devices.

In some embodiments one or more of the platforms upon which the first portions execute are computers in the agent stations while in others one or more of the platforms upon which the first portions execute comprise individual ones of the one or more communication devices. In still other embodiments one or more of the platforms upon which the first portions execute comprise individual service proxy platforms also enabling services for one of the communication devices. The service proxy platform may be for example a Voice over Internet Protocol VoIP proxy enabling a VoIP telephone or a call control gateway platform. In some embodiments the first portions provide data to more than one agent proxy server to provide redundancy.

In some cases the platforms agent stations and subscribing applications are all a part of a single communication center while in other cases the platforms agent stations and subscribing applications are distributed over a plurality of communication centers.

In some instances more than one first portion is dedicated each to distinct ones of the communication devices associated with a single agent station and the data from the more than one first portion is aggregated for the single agent station at the agent proxy server associated with the single agent station. In other cases there may be multiple sets of agent stations having communication devices monitored by the copies or versions of the first portion and multiple agent proxy servers executing copies of the second portion wherein agent proxy servers are associated in a hierarchical fashion such that higher level agent proxy servers aggregate data from multiple lower level agent proxy servers with which each higher level server is associated the aggregated data at the higher level servers comprising data from all of the agent stations associated with each of the lower level servers. Again in these cases the platforms agent stations and subscribing applications may be all a part of a single communication center or distributed over a plurality of communication centers. In particular cases the subscribing applications include communication routing applications.

In another aspect of the invention an agent proxy system operable in at least one communication center is provided the system comprising agent resources enabling agents to process communication events one or more agent proxy servers one or more subscribing applications subscribing to one or more of the agent proxy servers a communication network connecting the agent resources the applications and the one or more agent proxy servers and an agent presence application for monitoring states of the agent resources and for rendering agent states to the subscribing applications the presence application having a first portion for collecting data regarding states of activity of the target agent resources and a second portion for integrating the data and rendering the agent states to the subscribing applications.

In some embodiments the agent resources comprise one or more individual agent stations in at least one communication center the agent stations equipped with communication devices and in some embodiments multiple copies or versions of the first portion execute on platforms monitoring individual ones of the one or more communication devices and provide data to at least one agent proxy server executing a copy of the second portion the at least one agent proxy server dedicated to integrating the data for the one or more communication devices.

In some cases one or more of the platforms upon which the first portions execute are computers in the agent stations while in other cases one or more of the platforms upon which the first portions execute comprise individual ones of the one or more communication devices and in still other cases one or more of the platforms upon which the first portions execute comprise individual service proxy platforms also enabling services for one of the communication devices.

The service proxy platform may be a Voice over Internet Protocol VoIP proxy enabling a VoIP telephone for example or a call control gateway platform. In some cases the first portions provide data to more than one agent proxy server to provide redundancy. Also the platforms agent stations and subscribing applications may be all a part of a single communication center or distributed over a plurality of communication centers.

In some cases more than one first portion is dedicated each to distinct ones of the communication devices associated with a single agent station and the data from the more than one first portion is aggregated for the single agent station at the agent proxy server associated with the single agent station. There may be multiple sets of agent stations having communication devices monitored by the copies or versions of the first portion and multiple agent proxy servers executing copies of the second portion wherein agent proxy servers are associated in a hierarchical fashion such that higher level agent proxy servers aggregate data from multiple lower level agent proxy servers with which each higher level server is associated the aggregated data at the higher level servers comprising data from all of the agent stations associated with each of the lower level servers. In all of these cases the platforms agent stations and subscribing applications may be all a part of a single communication center or distributed over a plurality of communication centers. In special cases the subscribing applications include communication routing applications.

In still another aspect of the invention in a communication center system a method for providing agent status to subscribing applications is provided comprising the steps of a monitoring status of individual agent resources by a first portion of an agent presence application and b integrating data from step a and rendering agent status to the subscribing applications by a second portion of the agent presence application. In some embodiments in step a the agent resources comprise individual agent stations equipped with one or more communication devices.

In some embodiments multiple copies or versions of the first portion execute on platforms monitoring individual ones of the one or more communication devices and provide data to at least one agent proxy server executing a copy of the second portion the at least one agent proxy server dedicated to integrating the data for the one or more communication devices. In some embodiments one or more of the platforms upon which the first portions execute are computers in the agent stations while in others one or more of the platforms upon which the first portions execute comprise individual ones of the one or more communication devices and in still others one or more of the platforms upon which the first portions execute comprise individual service proxy platforms also enabling services for one of the communication devices. The service proxy platform may be a Voice over Internet Protocol VoIP proxy enabling a VoIP telephone for example or a call control gateway platform.

In some cases the first portions provide data to more than one agent proxy server to provide redundancy. The platforms agent stations and subscribing applications may be all a part of a single communication center or distributed over a plurality of communication centers.

In some cases more than one first portion is dedicated each to distinct ones of the communication devices associated with a single agent station and the data from the more than one first portion is aggregated for the single agent station at the agent proxy server associated with the single agent station. Further there may be multiple sets of agent stations having communication devices monitored by the copies or versions of the first portion and multiple agent proxy servers executing copies of the second portion wherein agent proxy servers are associated in a hierarchical fashion such that higher level agent proxy servers aggregate data from multiple lower level agent proxy servers with which each higher level server is associated the aggregated data at the higher level servers comprising data from all of the agent stations associated with each of the lower level servers.

In these cases as well the platforms agent stations and subscribing applications may be all a part of a single communication center or distributed over a plurality of communication centers. In special cases the subscribing applications include communication routing applications.

Now for the first time a distributable software system for managing agent states that does not require management from a central server or expensive software integration solutions is provided. The system is easily scalable and much more reliable than current centrally controlled systems.

In accordance with a preferred embodiment of the present invention the inventor provides a distributable software application for improving the reporting of various active agent states related to communication capabilities to subscribing applications within or in some cases external to a communication center. The method and apparatus of the present invention is described in enabling detail below.

PSTN may in an alternative embodiment be a private telephone network instead of a public one as exemplified herein. DPN which in this example is the well known Internet is chosen by the inventor as a preferred DPN because of its high public access characteristic. Hereinafter DPN will simply be referred to as Internet . Internet may instead be a corporate or private wide area network WAN without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention. Internet is further exemplified by an Internet backbone illustrated as extending through cloud . Backbone represents all of the lines connections and equipment making up the Internet network as a whole. Therefore there are no geographic limitations to practice the present invention.

Communication center represents a state of the art communication center capable of handling both COST interactions and DNT interactions including those using Internet Protocol IP . Communications center may be any type of communication center or information source facility. A good example of communication center would be that of a customer assistance center for a large computer manufacturer. Communication center may be a very large center employing hundreds of agents or a very small center employing just a few agents without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention.

PSTN represents the mediums through which all COST calls destined to communication center are propagated. A local switch LSW is illustrated within PSTN and represents a telephony switch as known in the art for switching calls. In this example LSW is connected to a central switch CSW illustrated within communication center by a telephony trunk . LSW as well as CSW may be automatic call distributor ACD switches or any other known telephone switches capable of processing COST events.

A computer telephony integration CTI processor is provided within PSTN connected to LSW by a CTI link. CTI processor is adapted to provide at least intelligent routing capability to LSW . A similar CTI processor is provided within communication center and is illustrated as connected to CSW by a CTI link. CTI processor is adapted to provide at least intelligent routing capability to CSW . CTI processor within PSTN is connected to CTI processor within communication center by a data network connection separate from telephone trunk lines. Data network enables extension of intelligent routing routines from within communication center into PSTN . More specifically LSW representing just one of many similarly connected switches or Service Control Points SCP in the network may do for example agent level routing by virtue of communication capability between processors and . This mechanism enables intelligent network routing of incoming communication events to occur at LSW .

Intelligent routing commands are distributed from processor over data network to processor by virtue of a software instance known to the inventor as a transaction server TS . Intelligent routing capabilities may include but are not limited to routing based on agent skills statistical routing predictive routing priority routing agent availability routing and a host of other routing protocols. Data network also enables information about callers to arrive within communication center ahead of connection of the actual calls. In addition to instances of TS illustrated within processor and of this example other functions may be provided without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention. Examples include interactive voice response IVR capability and other types of intelligent peripheral services.

In some communication networks known to the inventor the capability exists of bridging for example PSTN and Internet such that calls originating from both networks may be routed into and supported by their bridged counterparts. For example calls originating from PSTN may be converted to DNT calls and routed through Internet to communication center . Similarly calls originating from Internet may be converted to COST events and routed to communication center through PSTN . Such functionality is not specifically illustrated in this example but may be assumed to be present in some embodiments.

Also other media than pure voice calls can be used. For example web based calls video calls video mail e mail chat chat relays etc. just to name a few types of calls or communications.

Communication center has illustrated therein a plurality of agent workstations such as stations and . Stations are adapted as communication stations each containing appropriate communications equipment and software used by agents for external and internal communication. In this example each agent workstations has at least a personal computer video display unit PC VDU and a telephone. For example within agent workstations a PC VDU and a telephone are illustrated. A PC VDU and a telephone are illustrated within station . A PC VDU and a telephone are illustrated within station . Telephones are connected to CSW by internal telephony wiring . In other embodiments the agent equipment may be more extensive than that illustrated here such as WAP enabled telephones pagers fax machines and more.

It will be apparent to one with skill in the art that there may be many more agent stations operating within communication center than are illustrated in this example. Also in some cases some or all of the agents may be remote agents working for example from home mobile on the road or from small satellite offices rather than from a large conventional call center. The inventor deems that illustration of three agent stations is adequate for the purpose of explanation and illustration of the present invention. Moreover in some more advanced embodiments known to the inventor telephones may be connected to their respective PC VDUs by physical cabling enabling agents to answer incoming calls using the telephone or the PC VDU.

PC VDUs share connection to a local area network LAN . In this example LAN is adapted to support Internet protocols in a addition to other LAN protocols. LAN facilitates intercommunication between agents within communication center and other communication center systems. For example CTI processor is connected to LAN . Information about callers retrieved as a result of interaction with callers at LSW or by peripheral equipment associated with LSW may be distributed to appropriate agent PC VDUs ahead of routed COST calls via data network and LAN .

An Internet protocol router IPR is provided within communication center and is connected to LAN . IPR is also connected to Internet backbone by an Internet access line . Internet access line may be a 24 7 Internet connection or a switched Internet connection. IPR routes IP events originating from Internet to appropriate agents. IP events may include e mails IPNT phone calls and so on. In one embodiment IPR may be further enhanced with digital interactive voice response DIVR capability.

An automated systems server ASS is illustrated within communication center and is connected to LAN via a LAN connection and to CSW by a digital data line . ASS is adapted as an automated system server capable of initiating one type or many types of automated communication events such as facsimiles e mails voice mails and other automated response mechanisms. ASS may also be adapted to operate in an outbound campaign mode.

A Web server is provided within Internet and connected to backbone . Server is adapted in this embodiment as an interface server maintained within Internet by the same entity hosting communication center in a preferred embodiment. Server is an access point for remote agents working with communication center . A host server is also illustrated within Internet and also connected to backbone . Host server represents a third party hosted customer access point to interface for customers wishing to access communication center .

A plurality of software SW instances are provided as distributed applications to PC VDUs . SW is adapted in a preferred embodiment as a presence agent capable of monitoring the present state of an agent s communication capabilities and current communication states at each agent station operating in communication center . In this example SW embodies a capability of monitoring and reporting agent communication capabilities according to much finer resolution than is practiced and current art. For example SW may be adapted to include standard communication capabilities such as e mail fax IP phone ICQ and other chat communication applications file sharing programs and any instant messenger applications. SW may also report platform and word application parameters such as whether or not and agent has PowerPoint installed for Macintosh and so on. Also types of media applications and associated platforms may also be reported by SW .

In a preferred embodiment of the present invention a plurality of agent proxies are provided for integrating agent status and communication capabilities and communicating such information to requesting applications. In the present example two agent proxy servers are provided each connected to LAN and each running a software instance . Each of proxies is responsible for and tracks states for one or more agent stations. In the present case one may be dedicated to agent stations and and the other to agent station . The skilled artisan will understand as mentioned above that there may be many more agent stations than the three shown and there may also be many more agent proxies than the two shown.

In a communication center of the sort illustrated here there may be hundreds of agent stations varying in equipment and capability and distributed physically over a large premise such as several floors of one building or over multiple buildings. In such a case there may be an agent proxy executing software on each floor of each building connected to the LAN that connects all agent stations with each agent proxy dedicated to and monitoring the agent stations on the same floor.

In some cases the group of agent proxies may be hierarchical. For example in a very large center having several sites there may be proxies at a lowest level each monitoring a group of agent stations then one or more higher level proxies integrating the information of the lower level proxies such as one for each site then a highest level proxy integrating the information of the proxies dedicated to each site. The variations are numerous.

Proxy software is responsible for authenticating an agent or agents assigned to it as well as for receiving and combining assigned agent s presence information and making the same available to any observing application that subscribes to the information. Each agent running SW has his or her current presence information and communication capabilities reported to a designated proxy or proxies . The described distributed system in a preferred embodiment may use a presence protocol to propagate the required information.

As examples of applications that subscribe to agent proxies consider IPR and CTI server . Each of these servers executes one or more routing applications for routing incoming events to agent stations. In a preferred embodiment of the present invention each of these servers subscribes t one or more agent proxies for information to aid in efficient and effective routing of incoming events.

In one embodiment wherein COST clients have an IVR option for routing the communicated agent capabilities and states may be used to aid a caller with selection of a routing option. Such an option may be based on availability of an agent regarding another application. For example if a call at LSW is destined for an agent operating at station but presence information indicates to a dedicated agent proxy that the agent is busy on a previous call or other activity then the presence information may also report to the appropriate proxy that the agent is available using IP assisted automated ordering wherein the caller elects to place an order through IVR function and is prioritized for that purpose. In this case it may be that after a caller has entered the requested order information during IVR interaction his or her call is transferred to the agent s IP phone wherein the agent takes the call and places the current COST call on hold to take the order. In this case the IVR server will be a subscriber to one or more of the agent proxies.

In some embodiments of the invention agents may not be on site agents as shown in but may be remote agents operating from home or another site not connected to LAN . In this case an instance of agent proxy software may execute on WEB server in Internet wherein the WEB server is hosted by the entity operating communication center . In this case the remote agent s are tracked by instance operating on server and this instance may report to all the same subscribing applications as described above such as IPR and CTI for routing incoming events.

Information made available to agent proxies by presence software instances may be propagated on a periodic basis with relatively high frequency such as perhaps every one minute or so. In a preferred embodiment however updates are made in agent status only when status changes. This method minimizes traffic on the LAN or other communication network that may be used.

Agent proxies may be adapted as described above to report presence information of a single agent or of a combination of agents representing a work group team or queue. There are no limits to the inclusion of varying types of media and communication capabilities utilized by agents within communication center . All that is required in order to enable reporting of active states of communication and capabilities to agent proxies is a network connection to the device supporting the communication capabilities or to a third party component through which communication events of the media and question are routed and monitored. It can be seen in this example that the distributed system of the present invention can be implemented on existing equipment without the addition of a centralized server for managing the process.

In preferred embodiments an agent proxy can combine status information from different terminals and different devices for a single agent into combined information for that agent. This capability is illustrated further below particularly with reference to . Also in some embodiments a presence agent will connect to only one or two proxies. Connecting to two proxies provides reliability and redundance. There could be even more redundancy but this is not typically necessary.

Agent presence applications A and B are analogous to SW of above. In this example agent proxy SW receives the presence and capabilities information from both presence agent A and presence agent B and combines them into a single presence entity which may be reported to an observing and subscribing application such as any routing application in the system.

Presence information may be in the form of Extensible Markup Language XML as is used in recent presence protocols. It is noted herein that if agent is only logged on to the system through PC terminal and PC terminal is logged off then agent proxy SW would only utilize presence information provided by presence agent A. It will be apparent to one with skill in the art that as a distributed component proxy functions independently from any other proxy component that may be covering additional agents.

There are in this case no parent applications or central control applications to which proxy agent or presence agents A or B for that matter depend upon. Therefore an overall system covering many agents will continue to function normally if for example proxy and presence instances A and B cease to function for any reason. In some embodiments as described above presence agents at a single station may report to more than one agent proxy in which case the failure of one of the agent proxies would not damage system performance. Prior art systems that rely on a central control station or server are vulnerable if for some reason the central controlling host malfunctions or becomes disabled. Moreover the flexibility provided by distributed components enables agents to utilize the communications applications and platform types to which they are most accustomed. This feature is especially beneficial in a communication network wherein agents operate from remote PCs such as in home office environments. In these cases the presence reporting capability is compatible with standard transport protocols such as Transfer Control Protocol Internet Protocol TCP IP utilized on Internet .

It is noted that although a PC and phone combination are used in the examples presented herein other communications devices and or systems may be monitored by presence agents executing on the monitored device or system or executing on a connected processor or routing device. For example an automated fax machine may have a facsimile queue that is monitored by a presence agent. The presence agent in this case reports to an agent proxy the number of faxes waiting to be sent and the estimated time of receipt of a fax as requested by an observing application on behalf of a customer request for example. Therefore a presence application can be personalized to a communications terminal shared by many agents and does not necessarily have to be personalized to a single agent or to a controlled agent group.

Several specific embodiments of the present invention have been described in some detail herein and it is emphasized that these are exemplary and the invention may manifest in a variety of ways. For example the embodiments described have been primarily within a communication center providing status information for subscribing applications also within the communication center. In alternative embodiments there may be several call centers each with multiple agents and agent stations and agent proxies may be provided for groups of agents at each call center and in a hierarchical fashion higher level agent proxies may be provided integrating information for each center and for groups of centers and for all centers. Subscribing applications may be local to a call center or may subscribe across networks to different call centers for example. The capabilities of the distributive aspects of the present invention render it useful over a diverse topology in this manner Subscribing applications in such a system may well be network level routers now capable of agent level routing over a very diverse structure and over a combination of devices networks and protocols.

It will be apparent to one with skill in the art that the method and apparatus of the present invention may be practiced over a wide variety of integrated networks and sub networks without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention. Therefore the method and apparatus of the present invention encompasses a wide range of varying implementations and therefore should be afforded the broadest scope under examination. The spirit and scope of the present invention is limited only by the claims that follow.

