---

title: Collaborative response using capabilities-aware hive network
abstract: Various embodiments include approaches for coordinating collaborative response to an event using a capabilities-aware hive network. Some particular embodiments include a system having at least one computing device performing actions including: prompting a plurality of users to register with the capabilities-aware hive network, the prompting including requesting the plurality of users provide information about individual capabilities for response to the event; compiling the information from the plurality of users about individual capabilities for response to the event; obtaining data indicating occurrence of the event, and in response to obtaining the data indicating occurrence of the event, identifying and prioritizing individual user actions in response to the event based upon the information about the individual capabilities for response to the event; and providing user-specific instructions to the plurality of users to perform the individual user actions to respond to the event.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09420446&OS=09420446&RS=09420446
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 09420446
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150113
---
Aspects of the invention relate generally to managing and enhancing response to disaster scenarios. More particularly various aspects of the invention relate to approaches for enhancing response to disaster scenarios using a hive network.

Collaborative applications are designed to help people involved in a common task achieve goals. The design intent of collaborative applications is to transform the way documents and rich media are shared to enable more effective team collaboration. Collaborative applications provide tools that aid communication collaboration and the process of problem solving. Additionally collaborative applications may support project management functions such as task assignments time managing deadlines work flow and shared calendars.

Collaborative applications should support the individuals that make up the team and the interactions between them during the group decision making process. The software may also support team membership roles and responsibilities. Additionally collaborative support systems may offer the ability to support ancillary systems such as budgets and physical resources.

Various embodiments include approaches for coordinating collaborative response to an event using a capabilities aware hive network. Some particular embodiments include a system having at least one computing device configured to coordinate collaborative response to an event using a capabilities aware hive network by performing actions including prompting a plurality of users to register with the capabilities aware hive network the prompting including requesting the plurality of users provide information about individual capabilities for response to the event compiling the information from the plurality of users about individual capabilities for response to the event obtaining data indicating occurrence of the event and in response to obtaining the data indicating occurrence of the event identifying and prioritizing individual user actions in response to the event based upon the information about the individual capabilities for response to the event and providing user specific instructions to the plurality of users to perform the individual user actions to respond to the event.

A first aspect includes a system having at least one computing device configured to coordinate collaborative response to an event using a capabilities aware hive network by performing actions including prompting a plurality of users to register with the capabilities aware hive network the prompting including requesting the plurality of users provide information about individual capabilities for response to the event compiling the information from the plurality of users about individual capabilities for response to the event obtaining data indicating occurrence of the event and in response to obtaining the data indicating occurrence of the event identifying and prioritizing individual user actions in response to the event based upon the information about the individual capabilities for response to the event and providing user specific instructions to the plurality of users to perform the individual user actions to respond to the event

A second aspect includes a computer program product having program code stored on a computer readable storage medium which when executed by at least one computing device causes the at least one computing device to coordinate collaborative response to an event using a capabilities aware hive network by performing actions including prompting a plurality of users to register with the capabilities aware hive network the prompting including requesting the plurality of users provide information about individual capabilities for response to the event compiling the information from the plurality of users about individual capabilities for response to the event obtaining data indicating occurrence of the event and in response to obtaining the data indicating occurrence of the event identifying and prioritizing individual user actions in response to the event based upon the information about the individual capabilities for response to the event and providing user specific instructions to the plurality of users to perform the individual user actions to respond to the event.

A third aspect includes a computer implemented method of coordinating collaborative response to an event using a capabilities aware hive network the method performed on at least one computing device the method including prompting a plurality of users to register with the capabilities aware hive network the prompting including requesting the plurality of users provide information about individual capabilities for response to the event compiling the information from the plurality of users about individual capabilities for response to the event obtaining data indicating occurrence of the event and in response to obtaining the data indicating occurrence of the event identifying and prioritizing individual user actions in response to the event based upon the information about the individual capabilities for response to the event and providing user specific instructions to the plurality of users to perform the individual user actions to respond to the event.

As will be appreciated by one skilled in the art aspects of the present invention may be embodied as a system method or computer program product. Accordingly aspects of the present invention may take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment an entirely software embodiment including firmware resident software micro code etc. or an embodiment combining software and hardware aspects that may all generally be referred to herein as a circuit module or system. Furthermore aspects of the present invention may take the form of a computer program product embodied in one or more computer readable medium s having computer readable program code instructions embodied thereon.

Any combination of computer readable media may be utilized. Computer readable media may be a computer readable signal medium or a computer readable storage medium. A computer readable storage medium may be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus or device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. More specific examples a non exhaustive list of a computer readable storage medium would include the following an electrical connection having one or more wires a portable computer diskette a hard disk a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory an optical fiber a portable compact disc read only memory CD ROM an optical storage device a magnetic storage device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. In the context of this document a computer readable storage medium may be any tangible medium that can contain or store a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device.

A computer readable signal medium may include a propagated data signal with computer readable program code embodied therein for example in baseband or as part of a carrier wave. Such a propagated signal may take any of a variety of forms including but not limited to electro magnetic optical or any suitable combination thereof. A computer readable signal medium may be any computer readable medium that is not a computer readable storage medium and that can communicate propagate or transport a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device.

Program code embodied on a computer readable medium may be transmitted using any appropriate medium including but not limited to wireless wireline optical fiber cable RF etc. or any suitable combination of the foregoing. Computer program code for carrying out operations for aspects of the present invention may be written in any combination of one or more programming languages including an object oriented programming language such as Java Smalltalk C or the like and conventional procedural programming languages such as the C programming language or similar programming languages. The program code may execute entirely on a user s computer partly on the user s computer as a stand alone software package partly on the user s computer and partly on a remote computer or entirely on the remote computer or server. In the latter scenario the remote computer may be connected to the user s computer through any type of network including a local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN or the connection may be made to an external computer for example through the Internet using an Internet Service Provider .

Aspects of the present invention are described below with reference to flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams of methods apparatus systems and computer program products according to embodiments of the invention. It will be understood that each block of the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams and combinations of blocks in the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams can be implemented by computer program instructions. These computer program instructions may be provided to a processor of a general purpose computer special purpose computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a machine such that the instructions which execute via the processor of the computer or other programmable data processing apparatus create means for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable medium that can direct a computer other programmable data processing apparatus or other devices to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer readable medium produce an article of manufacture including instructions which implement the function act specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks. The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer other programmable data processing apparatus or other devices to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer other programmable apparatus or other devices to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide processes for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

It is understood that although this disclosure includes a detailed description on cloud computing implementation of the teachings recited herein are not limited to a cloud computing environment. Rather embodiments of the present invention are capable of being implemented in conjunction with any other type of computing environment now known or later developed. A detailed description of cloud computing is given in this section to provide a better understanding of the underlying teachings discussed herein.

In the depicted embodiment computing environment includes computing device computing device computing device and cloud computing node interconnected over network . Network is a wide area network WAN such as the Internet. In other embodiments network may be a local area network LAN or any combination of connections and protocols that will support communications between computing device computing device computing device and cloud computing node in accordance with embodiments of the invention. Network may include wired wireless or fiber optic connections. Computing environment may include additional computing devices servers or other devices not shown. 

Computing device is a laptop computer. In other embodiments computing device may be a desktop computer tablet computer smart phone or personal digital assistant PDA . In general computing device may be any electronic device or computing system capable of sending and receiving data and communicating with computing device computing device and cloud computing node over network . Computing device contains colony application A setup function A and device user interface UI configuration function A.

Computing device can include a smart phone. In other embodiments computing device may include a laptop computer tablet computer desktop computer or personal digital assistant PDA . In general computing device may be any electronic device or computing system capable of sending and receiving data and communicating with computing device computing device and cloud computing node over network . Computing device contains colony application B setup function B and device UI configuration function B.

Computing device and computing device are at location . Location is an area where computing device and computing device may communicate using a computer network with a small geographic scope. Computer networks with a small geographic scope range from Near Field Communication NFC to Local Area Networks LANs . A computer network with a small geographic scope typically does not have a connection to the Internet or other remote networks. In another embodiment location may be a geographic area defined by a Global Positioning System GPS coordinate and a radius around the GPS coordinate. In yet another embodiment location may be a geographic area defined by GPS coordinate boundaries.

In yet another embodiment location may be a location determined by a context of a device. In one embodiment the context of a device may be a representation of the physical world around the device. This embodiment may apply to locations that may not have been predetermined using GPS or to locations too small in nature to be referenced by GPS or LAN. The context of the device may be determined based on data collected from the device. The data collected from the device may be from any sensor with an available callable API. Example sensors may be an accelerometer a gyroscope an ambient light sensor a microphone a thermometer or a camera. For example using the data collected the device can determine the location of the device by comparing the data collected to a database of locations with associated data points. The data points may comprise sensor data expected to be detected in certain locations.

Computing device can include a laptop computer. In other embodiments computing device can include a desktop computer tablet computer smart phone or personal digital assistant PDA . In general computing device may be any electronic device or computing system capable of sending and receiving data and communicating with computing device computing device and cloud computing node over network . Computing device contains colony application C setup function C and device UI configuration function C.

Cloud computing node is a server computer. In other embodiments cloud computing node may be a management server a web server or any other electronic device capable of receiving and sending data. In another embodiment cloud computing node may represent a server computing system utilizing multiple computers as a server system such as in a cloud computing environment. Cloud computing node may be practiced in distributed cloud computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices linked through a communications network. In a distributed cloud computing environment programs may be located in both local and remote computer system storage devices including memory storage devices. Cloud computing node contains colony cloud service application . Colony cloud service application is a cloud service program that may facilitate the communication between colony application A B and C over network .

Computing device computing device computing device and cloud computing node may each include components as depicted in further detail with respect to .

In an example computing environment is a computing environment based around an event e.g. a disaster event such as a natural disaster event as described herein . In this example computing device is laptop computer with a large display attached as an external device. The large display may be used to show the layout of the event site. Computing device is a smart phone with an integrated camera and geotagging process of adding geographical identification metadata to various media capabilities. The camera and geotagging capabilities may be used to photograph and locate an object status situation etc. at an event. Computing device can include a laptop computer used by a coordinator who is offsite to monitor the site of event.

Colony application A is a collaborative computing program using a plurality of computing devices. In the context of the example of computing environment colony application A may be a custom event response coordination application. Colony application A executes setup function A and device UI configuration function A. In other embodiments the functionality of colony application A setup function A and device UI configuration function A may take place on cloud computing node . Colony application A B and C are different instances of the same application on different devices.

Setup function A operates to configure colony application A for operation. In one embodiment setup function A determines capabilities needed for colony application A to function. In one embodiment the capabilities needed for colony application A to function comprise device capabilities. Device capabilities may correspond to certain inputs or outputs. Device capabilities may also correspond to specific devices or device types. In the example of computing environment a laptop computer with a large display attached for output and a smart phone with an integrated camera and geotagging capabilities for input are needed for colony application A to function. In another embodiment the capabilities needed for colony application A to function may also comprise user capabilities. User capabilities may correspond to certain users that must be connected with colony application A. In the example of computing environment a coordinator using a laptop computer to monitor the site of the event may aid colony application A in functioning. However as described herein colony application A may be effectively crowd sourced such that a single coordinator is not necessary in order to provide the various functions of colony application A.

Setup function A may also operate to allow other instances of colony application A for example colony application B and C running on other devices to discover colony application A which has already been configured for a particular use. In one embodiment setup function A enables a device proximity detection function. Setup function A is discussed in further detail with respect to . Setup function A B and C operate in the same manner.

Device UI configuration function A operates to determine whether the capabilities needed for colony application A to function are met. In one embodiment device UI configuration function A analyzes the device capabilities of each device running other instances of colony application A e.g. colony application B and C which are connected to colony application A to determine if the capabilities needed for colony application A to function are met. In another embodiment device UI configuration function A may also analyze the user capabilities of a user using the instance of colony application A e.g. colony application B and C to determine if the capabilities needed for colony application A to function are met.

Device UI configuration function A may also operate to configure the UI s of the other instances of colony application A for example colony application B and C running on other devices. In one embodiment a UI is configured based on the device capabilities of the device running the instance of colony application A e.g. colony application B and C . The UI may also be configured based on the user capabilities of a user using the instance of colony application A e.g. colony application B and C .

The UI may also be configured based on the environment of the device running the instance of colony application A e.g. colony application B and C . In one embodiment the environment of the device is a location of the device. For example the location of the device may be the geographic location of the device. In another embodiment the environment of the device is a context of the device. The context of the device may be determined based on data collected from the device. Device UI configuration function A is discussed in further detail with respect to . Device UI configuration function A B and C operate in the same manner.

If the user decides to search for other instances of colony application A e.g. colony application B and C already configured for operation colony application A attempts to connect with the other instances of configured colony application A. In one embodiment colony application A looks for the other instances of colony application A connected to a common computer network with a small geographic scope e.g. NFC or LAN . For example if computing device has Bluetooth capabilities colony application A looks for other Bluetooth discoverable devices. The other discoverable devices may be running instances of colony application A configured for operation. In another embodiment colony application A looks for other instances of colony application A configured for operation connected to colony cloud service application . For example if an instance of colony application A already configured for operation is not connected to a computer network with a small geographic scope it will connect to colony cloud service application in order to communicate with other devices.

If the user decides to configure colony application A for a particular use the user will choose to initiate setup function A. In step setup function A is initiated by a user at computing device .

In step setup function A determines the capabilities needed for colony application A to function. In one embodiment the capabilities needed for colony application A to function are preconfigured in the application. In another embodiment the capabilities needed for colony application A to function are entered by the user. In yet another embodiment the capabilities needed for colony application A to function are determined by the user with guidance from a template. The template may be a list of suggested capabilities for a particular use of colony application A.

For example in the example of computing environment capabilities needed for colony application A to function comprise a laptop computer with a large display attached for output a smart phone with an integrated camera and geotagging capabilities for input and a coordinator using a laptop computer to monitor the event site. Setup function A may also determine optional capabilities to enhance the operation of colony application A. For example additional smart phones with an integrated camera and geotagging capabilities for input may be used.

In step setup function A enables a device proximity detection function to allow other instances of colony application A e.g. colony application B and C to connect to colony application A. In one embodiment setup function A connects colony application A to a common computer network with a small geographic scope e.g. NFC or LAN . For example if computing device has Bluetooth capabilities colony application A makes computing device discoverable. In another embodiment setup function A connects colony application A to colony cloud service application .

In step device UI configuration function A receives an indication that colony application B running on computing device has joined colony application A. In response to receiving the indication that colony application B running on computing device has joined colony application A device UI configuration function A determines the capabilities of computing device step . In one embodiment device UI configuration function A calls colony application B to retrieve the capabilities of computing device . The capabilities of computing device may be preregistered by the user using colony application B. The capabilities of computing device may be stored on computing device or on cloud computing node for use by colony application B. For example in the example of computing environment the capabilities of computing device comprise a smart phone with an integrated camera and geotagging capabilities for input . This example has a specific device type e.g. a smart phone and specific inputs e.g. camera geotagging .

In step device UI configuration function A determines the capabilities of the user at computing device . In one embodiment device UI configuration function A calls colony application B to retrieve the capabilities of the user at computing device . The capabilities of the user of computing device may be preregistered by the user using colony application B. The capabilities of the user may be stored on computing device or on cloud computing node for use by colony application B. For example in the example of computing environment the capabilities of the user of computing device comprise a coordinator to monitor the event site. This example may include a specific user type e.g. a coordinator .

In step device UI configuration function A determines the environment of computing device . In one embodiment the environment of the device is the location of the device. For example device UI configuration function A calls colony application B to determine a location of computing device . Colony application B sends a request for the geographic location of computing device to an application programming interface API of a GPS receiver not shown integrated with computing device . A GPS receiver can determine its location and present that location as longitude and latitude coordinates.

In another embodiment the environment of the device may be a context of the device. The context of the device may be determined based on data collected from the device. The data collected from the device may be from any sensor with an available callable API. For example device UI configuration function A may call colony application B to determine the context of computing device . Colony application B sends requests to the API s of all available sensors integrated with computing device . Example sensors may be an accelerometer a gyroscope an ambient light sensor a microphone or a thermometer.

Device UI configuration function A determines whether the capabilities needed for colony application A to function are met decision . In one embodiment device UI configuration function A compares the capabilities needed for colony application A to function created in step to the capabilities of computing device computing device the user of computing device and the user of computing device . The capabilities of computing device and the user of computing device may be preregistered for use by colony application A and therefore known to device UI configuration function A.

In the example of computing environment capabilities needed for colony application A to function comprise a laptop computer with a large display attached for output a smart phone with an integrated camera and geotagging capabilities for input and in some cases a coordinator using a laptop computer to monitor the event site. With only the capabilities of computing device computing device the user of computing device and the user of computing device the capabilities needed for colony application A to function may be met.

If device UI configuration function A determines that the capabilities needed for colony application A to function are met decision yes branch device UI configuration function A proceeds to step .

In step device UI configuration function A configures the UI of colony application B running on computing device . The UI of colony application B running on computing device is configured based on at least the capabilities of computing device . The UI of colony application B may also be configured based on the capabilities of the user at computing device . The UI of colony application B may also be configured based on the environment of computing device determined in step .

In one embodiment device UI configuration function A determines an appropriate UI for colony application B based on at least the capabilities of computing device . Each incidence of the colony application contains the same plurality of available UI s. Each of the plurality of available UI s may be associated with one or more device capabilities. These associations may be preregistered during the setup process of colony application A. Device UI configuration function A compares the capabilities of computing device to the device capabilities associated with each of the plurality of available UI s to find a complete match. Device UI configuration function A causes a particular UI with one or more associated device capabilities that completely match the capabilities of computing device to be displayed on computing device .

Each of the plurality of UI s may also be associated with one or more user capabilities or one or more device environments. The process of matching by device UI configuration function A functions in the same manner to find an appropriate UI for colony application B. For example if the environment of the device is the location of the device an appropriate UI may be associated with a specific geographic location. Device UI configuration function A would compare the environment geographic location of computing device to an environment associated with each of the plurality of available UI s to find a match.

In step device UI configuration function A sends command to begin operation to colony application A. In another embodiment after step is performed colony application A automatically begins operation. If device UI configuration function A determines the capabilities needed for colony application A to function are not met decision no branch device UI configuration function A causes the required capabilities still needed for colony application A to function to be displayed step . In one embodiment device UI configuration function A sends a command to the UI of colony application A on computing device to display a popup indicating the capabilities still needed. In another embodiment device UI configuration function A causes an indication of the capabilities still needed to be displayed in the UI of colony application B.

Cloud computing is a model of service delivery for enabling convenient on demand network access to a shared pool of configurable computing resources e.g. networks network bandwidth servers processing memory storage applications virtual machines and services that can be rapidly provisioned and released with minimal management effort or interaction with a provider of the service. This cloud model may include at least five characteristics at least three service models and at least four deployment models.

On demand self service a cloud consumer can unilaterally provision computing capabilities such as server time and network storage as needed automatically without requiring human interaction with the service s provider.

Broad network access capabilities are available over a network and accessed through standard mechanisms that promote use by heterogeneous thin or thick client platforms e.g. mobile phones laptops and PDAs .

Resource pooling the provider s computing resources are pooled to serve multiple consumers using a multi tenant model with different physical and virtual resources dynamically assigned and reassigned according to demand. There is a sense of location independence in that the consumer generally has no control or knowledge over the exact location of the provided resources but may be able to specify location at a higher level of abstraction e.g. country state or datacenter .

Rapid elasticity capabilities can be rapidly and elastically provisioned in some cases automatically to quickly scale out and rapidly release to quickly scale in. To the consumer the capabilities available for provisioning often appear to be unlimited and can be purchased in any quantity at any time.

Measured service cloud systems automatically control and optimize resource use by leveraging a metering capability at some level of abstraction appropriate to the type of service e.g. storage processing bandwidth and active consumer accounts . Resource usage can be monitored controlled and reported providing transparency for both the provider and consumer of the utilized service.

Service Models are as follows Software as a Service SaaS the capability provided to the consumer is to use the provider s applications running on a cloud infrastructure. The applications are accessible from various client devices through a thin client interface such as a web browser e.g. web based email . The consumer does not manage or control the underlying cloud infrastructure including network servers operating systems storage or even individual application capabilities with the possible exception of limited consumer specific application configuration settings.

Platform as a Service PaaS the capability provided to the consumer is to deploy onto the cloud infrastructure consumer created or acquired applications created using programming languages and tools supported by the provider. The consumer does not manage or control the underlying cloud infrastructure including networks servers operating systems or storage but has control over the deployed applications and possibly application hosting environment configurations.

Infrastructure as a Service IaaS the capability provided to the consumer is to provision processing storage networks and other fundamental computing resources where the consumer is able to deploy and run arbitrary software which can include operating systems and applications. The consumer does not manage or control the underlying cloud infrastructure but has control over operating systems storage deployed applications and possibly limited control of select networking components e.g. host firewalls .

Private cloud the cloud infrastructure is operated solely for an organization. It may be managed by the organization or a third party and may exist on premises or off premises.

Community cloud the cloud infrastructure is shared by several organizations and supports a specific community that has shared concerns e.g. mission security requirements policy and compliance considerations . It may be managed by the organizations or a third party and may exist on premises or off premises.

Public cloud the cloud infrastructure is made available to the general public or a large industry group and is owned by an organization selling cloud services.

Hybrid cloud the cloud infrastructure is a composition of two or more clouds private community or public that remain unique entities but are bound together by standardized or proprietary technology that enables data and application portability e.g. cloud bursting for load balancing between clouds .

A cloud computing environment is service oriented with a focus on statelessness low coupling modularity and semantic interoperability. At the heart of cloud computing is an infrastructure comprising a network of interconnected nodes.

Computing device computing device computing device and cloud computing node each include communications fabric which provides communications between computer processor s memory persistent storage communications unit and input output I O interface s . Communications fabric can be implemented with any architecture designed for passing data and or control information between processors such as microprocessors communications and network processors etc. system memory peripheral devices and any other hardware components within a system. For example communications fabric can be implemented with one or more buses.

Memory and persistent storage are computer readable storage media. In one embodiment memory includes random access memory RAM and cache memory . In general memory can include any suitable volatile or non volatile computer readable storage media.

Colony application A setup function A and device UI configuration function A are stored in persistent storage of computing device for execution by one or more of the respective computer processors of computing device via one or more memories of memory of computing device . Colony application B setup function B and device UI configuration function B are stored in persistent storage of computing device for execution by one or more of the respective computer processors of computing device via one or more memories of memory of computing device . Colony application C setup function C and device UI configuration function C are stored in persistent storage of computing device for execution by one or more of the respective computer processors of computing device via one or more memories of memory of computing device . Colony cloud service application is stored in persistent storage of cloud computing node for execution by one or more of the respective computer processors of cloud computing node via one or more memories of memory of cloud computing node . In this embodiment persistent storage includes a magnetic hard disk drive. Alternatively or in addition to a magnetic hard disk drive persistent storage can include a solid state hard drive a semiconductor storage device read only memory ROM erasable programmable read only memory EPROM flash memory or any other computer readable storage media that is capable of storing program instructions or digital information.

The media used by persistent storage may also be removable. For example a removable hard drive may be used for persistent storage . Other examples include optical and magnetic disks thumb drives and smart cards that are inserted into a drive for transfer onto another computer readable storage medium that is also part of persistent storage .

Communications unit in these examples provides for communications with other servers data processing systems or devices. In these examples communications unit includes one or more network interface cards. Communications unit may provide communications through the use of either or both physical and wireless communications links. Colony application A setup function A and device UI configuration function A may be downloaded to persistent storage of computing device through communications unit of computing device . Colony application B setup function A and device UI configuration function B may be downloaded to persistent storage of computing device through communications unit of computing device .

Colony application C setup function C and device UI configuration function C may be downloaded to persistent storage of computing device through communications unit of computing device . Colony cloud service application may be downloaded to persistent storage of cloud computing node through communications unit of cloud computing node .

I O interface s allows for input and output of data with other devices that may be connected to computing system . For example I O interface may provide a connection to external devices such as a keyboard keypad a touch screen and or some other suitable input device. External devices can also include portable computer readable storage media such as for example thumb drives portable optical or magnetic disks and memory cards. Software and data used to practice embodiments of the present invention e.g. colony application A setup function A and device UI configuration function A can be stored on such portable computer readable storage media and can be loaded onto persistent storage of computing device via I O interface s of computing device . Software and data used to practice embodiments of the present invention e.g. colony application B setup function B and device UI configuration function B can be stored on such portable computer readable storage media and can be loaded onto persistent storage of computing device via I O interface s of computing device . Software and data used to practice embodiments of the present invention e.g. colony application C setup function C and device UI configuration function C can be stored on such portable computer readable storage media and can be loaded onto persistent storage of computing device via I O interface s of computing device .

Software and data used to practice embodiments of the present invention e.g. colony cloud service application can be stored on such portable computer readable storage media and can be loaded onto persistent storage of cloud computing node via I O interface s of cloud computing node . I O interface s also connect to a display .

Display provides a mechanism to display data to a user and may be for example a computer monitor or a touch screen.

Hardware and software layer includes hardware and software components. Examples of hardware components include mainframes. In one example IBM zSeries systems and RISC Reduced Instruction Set Computer architecture based servers. In one example IBM pSeries systems IBM System x servers IBM BladeCenter systems storage devices networks and networking components. Examples of software components include network application server software. In one example IBM WebSphere application server software and database software. In one example IBM DB2 database software. IBM zSeries pSeries System x BladeCenter WebSphere and DB2 are trademarks of International Business Machines Corporation registered in many jurisdictions worldwide. 

Virtualization layer provides an abstraction layer from which the following examples of virtual entities may be provided virtual servers virtual storage virtual networks including virtual private networks virtual applications and operating systems and virtual clients.

In one example management layer may provide the functions described below. Resource provisioning provides dynamic procurement of computing resources and other resources that are utilized to perform tasks within the cloud computing environment. Metering and pricing provide cost tracking as resources are utilized within the cloud computing environment and billing or invoicing for consumption of these resources. In one example these resources may comprise application software licenses. Security provides identity verification for cloud consumers and tasks as well as protection for data and other resources. Consumer portal provides access to the cloud computing environment for consumers and system administrators. Service level management provides cloud computing resource allocation and management such that required service levels are met. Service Level Agreement SLA planning and fulfillment provides pre arrangement for and procurement of cloud computing resources for which a future requirement is anticipated in accordance with an SLA.

Workloads layer provides examples of functionality for which the cloud computing environment may be utilized. Examples of workloads and functions which may be provided from this layer include mapping and navigation software development and lifecycle management virtual classroom education delivery data analytics processing transaction processing and additional processing. As mentioned above all of the foregoing examples described with respect to are illustrative only and the invention is not limited to these examples.

It is understood that all functions of the present invention as described herein typically may be performed by the additional processing functionality of workloads layer which can be tangibly embodied as software and data used to practice embodiments of the present invention e.g. colony application A B or C setup function A B or C and device UI configuration function A B or C . However this need not be the case. Rather the functionality recited herein could be carried out implemented and or enabled by any of the layers or shown in .

According to various embodiments additional processes can include utilizing colony application A B C etc. to coordinate a collaborative response to an event e.g. a natural disaster event such as a hurricane tornado tsunami mudslide monsoon earthquake etc. In various embodiments one or more computing devices e.g. cloud computing node can communicate with other computing devices e.g. computing devices in order to coordinate a collaborative response to the event using a capabilities aware hive network e.g. colony cloud service application via network .

Process P prompting a plurality of users users A B C etc. to register with the capabilities aware hive network colony cloud service application . It is understood that registration with the capabilities aware hive network colony application A B C can be performed according to various embodiments described herein e.g. according to embodiments described with respect to . In particular embodiments the at least one computing device prompts the plurality of users to register with the capabilities aware hive network colony cloud service application using a mobile application colony application A B C etc. corresponding with the capabilities aware hive network. In various embodiments the colony application A B C etc. can provide a prompt to user requesting each user provide information about individual capabilities for response to the event individual capabilities data . Occurrence of the event can be indicated by event occurrence data which may be publicly available information about the event obtained via conventional media channels national news and or weather agencies response organizations etc. or may be obtained from one or more user s registered with the colony application A B C. Event occurrence data can indicate a nature of the event e.g. event type such as hurricane tornado monsoon etc. location of the event duration of the event geographic area affected by the event areas of restricted access caused by the event etc. 

Process P compiling the information individual capabilities data from the plurality of users about individual capabilities of those users for response to the event. In various embodiments the process of compiling includes categorizing the information individual capabilities data from the plurality of users about individual capabilities of each user e.g. in categories such as a equipment hardware e.g. whether a user has access to equipment such as motorized vehicles land water air transportation equipment earth moving equipment etc. b training skills e.g. whether a user has a particular skill or training such as in the medical field tactical operations crowd control disaster response etc. c accessibility to travel channels e.g. whether user has proximity to waterways roadways etc. d food water supplies e.g. whether user has access to or a store of food or water supplies etc. 

Process P obtaining data indicating occurrence of the event event occurrence data and in response to obtaining the data indicating occurrence of the event event occurrence data identifying and prioritizing individual user actions in response to the event based upon the information individual capabilities data about the individual capabilities for response to the event and

Process P providing user specific instructions user instructions to the plurality of users A B C etc. to perform the individual user actions to respond to the event. In various embodiments the user specific instructions user instructions are sent via colony application A B C to each individual user A B C respectively instructing the user to perform his her individual user actions in response to the occurrence of the event. In various embodiments the user specific instructions user instructions are individually tailored based upon the individual capabilities individual capabilities data of each user and the characteristics of the event as indicated by event occurrence data . In some embodiments the colony application A B C provides an individual user A B C with particular instructions that are not common to other users . In some cases for example where user A is a medical professional and based upon his her individual capabilities data it is evident that he she is capable of providing first aid to the injured in an area proximate user A colony application A may send user instructions requesting that user A travel to shelter A within a radius of the mobile device belonging to user A in order to provide first aid to the wounded at shelter A. Colony application A may further determine based upon event occurrence data that a particular pathway between the user A location indicated e.g. by conventional GPS technology accessible via mobile device by colony application A and shelter A is obstructed e.g. by a downed tree electrical cord etc. and may provide individualized instructions for travel to shelter A.

As described herein various approaches of coordinating a collaborative response to an event can differ from conventional approaches in that each user receives specific instructions for action in response to the event whereas conventional approaches use broad based feeds. That is these conventional approaches do not tailor instructions to individual users and as such can be inefficient in coordinating event response.

As described herein the computing device s are configured to communicate with user s via a cloud based communications protocol e.g. via cloud computing node or via a near field communication NFC based protocol.

It is reiterated that although this disclosure includes a detailed description on cloud computing implementation of the teachings recited herein are not limited to a cloud computing environment. Rather the embodiments of the present invention are intended to be implemented with any type of networked computing environment now known or later developed.

The programs described herein are identified based upon the application for which they are implemented in a specific embodiment of the invention. However it should be appreciated that any particular program nomenclature herein is used merely for convenience and thus the invention should not be limited to use solely in any specific application identified and or implied by such nomenclature.

The flowcharts and block diagrams in the Figures illustrate the architecture functionality and operation of possible implementations of systems methods and computer program products according to various embodiments of the present invention. In this regard each block in the flowchart or block diagrams may represent a module segment or portion of code which comprises one or more executable instructions for implementing the specified logical function s . It should also be noted that in some alternative implementations the functions noted in the block may occur out of the order noted in the Figures. For example two blocks shown in succession may in fact be executed substantially concurrently or the blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order depending upon the functionality involved. It will also be noted that each block of the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration and combinations of blocks in the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration can be implemented by special purpose hardware based systems that perform the specified functions or acts or combinations of special purpose hardware and computer instructions.

In various embodiments components described as being coupled to one another can be joined along one or more interfaces. In some embodiments these interfaces can include junctions between distinct components and in other cases these interfaces can include a solidly and or integrally formed interconnection. That is in some cases components that are coupled to one another can be simultaneously formed to define a single continuous member. However in other embodiments these coupled components can be formed as separate members and be subsequently joined through known processes e.g. soldering fastening ultrasonic welding bonding . In various embodiments electronic components described as being coupled can be linked via conventional hard wired and or wireless means such that these electronic components can communicate data with one another.

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular example embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting. As used herein the singular forms a an and the may be intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. The terms comprises comprising including and having are inclusive and therefore specify the presence of stated features integers steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps operations elements components and or groups thereof. The method steps processes and operations described herein are not to be construed as necessarily requiring their performance in the particular order discussed or illustrated unless specifically identified as an order of performance. It is also to be understood that additional or alternative steps may be employed.

When an element or layer is referred to as being on engaged to connected to or coupled to another element or layer it may be directly on engaged connected or coupled to the other element or layer or intervening elements or layers may be present. In contrast when an element is referred to as being directly on directly engaged to directly connected to or directly coupled to another element or layer there may be no intervening elements or layers present. Other words used to describe the relationship between elements should be interpreted in a like fashion e.g. between versus directly between adjacent versus directly adjacent etc. . As used herein the term and or includes any and all combinations of one or more of the associated listed items.

Spatially relative terms such as inner outer beneath below lower above upper and the like may be used herein for ease of description to describe one element or feature s relationship to another element s or feature s as illustrated in the figures. Spatially relative terms may be intended to encompass different orientations of the device in use or operation in addition to the orientation depicted in the figures. For example if the device in the figures is turned over elements described as below or beneath other elements or features would then be oriented above the other elements or features. Thus the example term below can encompass both an orientation of above and below. The device may be otherwise oriented rotated 90 degrees or at other orientations and the spatially relative descriptors used herein interpreted accordingly.

The foregoing description of various aspects of the invention has been presented for purposes of illustration and description. It is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise form disclosed and obviously many modifications and variations are possible. Such modifications and variations that may be apparent to an individual in the art are included within the scope of the invention as defined by the accompanying claims.

This written description uses examples to disclose the invention including the best mode and also to enable any person skilled in the art to practice the invention including making and using any devices or systems and performing any incorporated methods. The patentable scope of the invention is defined by the claims and may include other examples that occur to those skilled in the art. Such other examples are intended to be within the scope of the claims if they have structural elements that do not differ from the literal language of the claims or if they include equivalent structural elements with insubstantial differences from the literal languages of the claims.

The descriptions of the various embodiments of the present invention have been presented for purposes of illustration but are not intended to be exhaustive or limited to the embodiments disclosed. Many modifications and variations will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art without departing from the scope and spirit of the described embodiments. The terminology used herein was chosen to best explain the principles of the embodiments the practical application or technical improvement over technologies found in the marketplace or to enable others of ordinary skill in the art to understand the embodiments disclosed herein.

