---

title: System and method for evaluating lead stability of an implantable medical device
abstract: A method and system are provided that provide feedback regarding lead stability for a candidate target vessel, and provide guidance on a type of lead to be used. The method and system utilize a surgical navigation system and information regarding patient anatomy to predict lead stability within the patient anatomy. The method and system provide patient-specific force measurements for one or more vessels of a patient.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09302099&OS=09302099&RS=09302099
owner: Pacesetter, Inc.
number: 09302099
owner_city: Sunnyvale
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150504
---
The present application relates to and claims priority from U.S. provisional application Ser. No. 61 988 774 filed May 5 2014 entitled SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR EVALUATING LEAD STABILITY OF AN IMPLANTABLE DEVICE which is hereby expressly incorporated by reference in its entirety.

Embodiments of the present disclosure generally relate to systems and methods for evaluating lead stability of an implantable medical device.

Lead dislodgement is a common complication of cardiac resynchronization therapy CRT implants that may lead to increased capture thresholds loss of capture reduced biventricular pacing and reduced response. Depending on the severity of the dislodgement there is typically a need for re intervention to re stabilize the lead which may lead to further complications. Possible causes of lead dislodgement include twiddler syndrome device migration especially in obese patients and excessive movement due to cardiac and or respiratory motion especially during hyperapnea.

The St. Jude Medical MediGuide MDG cardiovascular navigation system is a 3 D electromagnetic navigation system that provides real time position and orientation of MDG sensors embedded in electrophysiological tools. The MDG system may be integrated with a fluoroscopic imaging system and tracks the sensors continuously within the imaging volume of the fluoroscopic system on both live fluoroscopy and pre recorded backgrounds.

Embodiments of the present disclosure provide systems and methods for predicting lead stability in candidate vessels at the time of implant in order to guide a physician to an optimal implant site and to recommend which lead to use.

Certain embodiments of the present disclosure provide a method that may include providing feedback regarding lead stability for a candidate target vessel and providing guidance on a type of lead to be used.

Certain embodiments of the present disclosure provide a method that may include utilizing a surgical navigation system and information regarding patient anatomy to predict lead stability within the patient anatomy.

Certain embodiments of the present disclosure provide a method that may include providing patient specific force measurements for one or more vessels of a patient.

Certain embodiments of the present disclosure provide a system for determining a lead placement site within patient anatomy. The system may include at least one processor configured to calculate a lead stability index LSI relating to a lead placement site for one or more candidate vessels and a display operatively coupled to the at least one processor. The display is configured to show data related to the lead placement site. The processor s may be configured to display the data related to the lead placement site on the display as color coded data.

In at least one embodiment the processor s may be configured to calculate the LSI through the following equation 

The processor s may be configured to calculate the LSI of the one or more candidate vessels based on motion and anatomical measurements in each of the one more candidate vessels. The processor s may be configured to calculate the LSI at least in part by accounting for one or more of a acceleration experienced by the one or more candidate vessels b vessel tortuosity c vessel length and or d ostial angle.

Certain embodiments of the present disclosure provide a method for determining a lead placement site within patient anatomy. The method may include calculating a lead stability index LSI relating to lead placement site for one or more candidate vessels and displaying data related to the lead placement site.

The foregoing summary as well as the following detailed description of certain embodiments will be better understood when read in conjunction with the appended drawings. As used herein an element or step recited in the singular and preceded by the word a or an should be understood as not necessarily excluding the plural of the elements or steps. Further references to one embodiment are not intended to be interpreted as excluding the existence of additional embodiments that also incorporate the recited features. Moreover unless explicitly stated to the contrary embodiments comprising or having an element or a plurality of elements having a particular property may include additional elements not having that property.

Embodiments herein may be implemented with and or utilize aspects of the methods and system described in the following applications 

All of the above cited applications are expressly incorporated herein by reference in their entireties.

The imaging sub system may include one or more of an X ray fluoroscope CT MRI Positron Emission Tomography PET ultrasound or other such imaging systems. For example the imaging sub system may include MRI and CT imaging systems. In general the imaging sub system may include a radiation source or generator and a radiation sensor or detector.

The surgical navigation sub system may include a main housing such as a computer workstation operatively connected to a display that is configured to display images thereon. The display may be or include a monitor screen television or the like for example. The surgical navigation sub system may be used to electromagnetically track movement of probes of the positioning sub system before and during a procedure. The surgical navigation sub system may be used to automate surgical planning and lead or probe placement while displaying a current position of the lead or probe within the patient anatomy.

The main housing may contain a registration module a tracking module and a display module . The registration module may be configured to register reference members such as fiducials coils and or the like of a frame probe or the like with one or more reference markers points or the like of images of patient anatomy. The tracking module is configured to track movement of a probe for example with respect to an area or volume such as within the heart. The display module is configured to display a representation of the probe for example on one or more acquired images on the display based on the movement of the probe as determined by the tracking module .

Each of the modules and may include any processor based or microprocessor based system including systems using microcontrollers reduced instruction set computers RISC application specific integrated circuits ASICs logic circuits and any other circuit or processor capable of executing the functions described herein. For example each of the modules and may be or include at least one processor and at least one memory. The above are exemplary only and are thus not intended to limit in any way the definition and or meaning of the term computer or module. 

The surgical navigation sub system may also include a tracking assembly in the vicinity of the patient . For example the tracking assembly may include a housing situated on or underneath a platform on which the patient rests. The tracking assembly may include one or more transmitters configured to radiate a field such as an electromagnetic field within the vicinity of the patient . The field radiated by the transmitters may be detected by a position detector of a probe for example as described below.

The surgical navigation sub system may be used with various anatomical structures. For example the surgical navigation sub system may be used to track movement of devices instruments probes and the like within the heart of the patient.

The surgical navigation sub system may be further described with respect to U.S. Pat. No. 7 811 294 entitled Automatic Guidewire Maneuvering System and Method which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety. The surgical navigation sub system may be used to visualize movement of the probe with respect to one or more images of the heart. The surgical navigation sub system may be used to automatically move a probe according to a surgical plan. Optionally the surgical navigation sub system may be used to simply superimpose an image of the probe with respect to the image s of the heart brain or the like in order to track movement of the surgical probe with respect thereto.

To sense the left atrial and left ventricular cardiac signals and to provide left chamber stimulation therapy the IMD is coupled to a lead designed for placement in the coronary sinus region via the coronary sinus ostium in order to place a distal electrode adjacent to the left ventricle and additional electrode s adjacent to the left atrium. As used herein the phrase coronary sinus region refers to the venous vasculature of the left ventricle including any portion of the coronary sinus great cardiac vein left marginal vein left posterior ventricular vein middle cardiac vein and or small cardiac vein or any other cardiac vein accessible by the coronary sinus.

Accordingly the lead is designed to receive atrial and or ventricular cardiac signals deliver left ventricular pacing therapy using at least one left ventricular tip electrode for unipolar configurations or in combination with left ventricular ring electrode for bipolar configurations and or deliver left atrial pacing therapy using at least one left atrial ring electrode as well as shocking therapy using at least one left atrial coil electrode .

The IMD is also shown in electrical communication with the patient s heart by way of an implantable right ventricular RV lead including in the embodiment a right ventricular RV tip electrode a right ventricular ring electrode a right ventricular coil electrode a superior vena cava SVC coil electrode and so on. Typically the right ventricular lead is inserted transvenously into the heart so as to place the right ventricular tip electrode in the right ventricular apex such that the RV coil electrode is positioned in the right ventricle and the SVC coil electrode will be positioned in the right atrium and or superior vena cava. Accordingly the right ventricular lead is capable of receiving cardiac signals and delivering stimulation in the form of pacing and shock therapy to the right ventricle.

The IMD may be one of various types of implantable devices such as for example an implantable pacemaker implantable cardioverter defibrillator ICD neurostimulator electrophysiology EP mapping and radio frequency RF ablation system or the like. Optionally the IMD may be configured to provide leadless therapy.

Referring to the surgical navigation sub system and or at least one processor which may be contained within the surgical navigation sub system or another sub system may be used to guide a lead to an implant site such as within a heart of a patient. Before placement of the LV lead a lead stability index LSI may be calculated for each candidate vessel that may guide the physician to the site of LV lead placement as well as provide guidance on the type of lead to be implanted. The information may be conveyed to the physician in a visual manner such as through color coding of the geometry and in a quantitative manner by providing the LSI score. LSI parameters may be measured by placing an MDG enabled tool along the length of the candidate target branches. LSI may be calculated as

Where T is a measure of vessel tortuosity L is the vessel length a is the largest second derivative of the three dimensional 3 D motion experienced by the vessel is the ostial take off angle and is a constant.

The LSI measurements may be refined through processes that include the addition of maximum lead body mechanical stress s and the blood pressure differential from the tip to the ostium of the vessel P . If these measurements are used then LSI may be calculated as follows 

In the case of patient specific computational modeling of lead stress measurements different lead types may be evaluated and the lead type with the highest LSI score may be recommended.

Referring to before placement of the LV lead the surgical navigation system such as an MDG system calculates a lead stability index LSI of candidate vessels based on motion and anatomical measurements in each vessel. The lower the LSI index the higher the likelihood of lead dislodgement. Based on these measurements as well as motion measurements an optimal site of LV lead placement may be recommended to the physician. In order to calculate the LSI the following parameters may be measured or taken into account 

Acceleration a using an MDG enabled tool such as a MDG enabled guidewire the motion of the vessel and therefore the lead may be measured during different phases of the cardiac and respiratory cycles. The second derivative of the 3D motion signals x y z may then be calculated to obtain 3 acceleration signals. The parameter a may be the maximum acceleration among the three signals experienced by the vessel in any dimension at any point in the recording.

Vessel tortuosity T the trajectory of the MDG enabled tool within the vessel may be evaluated to determine the degree of tortuosity. The more tortuous a vessel is with additional curves and bends the more contact between the lead body and the vessel wall the higher the frictional forces between their interfaces and the more stable the lead. For a given bend below a certain pre defined angle threshold such as 60 degrees a value of 1 may be added to the tortuosity value T.

Vessel length L the trajectory of the tool may be analyzed to determine the length of the vessel. The longer the vessel the further the lead may be wedged into the vessel and the higher the stability index.

Ostial angle a more acute take off angle in radians at the target branch ostium increases lead stability.

With the above measurements the LSI may be defined as K is a scaling factor to be determined empirically 

LSI may be further refined through lead body mechanical stress s if a point by point measurement of motion along the length of the vessel is possible the internal strain of the lead may be calculated. With known lead geometry mass and material properties the measured strains may be translated into mechanical stress using techniques such as assumed normalized values for all patients or patient specific computational modeling that takes all applied forces into account. If there are areas of high stress larger than a pre defined threshold within the calculated stress profile of the lead the LSI may be reduced as the lead body would move in response to the exerted stress. The parameter s is defined as the maximum stress experienced in any dimension. With this measurement different lead geometries designs may be considered and an optimal lead type may be recommended to the physician.

LSI may also be refined through blood pressure differential AP two blood pressure measurements may be taken one at the distal end of the vessel and one at the proximal end of the vessel close to the target vein ostium. The higher the blood pressure differential within the vessel the more blood flow and therefore more forces are applied to the lead body. Higher AP may correspond to lower LSI.

The computations and analyses described in the present application may be performed by one or more processors which may include or be communicatively coupled to one or more memories.

Various embodiments described herein provide a tangible and non transitory for example not an electric signal machine readable medium or media having instructions recorded thereon for one or more processors or computers to operate a system to perform one or more embodiments of methods described herein. The medium or media may be any type of CD ROM DVD floppy disk hard disk optical disk flash RAM drive or other type of computer readable medium or a combination thereof.

The various embodiments and or components for example the sub systems systems control units modules or components and controllers therein also may be implemented as part of one or more computers or processors. The computer or processor may include a computing device an input device a display unit and an interface for example for accessing the Internet. The computer or processor may include a microprocessor. The microprocessor may be connected to a communication bus. The computer or processor may also include a memory. The memory may include Random Access Memory RAM and Read Only Memory ROM . The computer or processor may also include a storage device which may be a hard disk drive or a removable storage drive such as a floppy disk drive optical disk drive and the like. The storage device may also be other similar means for loading computer programs or other instructions into the computer or processor.

As used herein the term computer or module may include any processor based or microprocessor based system including systems using microcontrollers reduced instruction set computers RISC application specific integrated circuits ASICs logic circuits and any other circuit or processor capable of executing the functions described herein. The above examples are exemplary only and are thus not intended to limit in any way the definition and or meaning of the term computer or module. 

The computer or processor executes a set of instructions that are stored in one or more storage elements in order to process input data. The storage elements may also store data or other information as desired or needed. The storage element may be in the form of an information source or a physical memory element within a processing machine.

The set of instructions may include various commands that instruct the computer or processor as a processing machine to perform specific operations such as the methods and processes of the various embodiments of the subject matter described herein. The set of instructions may be in the form of a software program. The software may be in various forms such as system software or application software. Further the software may be in the form of a collection of separate programs or modules a program module within a larger program or a portion of a program module. The software also may include modular programming in the form of object oriented programming. The processing of input data by the processing machine may be in response to user commands or in response to results of previous processing or in response to a request made by another processing machine.

As used herein the terms software and firmware may be interchangeable and include any computer program stored in memory for execution by a computer including RAM memory ROM memory EEPROM memory and non volatile RAM NVRAM memory. The above memory types are exemplary only and are thus not limiting as to the types of memory usable for storage of a computer program.

While various spatial and directional terms such as top bottom lower mid lateral horizontal vertical front and the like may be used to describe embodiments it is understood that such terms are merely used with respect to the orientations shown in the drawings. The orientations may be inverted rotated or otherwise changed such that an upper portion is a lower portion and vice versa horizontal becomes vertical and the like.

It is to be understood that the above description is intended to be illustrative and not restrictive. For example the above described embodiments and or aspects thereof may be used in combination with each other. In addition many modifications may be made to adapt a particular situation or material to the teachings of the disclosure without departing from its scope. While the dimensions types of materials and coatings described herein are intended to define the parameters of the disclosure they are by no means limiting and are exemplary embodiments. Many other embodiments will be apparent to those of skill in the art upon reviewing the above description. The scope of the disclosure should therefore be determined with reference to the appended claims along with the full scope of equivalents to which such claims are entitled. In the appended claims the terms including and in which are used as the plain English equivalents of the respective terms comprising and wherein. Moreover in the following claims the terms first second and third etc. are used merely as labels and are not intended to impose numerical requirements on their objects. Further the limitations of the following claims are not written in means plus function format and are not intended to be interpreted based on 35 U.S.C. 112 f unless and until such claim limitations expressly use the phrase means for followed by a statement of function void of further structure.

