---

title: Semiconductor device design method
abstract: A method of generating a netlist comprises extracting a first capacitance value between the first set of electrical components inside a defined region using a first extraction technique. The method additionally comprises extracting a second capacitance value between a second set of electrical components comprising at least one electrical component outside the defined region using a second extraction technique different from the first extraction technique. The method also comprises generating the netlist including the first capacitance value and the second capacitance value. The first extraction technique is capable of extracting capacitance values between electrical components arranged in a first quantity of directions with respect to one another and the second extraction technique is capable of extracting capacitance values between electrical components arranged in a second quantity of directions with respect to one another. The first quantity of directions is greater than the second quantity of directions.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09223922&OS=09223922&RS=09223922
owner: TAIWAN SEMICONDUCTOR MANUFACTURING COMPANY, LTD.
number: 09223922
owner_city: 
owner_country: TW
publication_date: 20150316
---
The present application is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 14 291 285 filed May 30 2014 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 990 762 which is a divisional of U.S. application Ser. No. 13 547 251 filed Jul. 12 2012 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 769 451 which are incorporated by reference herein in their entireties.

The recent trend in miniaturizing integrated circuits ICs has resulted in smaller devices which consume less power yet provide more functionality at higher speeds than before. The miniaturization process has also resulted in stricter design and manufacturing specifications. Pre manufacture checking and testing are performed to make sure that a semiconductor device can be made and will function as designed.

It is to be understood that the following disclosure provides many different embodiments or examples for implementing different features of various embodiments. Specific examples of components and arrangements are described below to simplify the present disclosure. An inventive concept may however be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as being limited to the embodiments set forth herein rather these embodiments are provided so that this description will be thorough and complete and will fully convey an inventive concept to those of ordinary skill in the art. It will be apparent however that one or more embodiments may be practiced without these specific details.

In the drawings the thickness and width of layers and regions are exaggerated for clarity. Like reference numerals in the drawings denote like elements. The elements and regions illustrated in the figures are schematic in nature and thus relative sizes or intervals illustrated in the figures are not intended to limit the scope of an inventive concept.

Some embodiments describe a semiconductor device design method and system in which parasitic parameters inside and outside a region of a layout of a semiconductor device are extracted by different tools and or methodologies. For example a parasitic parameter extraction tool methodology with higher accuracy and higher demand for computing resources is used for extracting parasitic parameters inside the region whereas another parasitic parameter extraction tool methodology with lower accuracy and lower demand for computing resources is used for extracting parasitic parameters outside the region. As a result it is possible to combine accuracy and efficiency of various parasitic parameter extraction tools and or methodologies while achieving a fast and accurate parasitic parameters extraction result. In some embodiments a first RC extraction tool or methodology is considered more accurate than a second RC extraction tool or methodology when the first RC extraction tool or methodology is configured to extract more types of parasitic parameters between electrical components than the second RC extraction tool or methodology. Additionally or alternatively a first RC extraction tool or methodology is considered more accurate than a second RC extraction tool or methodology if the first RC extraction tool or methodology extracts a parasitic parameter while taking into consideration more electrical components than the second RC extraction tool or methodology when the second RC extraction tool or methodology is used to extract the same parasitic parameter.

At operation a design of a semiconductor device is generated or provided by a circuit designer. In some embodiments the design is generated or provided in the form of a schematic netlist such as a Simulation Program with Integrated Circuit Emphasis SPICE netlist. Other data formats for describing the design are usable in some embodiments.

At operation a pre layout simulation is performed e.g. by an EDA tool such as HSPICE available from Synopsys Inc. of Mountain View Calif. on the design to determine whether the design meets a predetermined specification. If the design does not meet the predetermined specification the semiconductor device is redesigned. In some embodiments a SPICE simulation is performed on the SPICE netlist generated or provided at operation . Other simulation tools are usable in place of or in addition to the SPICE simulation in other embodiments.

At operation a layout of the semiconductor device is generated based on the design. In some embodiments the layout is generated in the form of a Graphic Design System GDS file by an EDA tool such as VIRTUOSO available from Cadence Design Systems Inc. of San Jose Calif. Other tools and or data formats for describing the layout are usable in other embodiments.

At operation a layout versus schematic LVS extraction or check is performed. The LVS check is run to ensure that the generated layout corresponds to the design. Specifically an LVS extraction tool i.e. an EDA tool such as CALIBRE available from Mentor Graphics Inc. of Wilsonville Oreg. recognizes electrical components as well as connections therebetween from the pattern of the generated layout. The LVS extraction tool then generates a layout netlist representing the recognized electrical components and connections. The layout netlist generated from the layout is compared with the schematic netlist of the design. If the two netlists match within a matching tolerance the LVS check is passed. Otherwise correction is made to at least one of the layout or the design by returning the process to operation and or operation .

In some embodiments a design rule check DRC is also performed for example before the LVS check to ensure that the layout satisfies certain manufacturing design rules i.e. to ensure that the semiconductor device can be manufactured. If one or more design rules is violated correction is made to at least one of the layout or the design by returning the process to operation and or operation . Other verification processes are usable in other embodiments.

At operation a resistance and capacitance RC extraction is performed e.g. by an EDA tool such as HIPEX available from Silvaco Inc. of Santa Clara Calif. The RC extraction is run to determine parasitic parameters e.g. parasitic resistance and parasitic capacitance of interconnects in the semiconductor device s layout for timing simulations in a subsequent operation. Such parasitic parameters are not intended by the circuit designer but nevertheless occur as a result of configurations and or materials of the pattern in the layout. In some embodiments a technology file is used by an RC extraction tool i.e. another EDA tool to extract parasitic parameters. The extracted parasitic parameters are added to the netlist provided by the LVS extraction tool to output a modified netlist.

At operation a post layout simulation is performed to determine taking the extracted parasitic parameters into account whether the layout meets a predetermined specification. Specifically a simulation tool i.e. another EDA tool performs a simulation on the modified netlist outputted by the RC extraction tool. If the simulation indicates that the layout does not meet the predetermined specification e.g. if the parasitic parameters cause undesirable delays correction is made to at least one of the layout or the design by returning the process to operation and or operation . Otherwise the layout is passed to manufacture or additional verification processes. In some embodiments the post layout simulation is a SPICE simulation. Other simulation tools are usable in place of or in addition to SPICE in some embodiments.

The accuracy and speed of the RC extraction are design considerations which under certain circumstances might be in conflict with each other. On the one hand an accurate RC extraction results in an accurate timing simulation in a subsequent post layout simulation which in turn permits an accurate evaluation of the layout for semiconductor devices to be manufactured. On the other hand an accurate RC extraction often demands more computing resources and is therefore slower than a less accurate RC extraction. At lower process nodes it is possible to sacrifice some degrees of accuracy to obtain a desired RC extraction speed by performing a less accurate RC extraction. However at advanced process nodes various devices have complex 3 dimensional 3D structures and or the devices are densely placed with respect to each other which raise timing concerns. To address such timing concerns an accurate RC extraction is performed at the expense of speed. In certain cases where a full chip RC extraction is to be performed the RC extraction speed may become undesirably slow.

Some embodiments therefore provide a compromise by performing an accurate RC extraction in areas where RC extraction accuracy is preferred and a less accurate RC extraction in areas where RC extraction speed is preferred. As a result it is possible to achieve a fast and accurate mixed RC extraction that is suitable for full chip RC extraction at advanced nodes.

The semiconductor substrate includes but is not limited to bulk silicon a semiconductor wafer a silicon on insulator SOI substrate or a silicon germanium substrate. Other semiconductor materials including group III group IV and group V elements are used in some embodiments.

Each of the electrical components includes at least a portion or an entirety of an active element or a passive element. Examples of active elements include but are not limited to transistors and diodes. Examples of transistors include but are not limited to metal oxide semiconductor field effect transistors MOSFET complementary metal oxide semiconductor CMOS transistors bipolar junction transistors BJT high voltage transistors high frequency transistors p channel and or n channel field effect transistors PFETs NFETs etc. FinFETs and planar MOS transistors with raised source drains. Examples of passive elements include but are not limited to capacitors inductors fuses resistors and interconnects. Examples of interconnects include but are not limited to vias conductive pads conductive traces and conductive redistribution layers.

In the semiconductor device the electrical components include oxide definition OD regions wiring parts vias metal parts polysilicon PO region and a wiring part . The OD regions are doped regions that define source drain regions of a transistor. The PO region which is metal in one or more embodiments defines a gate electrode of the transistor. The wiring parts and via serially connect the OD region to the metal part . The wiring parts and via serially connect the OD region to the metal part . The wiring part is connected to the PO region and together with the metal parts electrically connects the gate drain and source of the transistor to external circuitry or to other active or passive elements of the semiconductor device .

The electrical components are arranged in a 3D arrangement in various layers stacked one on top another in a thickness direction vertical direction in the drawing of of the semiconductor device . More specifically the wiring parts are formed in a layer MD1 over the OD regions and the wiring parts are formed in a layer MD2 over the layer MD1 the vias are formed in a via 0 V0 layer over the layer MD2 the metal parts are formed in a metal 1 M1 layer over the V0 layer the PO region is formed over the semiconductor substrate and the wiring part is formed in a layer MP over the PO region . The above described structure is only an example configuration and other arrangements of electrical components in the semiconductor device are contemplated in various embodiments. For example in one or more embodiments. more than one metal layers e.g. a metal 2 M2 layer and up are formed over the M1 layer. The metal layers are connected with each other by via layers e.g. a via 1 V1 layer and up each interposed between a pair of adjacent metal layers.

An RC extraction methodology in accordance with some embodiments includes recognizing one or more predetermined patterns also referred to as primitive patterns of one or more electrical components in the semiconductor device and extracting parasitic parameters from the recognized patterns. For example a pattern of metal parts in the M1 layer is recognized as a primitive pattern by e.g. referring to a database of primitive patterns and a parasitic capacitance between the metal parts is extracted. Likewise a pattern of the wiring part in the layer MP and the wiring part in the layer MD2 which are at about the same level is recognized as a primitive pattern and a parasitic capacitance between the wiring parts is extracted. A pattern of the wiring part in the layer MP and the wiring part in the layer MD1 which are at different layers levels is also recognized as a primitive pattern and a parasitic capacitance between the wiring parts is extracted.

The primitive patterns are recognizable in accordance with some embodiments by a 2.5 dimensional 2.5D RC extraction methodology. The 2.5D RC extraction methodology is more accurate than a 2 dimensional 2D RC extraction methodology in that it permits extraction of parasitic parameters in some 3D directions as shown in the patterns . The 2.5D RC extraction methodology is however less accurate than a 3D RC extraction methodology. A benefit of using primitive patterns in a 2.5D RC extraction methodology is to reduce the extraction time compared to a 3D RC extraction methodology.

In some embodiments a first approach for reducing the extraction time in the 2.5D RC extraction of a parasitic parameter is to use a subset of the electrical components . For example for the parasitic capacitance the subset used for the 2.5D RC extraction includes the pattern with the wiring part and the wiring part . In contrast for extracting the same parasitic parameter i.e. the parasitic capacitance electrical components other than the subset of the wiring part and the wiring part are used in a 3D RC extraction tool or methodology. In accordance with a second approach in lieu of or in addition to the first approach for reducing the extraction time in a 2.5D RC extraction in accordance with some embodiments parasitic parameters are pre extracted or pre characterized and stored into a look up table. Thus after a primitive pattern e.g. the pattern is recognized from the layout the corresponding pre extracted parasitic parameter s e.g. the parasitic capacitance is are retrieved from the look up table without performing time consuming extraction. However compared to a 3D RC extraction methodology in accordance with some embodiments the described 2.5D RC extraction methodology is less accurate in one or more aspects. First as described above during a 2.5D RC extraction of a certain parasitic parameter some electrical components also referred to as polygons are not included in the corresponding primitive pattern and therefore the electrical field around one or more polygons in the primitive pattern is not the same as when the whole chip or the whole semiconductor device is extracted with a 3D RC extraction methodology in accordance with some embodiments.

For example the pattern does not include the wiring part and therefore the electrical field around one or more of the wiring part or the wiring part in the pattern is not the same as when the whole chip or the whole semiconductor device is extracted with a 3D RC extraction methodology. Therefore there is a certain degree of inaccuracy of the parasitic parameter extracted by a 2.5D RC extraction methodology. Second it is not easy in practice to represent various layouts by a set of primitive patterns. In some embodiments if a 2.5D RC extraction tool is unable to find a primitive pattern that exactly matches a subset of electrical components the 2.5D RC extraction tool chooses the closest primitive pattern for parasitic parameter extraction which results in a certain degree of inaccuracy of the parasitic parameter being extracted.

To the contrary a 3D RC extraction methodology uses more electrical components than a 2.5D RC extraction methodology for extracting the same parasitic parameter and is therefore more accurate than the 2.5D RC extraction methodology. In some embodiments the 3D RC extraction methodology extracts parasitic parameters for electrical components including wiring parts and vias in the semiconductor device or in a region thereof without dividing the electrical components into a set of primitive patterns. As a result the 3D RC extraction methodology is more accurate than the 2.5D RC extraction methodology. However the 2.5D RC extraction methodology involves a lower computational load and is therefore faster than the 3D RC extraction methodology. The 2.5D RC extraction methodology also demands less computing resources which include but are not limited to processor time memory and or storage space network throughput electrical power and other similar computing resources. Thus the lower level i.e. 2.5D RC extraction methodology is faster less accurate and less demanding in term of computing resource than the higher i.e. 3D RC extraction methodology. This applies to the chain from 3D 2.5D 2D to 1D RC extraction methodologies.

Some embodiments provide a compromise in that a parasitic parameter extraction tool methodology with higher accuracy and higher demand for computing resources is used for extracting parasitic parameters inside a region where accuracy is preferred whereas another parasitic parameter extraction tool methodology with lower accuracy and lower demand for computing resources is used for extracting parasitic parameters outside the region where speed and or efficiency is are preferred. As a result it is possible to combine accuracy and efficiency of various parasitic parameter extraction tools and or methodologies while achieving a fast and accurate parasitic parameters extraction result.

In some embodiments the region is a 3D region which has a Z boundary in the thickness direction Z direction of the semiconductor device as shown in . The region also has boundaries in the X Y plane e.g. an X boundary in the X direction and a Y boundary in the Y direction as shown in . The boundaries are specified by a user and or automatically generated by a semiconductor device design system described hereinafter. In one or more embodiments the region is not necessarily box shaped as illustrated in . In one or more embodiments an electrical component is partially inside the region and partially outside the region such as vias illustrated in .

In some embodiments the user specifies the X boundary and Y boundary in a layout of the semiconductor device . The user further specifies the Z boundary e.g. by identifying the number of layers in the thickness of the semiconductor device that are to be included in the region . In one or more embodiments the Z boundary includes all layers of the semiconductor device . In one or more embodiments the Z boundary includes less than all layers of the semiconductor device as illustrated in .

In some embodiments the semiconductor device design system automatically recognizes the region from the layout of the semiconductor device as a region where RC extraction accuracy is preferred over efficiency and automatically identifies all of the boundaries of the region . For example the LVS extraction tool described with respect to is configured to automatically recognize various electrical components e.g. transistors conductors etc. of the semiconductor device . In some embodiments transistors especially those with complex 3D structure are to be subject to an RC extraction methodology more accurate than that to be used for the conductors. The LVS extraction tool therefore automatically identifies the locations of those transistors. Then another EDA tool such as an RC extraction tool uses the location information of the transistors to automatically generate the X boundary and the Y boundary based on pre defined rules. In some embodiments the types of electrical components that are to be subjected to an RC extraction methodology more accurate than that to be used for the other electrical components of the semiconductor device are preset in the RC extraction tool.

In some embodiments the region is identified both by user defined settings and the semiconductor device design system. For example the user identifies the Z boundary whereas the semiconductor device design system automatically identifies the X boundary and Y boundary of the region . Specifically on the one hand the user identifies the layers to be included in the region e.g. from the substrate to the V0 layer as the Z boundary . The semiconductor device design system on the other hand automatically identifies the X boundary and Y boundary of the region using an RC extraction tool as described above. In another example the user specifies an area in any one or more of the X Y and Z directions where RC extraction accuracy is preferred over efficiency and the semiconductor device design system automatically identifies one or more regions from the user specified area.

Parasitic parameters inside the region also referred to herein as first parasitic parameters are extracted using a parasitic parameter extraction tool methodology with higher accuracy than that used for extracting parasitic parameters outside the region . For example parasitic parameters inside the region are extracted by a 3D RC extraction methodology whereas parasitic parameters outside the region are extracted by a 2.5D or 2D RC extraction methodology which is less accurate than the 3D RC extraction methodology used inside the region . In the specific embodiment illustrated in parasitic parameters inside the region are extracted in various directions in the 3D space and between various electrical components and include but are not limited to the parasitic capacitances described with respect to . In some embodiments the extracted parasitic parameters inside the region include surface to surface capacitances edge to surface capacitances i.e. fringe capacitances and edge to edge capacitances i.e. edge capacitances . In some embodiments the parasitic parameters inside the region are extracted without fragmenting the electrical components within the region into a set of predefined or primitive patterns.

For illustrative purposes some parasitic capacitances among several electrical components inside the region are indicated at in . Specifically the parasitic capacitance is between the PO region and the wiring part in the layer MD1. The parasitic capacitance is between the wiring part in the layer MP and a portion of the via that is inside the region . The parasitic capacitance is between the OD region and the PO region . The parasitic capacitance is between the wiring part in the layer MD2 and the PO region . The parasitic capacitances are extracted in the arrow directions shown in .

Parasitic parameters outside the region also referred to herein as second parasitic parameters are extracted using a parasitic parameter extraction tool methodology with lower accuracy than that used for extracting parasitic parameters inside the region . For example parasitic parameters outside the region are extracted by a 1D 2D or 2.5D RC extraction methodology whereas parasitic parameters inside the region are extracted by a higher RC extraction methodology such as 2D 2.5D or 3D RC extraction methodology. In some embodiments the extracted parasitic parameters inside or outside the region include surface to surface capacitances edge to surface capacitances i.e. fringe capacitances and edge to edge capacitances i.e. edge capacitances .

For illustrative purposes some parasitic capacitances among several electrical components outside the region are indicated at in . Specifically the parasitic capacitances are between the metal parts of the M1 layer and the corresponding metal parts of the overlaying M2 layer that cross over the metal parts . The parasitic capacitances are also referred to as cross over capacitances. The parasitic capacitance is between the adjacent metal parts and in the same M1 layer and is referred to as a coupling capacitance. Cross over and coupling capacitances are extracted in a 2D RC extraction methodology in accordance with some embodiments. A 2.5D RC extraction methodology in accordance with some embodiments extracts parasitic capacitance covered by the 2D RC extraction methodology and also a few parasitic capacitances covered by a 3D RC extraction methodology. The parasitic capacitances are extracted in the arrow directions shown in .

In some embodiments the RC extraction inside the region is suitable for Mid End of Line MEOL technology whereas the RC extraction outside the region is suitable for Back End of Line BEOL technology.

Parasitic parameters between electrical components inside the region and electrical components outside the region also referred to herein as third parasitic parameters are also extracted in accordance with some embodiments. In one or more embodiments third parasitic parameters are extracted using a parasitic parameter extraction tool methodology with higher accuracy than that used for extracting second parasitic parameters outside the region . In one or more embodiments third parasitic parameters are extracted using the same parasitic parameter extraction tool methodology as that used for extracting second parasitic parameters outside the region . In one or more embodiments third parasitic parameters are extracted using a parasitic parameter extraction tool methodology with lower accuracy than that used for extracting first parasitic parameters inside the region . In one or more embodiments third parasitic parameters are extracted using the same parasitic parameter extraction tool methodology as that used for extracting first parasitic parameters inside the region .

For example second parasitic parameters outside the region third parasitic parameters between electrical components inside and outside the region and first parasitic parameters inside the region are extracted using the 2D 2.5D and 3D RC extraction methodologies. In another example second parasitic parameters are extracted using the 2D or 2.5D extraction methodology whereas third and first parasitic parameters are extracted by the same RC extraction methodology such as the 2.5D or 3D RC extraction methodology which is higher than the RC extraction methodology used for extracting second parasitic parameters.

For illustrative purposes some parasitic capacitances between electrical components inside the region and electrical components outside the region are indicated at and in . Specifically the parasitic capacitance is between the wiring part in the layer MD2 inside the region and the metal part in the M1 layer outside the region . The parasitic capacitance is between the wiring part in the layer MD2 inside the region and a portion of the PO region outside the region . The parasitic capacitances are extracted in the arrow directions shown in i.e. outward from inside the region . In some embodiments third parasitic parameters are extracted between electrical components of two regions in each of which RC extraction accuracy is preferred over efficiency. For example a region which is similar to the region and in which RC extraction accuracy is preferred over efficiency is also illustrated in . The region includes various electrical components similar to those of the region . Specifically the region includes wiring parts and PO regions corresponding to the wiring parts and the PO regions of the region . A third parasitic parameter Ca is extracted between the wiring part inside the region and the wiring part inside the region . Another third parasitic parameter Cb is extracted between the wiring part inside the region and a part of the PO region outside the region . A particular manner for extracting the parasitic parameters Ca Cb in accordance with some embodiments will be described herein with respect to .

In some embodiments the RC extractions inside and outside the region are performed separately. Particularly the RC extraction outside the region is performed while treating the region as a black box. More particularly electrical components as well as their interconnects and couplings inside the region are ignored by the RC extraction outside the region when the region is treated as a black box. The separately extracted parasitic parameters are then combined together e.g. into a netlist representing the layout of the semiconductor device . To preserve hierarchical connections between electrical components and or their couplings during RC extraction and netlist combination a plurality of pins are inserted before RC extraction and are used for combining the extracted parasitic parameters into the netlist.

For example as shown in to represent a connection between the wiring part in the layer MD2 and the metal part in the M1 layer by means of the via in the V0 layer a pair of pins O and P are inserted wherein the pin P is inside the region and is at the wiring part and the pin O is outside the region and is at the metal part . In another example a connection between a portion of the PO region inside the region and another portion of the same PO region outside the region is represented by a pair of pins O and P inserted at the boundary of the region with the pin P inside the region and the pin O outside the region . In a further example a connection between the PO region and a metal part in the M1 layer by means of a via in the V0 layer is represented by a pair of pins O and P wherein the pin P is inside the region and is at the PO region and the pin O is outside the region and is at the metal part . The inserted pins O O P P are used for the netlist combination in which the extracted parasitic parameters inside the region are coupled to corresponding extracted parasitic parameters outside the region via the connections O P O P O P.

In some embodiments one or more parasitic parameters are extracted multiple times and the extracted values of the one or more parasitic parameters are combined in the netlist combination process. An example is given in which is a schematic view of a portion of the layout of the semiconductor device where the parasitic capacitance Ca is to be extracted. The parasitic capacitance Ca is between the wiring part inside the region and the wiring part inside the region . In accordance with some embodiments a net is a set of one or more interconnected electrical components and is considered as an internal net when the net is fully covered by a region in which RC extraction accuracy is preferred over efficiency. Specifically the wiring part is an internal net because it is inside the region and the wiring part is also an internal net because it is inside the region . The parasitic capacitance Ca is a parasitic parameter between two internal nets of two regions . The parasitic capacitance Ca is extracted twice from within the region to the region with an extracted capacitance value C1 and from within the region to the region with an extracted capacitance value C2. The extracted capacitance values C1 and C2 are combined in the netlist combination process by e.g. calculating and accepting an average value of C1 and C2 as the extracted value of the parasitic capacitance Ca.

Parasitic capacitances between electrical components outside the regions or are extracted once as illustrated in at . RC extraction of a parasitic parameter either inside or outside the region more than twice is encompassed in some embodiments.

In some embodiments by combining the accuracy of a higher RC extraction methodology e.g. a 3D RC extraction methodology and the efficiency of a lower RC extraction methodology e.g. a 2D or 2.5D RC extraction methodology a mixed effective and accurate RC extraction methodology is obtained. Such a mixed RC extraction methodology is particularly suitable for RC extraction at advanced nodes. The mixed RC extraction methodology is further particularly suitable for devices with complex 3D structures such as FinFETs and planar MOSs with raised source drains. In some embodiments however the mixed RC extraction methodology is also suitable for other less advanced nodes and or devices with no or less complex 3D structures. In one or more embodiments a desirable accuracy is preserved by extracting parasitic parameters between electrical components inside a region and electrical components outside the region using a highly accurate RC extraction methodology e.g. a 3D RC extraction methodology . The mixed RC extraction methodology in some embodiments is also flexible and applicable to various semiconductor devices without being restricted by device hierarchy cell hierarchy or specifics of tools. In one or more embodiments the mixed RC extraction methodology is applicable to various extraction scenarios such as FinFET RC extraction fast device tuning extraction or interposer based design extraction.

In one or more embodiments the design system A is implemented by a computer system as described herein below with respect to . A processor of such a computer system is hardwired and or programmed to function as one or more of the tools of the design system A.

In one or more embodiments the design system A is implemented by several computer systems. A processor of each computer system is hardwired and or programmed to function as one or more of the tools of the design system A. For example the LVS extraction tool is implemented by one computer system whereas the outside RC extraction tool and inside RC extraction tool are implemented by another computer system. In another example the outside RC extraction tool and the inside RC extraction tool are implemented by different computer systems. In one or more embodiments data exchange between the computer systems occurs over a network that connects the computer systems. Other modes of data exchange such as emails external hard drives are usable in some embodiments.

In one or more embodiments a tool of the design system A e.g. the inside RC extraction tool is implemented by several processors and or computer systems. Other arrangements are usable in some embodiments.

In the design system A the layout is inputted into the LVS extraction tool which performs an LVS extraction on the layout and outputs a netlist as described with respect to . The netlist represents electrical components and connections therebetween as recognized by the LVS extraction tool . The block generation and pin insertion tool uses the netlist outputted by the LVS extraction tool to insert a plurality of pins to represent hierarchical connections between the recognized components and couplings as described with respect to . For example when the layout of the semiconductor device is inputted into the LVS extraction tool the LVS extraction tool recognizes various electrical components in the semiconductor device and outputs location information of the recognized electrical components. The block generation and pin insertion tool uses the location information to specify one or more regions as regions where RC extraction accuracy is preferred over efficiency. For example in one or more embodiments transistors and or active elements especially those with complex 3D structure are to be subject to an RC extraction methodology more accurate than that to be used for conductors and or passive elements. Therefore areas of transistors and or active elements in the layout are recognized by the LVS extraction tool and the block generation and pin insertion tool as the regions . The block generation and pin insertion tool also specifies a region which is outside the regions and in which RC extraction efficiency is preferred over accuracy. In some embodiments the regions are specified by a different tool that receives the netlist from the LVS extraction tool . In some embodiments the regions are specified automatically and or based on user input as described with respect to .

The block generation and pin insertion tool further inserts a pin for the region a pin for the region and pins for the region . The pins and indicate a connection between the region and the region . The pins and indicate a connection between the region and the region . The regions and the corresponding pins are included in the netlist outputted by the LVS extraction tool . The pins are used for a netlist combination process as described with respect to .

The netlist outputted from the block generation and pin insertion tool serves as input data for the outside RC extraction tool and the inside RC extraction tool . The outside RC extraction tool is configured to perform RC extraction of parasitic parameters among electrical components outside the regions using an RC extraction methodology with lower accuracy than that used by the inside RC extraction tool for extracting parasitic parameters among electrical components inside at least one of the regions as described with respect to . In some embodiments the RC extraction methodology used for extracting parasitic parameters inside the region is different from that used for extracting parasitic parameters inside the region . In some embodiments the outside RC extraction tool and inside RC extraction tool are implemented by a single RC extraction tool which uses different RC extraction methodologies for extracting parasitic parameters inside the regions and outside the regions . In some embodiments more than two RC extraction tools are used to extract parasitic parameters inside and outside different regions .

In some embodiments parasitic parameters between electrical components inside the region and electrical components outside the region are also extracted by the inside RC extraction tool or a different RC extraction tool using the same or a lower RC extraction methodology used for extracting parasitic parameters inside the region as described with respect to . Similarly parasitic parameters between electrical components inside the region and electrical components outside the region are also extracted for example by the same or a lower RC extraction methodology used for extracting parasitic parameters inside the region . In some embodiments a parasitic parameter between an electrical component inside the region and an electrical component inside the region which is considered to be outside the region is extracted by the RC extraction methodology used for extracting parasitic parameters inside the region and or region . In one or more embodiments the parasitic parameter between an electrical component inside the region and an electrical component inside the region is extracted twice and the extracted values are combined as described with respect to .

The parasitic parameters extracted from the region are Ci Ri the parasitic parameters extracted from the region are Ci Ri and the parasitic parameters extracted from outside the regions are Co Ro. The extracted parasitic parameters are sent to obtained by the netlist generator tool to be combined into the netlist presenting the layout of the semiconductor device . The pins are used for the netlist combination as described with respect to A and B. For example the pins associated with the region and region are combined together at in a combined netlist to connect the regions with the extracted parasitic parameters Ci Ri Co Ro. Similarly the pins associated with the region and region are combined together at in the combined netlist to connect the corresponding regions with the extracted parasitic parameters Ci Ri Ci Ri.

In some embodiments a netlist reduction process is performed by the RC extraction tools and or by the netlist generator tool .

The combined netlist and or portions thereof are used in the post layout simulation to check whether the semiconductor device meets a certain specification as described with respect to .

At operation a layout of a semiconductor device having a plurality of electrical components is received by a semiconductor device design system. For example a layout of a semiconductor device having a plurality of electrical components is received by a semiconductor device design system A B or C.

At operation first parasitic parameters between the electrical components inside a region of the layout are extracted using a first tool. For example first parasitic parameters between the electrical components inside a region of the layout are extracted using an inside RC extraction tool that performs a highly accurate RC extraction methodology such as a 3D RC extraction methodology.

At operation second parasitic parameters between the electrical components outside the region of the layout are extracted using a second tool different from the first tool. For example second parasitic parameters between the electrical components outside the region of the layout are extracted using an outside RC extraction tool that performs a less accurate but faster RC extraction methodology such as a 2D or 2.5D RC extraction methodology.

At operation the extracted first and second parasitic parameters are incorporated into the layout. For example the extracted first and second parasitic parameters are incorporated e.g. by a netlist generator tool into the layout to obtain a combined or modified layout .

The memory comprises in some embodiments a random access memory RAM and or other dynamic storage device and or read only memory ROM and or other static storage device coupled to the bus for storing data and or instructions to be executed by the processor e.g. kernel userspace portions of the kernel and or the userspace and components thereof. The memory is also used in some embodiments for storing temporary variables or other intermediate information during execution of instructions to be executed by the processor .

In some embodiments a storage device such as a magnetic disk or optical disk is coupled to the bus for storing data and or instructions e.g. kernel userspace etc. The I O device comprises an input device an output device and or a combined input output device for enabling user interaction with the system . An input device comprises for example a keyboard keypad mouse trackball trackpad and or cursor direction keys for communicating information and commands to the processor . An output device comprises for example a display a printer a voice synthesizer etc. for communicating information to a user.

In some embodiments one or more operations and or functionality of the tools and or systems described with respect to are realized by the processor which is programmed for performing such operations and or functionality. One or more of the memory the OF the storage the I O device the hardware components and the bus is are operable to receive instructions data design rules netlists layouts models and or other parameters for processing by the processor .

In some embodiments one or more of the operations and or functionality of the tools and or systems described with respect to is are implemented by specifically configured hardware e.g. by one or more application specific integrated circuits ASICs which is are included separate from or in lieu of the processor . Some embodiments incorporate more than one of the described operations and or functionality in a single ASIC.

In some embodiments the operations and or functionality are realized as functions of a program stored in a non transitory computer readable recording medium. Examples of a non transitory computer readable recording medium include but are not limited to external removable and or internal built in storage or memory unit e.g. one or more of an optical disk such as a DVD a magnetic disk such as a hard disk a semiconductor memory such as a ROM a RAM a memory card and the like.

The above methods include example operations but they are not necessarily required to be performed in the order shown. Operations may be added replaced changed order and or eliminated as appropriate in accordance with the spirit and scope of embodiments of the disclosure. Embodiments that combine different features and or different embodiments are within the scope of the disclosure and will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art after reviewing this disclosure.

An aspect of this description relates to a method of generating a netlist. The method comprises A method of generating a netlist comprises detecting electrical components included in a layout of a semiconductor device. The method further comprises establishing a defined region having a boundary surrounding a first set of electrical components based on a type of at least one electrical component included in the first set of electrical components. The method further comprises extracting a first capacitance value between the electrical components of the first set of electrical components positioned inside the defined region the first capacitance value being extracted using a first extraction technique. The method additionally comprises extracting a second capacitance value between the electrical components of a second set of electrical components the second set of electrical components comprising at least one electrical component positioned outside the defined region the second capacitance value being extracted using a second extraction technique different from the first extraction technique. The method also comprises generating the netlist the netlist including the first capacitance value and the second capacitance value. The first extraction technique is capable of extracting one or more capacitance values between electrical components arranged in a first quantity of directions with respect to one another and the second extraction technique is capable of extracting one or more capacitance values between electrical components arranged in a second quantity of directions with respect to one another. The first quantity of directions is greater than the second quantity of directions.

Another aspect of this description relates to a method of generating a netlist. The method comprises generating a boundary of a defined region surrounding a first set of electrical component of a plurality of electrical components included in a layout of a semiconductor device the boundary of the defined region being based on a user input. The method also comprises extracting a first capacitance value between the electrical components of the first set of electrical components positioned inside the defined region the first capacitance value being extracted using a first extraction method. The method further comprises extracting a second capacitance value between the electrical components of a second set of electrical components the second set of electrical components comprising at least one electrical component positioned outside the defined region the second capacitance value being extracted using a second extraction method different from the first extraction method. The method additionally comprises generating the netlist the netlist including the first capacitance value and the second capacitance value. The first extraction method is capable of extracting one or more capacitance values between electrical components arranged in a first quantity of directions with respect to one another and the second extraction method is capable of extracting one or more capacitance values between electrical components arranged in a second quantity of directions with respect to one another. The first quantity of directions is greater than the second quantity of directions.

A further aspect of this description relates to a method of generating a netlist. The method comprises detecting one or more types of electrical components included in a layout of a semiconductor device. The method also comprises establishing a first defined region having a first boundary surrounding a first set of electrical components based on a first type of at least one electrical component included in the first set of electrical components. The method further comprises establishing a second defined region having a second boundary surrounding a second set of electrical components based on a second type of at least one electrical component included in the second set of electrical components. The method further comprises establishing a third defined region having a third boundary surrounding a third set of electrical components based on a location of at least one electrical component included in the third set of electrical components. The method additionally comprises extracting a first capacitance value between the electrical components of the first set of electrical components positioned inside the first defined region the first capacitance value being extracted using a first extraction technique. The method also comprises extracting a second capacitance value between the electrical components of the second set of electrical components inside the second defined region the second capacitance value being extracted using a second extraction technique different from the first extraction technique. The method further comprises extracting a third capacitance value between the electrical components of the third set of electrical components inside the third defined region the third capacitance value being extracted using a third extraction technique different from the first extraction technique and different from the second extraction technique. The method also comprises generating the netlist the netlist including the first capacitance value and the second capacitance value. The first extraction technique is capable of extracting one or more capacitance values between electrical components arranged in a first quantity of directions with respect to one another and the second extraction technique is capable of extracting one or more capacitance values between electrical components arranged in a second quantity of directions with respect to one another. The first quantity of directions is greater than the second quantity of directions.

It will be readily seen by one of ordinary skill in the art that one or more of the disclosed embodiments fulfill one or more of the advantages set forth above. After reading the foregoing specification one of ordinary skill will be able to affect various changes substitutions of equivalents and various other embodiments as broadly disclosed herein. It is therefore intended that the protection granted hereon be limited only by the definition contained in the appended claims and equivalents thereof.

