---

title: Doorbell chime systems and methods
abstract: Doorbell systems can include a doorbell and a chime. In some embodiments, the chime can be communicatively coupled to a wireless network of a building, to the doorbell, and to a remote computing device. In several embodiments, the chime facilitates communication with at least one of the doorbell, the remote computing device, and a remote sensor.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09160987&OS=09160987&RS=09160987
owner: SkyBell Technologies, Inc.
number: 09160987
owner_city: Irvine
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150611
---
This application claims the benefit of and is a continuation in part of U.S. Nonprovisional patent application Ser. No. 14 724 723 filed May 28 2015 and entitled DOORBELL CHIME SYSTEMS AND METHODS. The entire contents of patent application Ser. No. 14 724 723 are incorporated by reference herein.

This application claims the benefit of and is a continuation in part of U.S. Nonprovisional patent application Ser. No. 14 724 702 filed May 28 2015 and entitled DOORBELL CHIME SYSTEMS AND METHODS. The entire contents of patent application Ser. No. 14 724 702 are incorporated by reference herein.

This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 62 161 616 filed May 14 2015 and entitled DOORBELL CHIME SYSTEMS AND METHODS. The entire contents of Patent Application No. 62 161 616 are incorporated by reference herein.

This application claims the benefit of and is a continuation in part of U.S. Nonprovisional patent application Ser. No. 14 695 436 filed Apr. 24 2015 and entitled DOORBELL COMMUNICATION SYSTEMS AND METHODS. The entire contents of patent application Ser. No. 14 695 436 are incorporated by reference herein.

This application claims the benefit of and is a continuation in part of U.S. Nonprovisional patent application Ser. No. 14 684 302 filed Apr. 10 2015 and entitled DOORBELL COMMUNICATION SYSTEMS AND METHODS. The entire contents of patent application Ser. No. 14 684 302 are incorporated by reference herein.

The entire contents of the following application are incorporated by reference herein U.S. Nonprovisional patent application Ser. No. 14 726 517 filed May 30 2015 and entitled DOORBELL COMMUNICATION SYSTEMS AND METHODS.

The entire contents of the following application are incorporated by reference herein U.S. Nonprovisional patent application Ser. No. 14 664 345 filed Mar. 20 2015 and entitled DOORBELL COMMUNICATION SYSTEMS AND METHODS.

The entire contents of the following application are incorporated by reference herein U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 62 127 660 filed Mar. 3 2015 and entitled DOORBELL COMMUNICATION SYSTEMS AND METHODS.

The entire contents of the following application are incorporated by reference herein U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 62 135 133 filed Mar. 18 2015 and entitled DOORBELL COMMUNICATION SYSTEMS AND METHODS.

The entire contents of the following application are incorporated by reference herein U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 62 016 050 filed Jun. 23 2014 and entitled IDENTITY VERIFICATION USING A SOCIAL NETWORK.

The entire contents of the following application are incorporated by reference herein U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 62 016 053 filed Jun. 23 2014 and entitled IDENTITY VERIFICATION USING A SOCIAL NETWORK AND A NAME OF A VISITOR.

The entire contents of the following application are incorporated by reference herein U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 62 016 057 filed Jun. 23 2014 and entitled IDENTITY VERIFICATION OF FREQUENT AND NON FREQUENT VISITORS.

The entire contents of the following application are incorporated by reference herein U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 62 158 750 filed May 8 2015 and entitled DOORBELL COMMUNICATION SYSTEMS AND METHODS.

The entire contents of the following application are incorporated by reference herein U.S. Nonprovisional patent application Ser. No. 14 612 376 filed Feb. 3 2015 and entitled DOORBELL COMMUNICATION SYSTEMS AND METHODS.

U.S. Nonprovisional patent application Ser. No. 14 612 376 is a continuation in part of U.S. Nonprovisional patent application Ser. No. 14 589 830 filed Jan. 5 2015 and entitled DOORBELL COMMUNICATION SYSTEMS AND METHODS. The entire contents of patent application Ser. No. 14 589 830 are incorporated by reference herein.

U.S. Nonprovisional patent application Ser. No. 14 589 830 is a continuation in part of U.S. Nonprovisional patent application Ser. No. 14 502 601 filed Sep. 30 2014 and entitled DOORBELL COMMUNICATION SYSTEMS AND METHODS. The entire contents of patent application Ser. No. 14 502 601 are incorporated by reference herein.

U.S. Nonprovisional patent application Ser. No. 14 502 601 is a continuation in part of U.S. Nonprovisional patent application Ser. No. 14 492 809 filed Sep. 22 2014 and entitled DOORBELL COMMUNICATION SYSTEMS AND METHODS which claims the benefit of and is a continuation in part of U.S. Nonprovisional patent application Ser. No. 14 275 811 filed May 12 2014 and entitled DOORBELL COMMUNICATION SYSTEMS AND METHODS now U.S. Pat. No. 8 872 915 which claims the benefit of and is a continuation in part of U.S. Nonprovisional patent application Ser. No. 14 142 839 filed Dec. 28 2013 and entitled DOORBELL COMMUNICATION SYSTEMS AND METHODS now U.S. Pat. No. 8 842 180 which claims the benefit of and is a continuation in part of U.S. Nonprovisional patent application Ser. No. 14 099 888 filed Dec. 6 2013 and entitled DOORBELL COMMUNICATION SYSTEMS AND METHODS now U.S. Pat. No. 8 823 795 which claims the benefit of and is a continuation of U.S. Nonprovisional patent application Ser. No. 14 098 772 filed Dec. 6 2013 and entitled DOORBELL COMMUNICATION SYSTEMS AND METHODS now U.S. Pat. No. 8 780 201 which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 872 439 filed Aug. 30 2013 and entitled DOORBELL COMMUNICATION SYSTEMS AND METHODS and also claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 859 070 filed Jul. 26 2013 and entitled DOORBELL COMMUNICATION SYSTEMS AND METHODS. The entire contents of patent application Ser. No. 14 492 809 U.S. Pat. No. 8 872 915 U.S. Pat. No. 8 842 180 U.S. Pat. No. 8 823 795 U.S. Pat. No. 8 780 201 Patent Application No. 61 872 439 and Patent Application No. 61 859 070 are incorporated by reference herein.

The entire contents of the following application are incorporated herein by reference International Application No. PCT US14 53506 filed Aug. 29 2014 with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office and entitled DOORBELL COMMUNICATION SYSTEMS AND METHODS.

The entire contents of the following application are incorporated herein by reference International Application No. PCT US14 47622 filed Jul. 22 2014 with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office and entitled DOORBELL COMMUNICATION SYSTEMS AND METHODS.

Various embodiments disclosed herein relate to doorbells. Certain embodiments relate to communication between a person near a doorbell and a person in another location.

Homes offices and other buildings sometimes include communication and surveillance systems to enable friendly visitors to summon occupants of the buildings and to deter unwanted visitors. Communication and surveillance systems can include video cameras and doorbells.

Doorbells can enable a person located outside of an entry point such as a door to alert a person inside of an entry point that someone outside would like to talk to someone inside. Doorbells sometimes include a button located near a door such as a front door side door or back door of a home office dwelling warehouse building or structure. Doorbells are sometimes used near a gate or some other entrance to a partially enclosed area. Pushing the doorbell sometimes causes a chime or other alerting sound to be emitted. In some cases this alerting sound can typically be heard within a short distance from the entry point or sound source. For example a homeowner located remotely from her home likely would not be able to hear the alerting sound and thus would not be aware that someone is ringing her doorbell. Thus there is a need for devices and methods to alert remotely located individuals that someone seeks the attention of the homeowner tenant building guardian or steward.

This disclosure includes a method of using a doorbell system to emit a sound from a chime. Methods can comprise selecting the sound by a remote computing device sending a data file comprising information to a doorbell that is communicatively coupled to the remote computing device wherein the information represents the sound and sending the data file by the doorbell to the chime that is communicatively coupled to the doorbell and remotely located with respect to the doorbell.

Methods can include downloading by at least one of the doorbell and the chime the data file from a web server. The method can further include downloading by the remote computing device the data file from a web server.

As well methods can comprise emitting the sound from a speaker of the chime at least partially in response to the chime receiving the data file and at least partially in response to the doorbell detecting an indication of a presence of a visitor. Even still methods can include receiving by the doorbell a sound emission parameter from the remote computing device and emitting the sound from a speaker of the chime in response to the doorbell system determining that the sound emission parameter has been met.

Methods can include emitting an audible message from a speaker of the chime wherein the audible message is spoken by a user and recorded by the doorbell. As well methods can include emitting an audible message from a speaker of the chime wherein the audible message is spoken by a user and recorded by the remote computing device.

In embodiments the chime can be located along an inside portion of a building. Accordingly methods can include detecting a first motion by a motion detector of the chime within the inside portion of the building and initiating a first communication session with the remote computing device in response to the chime detecting the first motion wherein the first communication session comprises a first notification of the first motion detected by the motion detector of the chime. In embodiments the remote computing device is a first remote computing device. Methods can further include detecting a second motion by the motion detector of the chime within an inside portion of the building wherein the second motion is different from the first motion and initiating a second communication session with a second remote computing device in response to the motion detector of the chime detecting the second motion wherein the second communication session comprises a second notification of the second motion detected by the chime and wherein the first remote computing device does not receive the second communication session.

As well methods can include selecting a second sound by the remote computing device sending a second data file comprising second information to the doorbell wherein the second information represents the second sound and sending the second data file to the chime. The chime can be located along an inside portion of a building and the doorbell can be located along an outside portion of the building. Accordingly methods can further include detecting a first motion by a motion detector of the doorbell along the outside portion of the building emitting the first sound from a speaker of the chime in response to the doorbell detecting the first motion detecting a second motion by the motion detector of the doorbell along the outside portion of the building wherein the second motion is different from the first motion and emitting the second sound from the speaker of the chime in response to the doorbell detecting the second motion.

The disclosure also includes a method of using a doorbell system to emit a sound from a chime. Methods can include selecting the sound by a remote computing device sending a data file comprising information to the chime that is communicatively coupled to the remote computing device wherein the chime is located within an inside portion of a building and wherein the information represents the sound detecting an indication of a presence of a visitor with a doorbell that is communicatively coupled to the chime wherein the doorbell is located along an outside portion of the building and wherein the doorbell comprises a button configurable to detect a button press to indicate the presence of the visitor and emitting the sound from a speaker of the chime in response to detecting the indication of the presence of the visitor.

As well methods can include detecting a motion by a motion detector of the chime within the inside portion of the building capturing an image by a camera of the chime within the inside portion of the building and sending the image to the remote computing device. Even still methods can include detecting a motion by a motion detector of the chime within the inside portion of the building and flashing a light of the doorbell in response to the chime detecting the motion within the inside portion of the building.

Methods can also include recording a noise by a microphone of the chime within the inside portion of the building and emitting the noise from a speaker of the remote computing device. As well methods can include detecting a motion by a motion detector of the chime within the inside portion of the building and initiating a communication session with the remote computing device in response to the motion detector of the chime detecting the motion wherein the communication session comprises a notification of the motion detected by motion detector of the chime.

Even still methods can include sending the data file comprising the information to the doorbell and detecting a motion by a motion detector of the chime within the inside portion of the building. Methods can also include emitting the sound from a speaker of the doorbell in response to the chime detecting the motion within the inside portion of the building.

The disclosure also includes a doorbell system comprising a doorbell comprising a button configurable to detect a button press to indicate a presence of a visitor a chime communicatively coupled to the doorbell a remote computing device communicatively coupled to at least one of the doorbell and the chime and a sound emitted by a speaker of the chime in response to the doorbell detecting an indication of a presence of a visitor. Embodiments of the chime can comprise a motion detector configurable to detect motion along an inside portion of a building a camera assembly configurable to capture an image along the inside portion of the building the speaker configurable to emit the first sound and a microphone configurable to receive an audible message spoken by a user along the inside portion of the building.

Embodiments of the chime can comprise a thermometer configurable to determine temperature along the inside portion of the building and a humidity sensor configurable to determine humidity along the inside portion of the building. As well embodiments can include a communication system configurable to communicatively couple the chime to the doorbell.

The sound can be a first sound. The doorbell system can further include a second sound emitted by the speaker of the chime in response to the motion detector detecting the motion along the inside portion of the building. As well embodiments of the doorbell system can include a third sound emitted by the speaker of the chime in response to the thermometer detecting that a predetermined temperature has been met and a fourth sound emitted by the speaker of the chime in response to the humidity sensor detecting that a predetermined humidity has been met.

The disclosure can include a method of using a doorbell system to emit a first sound from a chime. Methods can include recognizing by a doorbell a first visitor emitting the first sound from the chime in response to recognizing the first visitor and emitting a second sound from the chime in response to not recognizing by the doorbell a second visitor wherein the first sound and the second sound are different.

Methods can include selecting by the remote computing device the first sound and the second sound and sending the first sound and the second sound to the chime. As well methods can include selecting by the remote computing device the first sound and the second sound and sending the first sound and the second sound to the doorbell and then sending the first sound and the second sound from the doorbell to the chime.

Even still methods can include sending the first sound and the second sound from the doorbell to the chime via wireless communication. Methods can also include sending the first sound and the second sound from the doorbell to the chime via an electrical wire that electrically couples the doorbell and the chime while the doorbell is located outside a building and the chime is located inside the building.

As well methods can include recognizing the first visitor by the doorbell detecting a physical trait of the first visitor. Methods can also include recognizing the first visitor by the doorbell detecting a trait of an electronic device in the possession of the first visitor.

This disclosure includes a doorbell system configured to be electrically coupled to a doorbell power supply of a building. The doorbell system can comprise a doorbell comprising a button configurable to sound a chime wherein a first wire electrically couples the doorbell to the power supply the chime electrically coupled to the doorbell by a second wire and a third wire that electrically couples the chime to the power supply to form a circuit comprising the first wire the doorbell the second wire the chime the third wire and the power supply.

The doorbell can be communicatively coupled to the chime via the second wire such that the chime is configured to receive a first data file from the doorbell via the second wire. Doorbell systems can further include a sound file communication sent from the doorbell to the chime via the second wire. In embodiments the sound file communication can comprise at least one thousand bytes.

In embodiments the first data file comprises a command configured to place the chime in silent mode. In some embodiments the first data file comprises a command configured to adjust a volume setting of the chime. As well in some embodiments the first data file comprises a command configured to adjust a duration of a notification sound emitted by the chime. Furthermore in some embodiments the first data file comprises a video recorded by the doorbell. Even still in embodiments the first data file comprises a video recorded by the chime. In embodiments the first data file comprises information regarding an event that occurred outside of the chime. Accordingly in embodiments the first data file comprises information regarding a person detected by the chime.

As well in embodiments the doorbell is located outside of the building and the chime is located inside of the building. Even still in embodiments the doorbell is communicatively coupled to the chime via the second wire such that the doorbell is configured to receive a first data file from the chime via the second wire.

Even still in embodiments the doorbell system can include a remote computing device communicatively coupled with the doorbell via a wireless communication wherein the wireless communication comprises a first information regarding a notification sound a wired communication sent from the doorbell to the chime via the second wire wherein the wired communication comprises a second information regarding the notification sound and the notification sound emitted from a speaker of the chime. Yet in embodiments the doorbell can include a first camera a first speaker and a first microphone. The chime can comprise a second camera a second speaker and a second microphone.

The disclosure also includes a method of using a doorbell system configured to be electrically coupled to a doorbell power supply of a building. Methods can include coupling a doorbell to a remote chime via a first wire receiving by the doorbell a first data file comprising information and sending a second data file comprising the information from the doorbell to the remote chime via the first wire.

The information can represent a sound that was unknown to the chime prior to receiving the second data file. Methods can further include emitting the sound from the chime at least partially in response to receiving the second data file.

As well methods can include emitting the sound from the chime at least partially in response to the chime receiving a sound emission parameter from the doorbell. Methods can also include the doorbell receiving a sound emission parameter from a remote computing device and emitting the sound from the chime in response to the doorbell system determining that the sound emission parameter has been met.

Even still methods can include the doorbell receiving the first data file from a remote computing device. Furthermore methods can include the doorbell receiving a video recorded by the chime via the first wire. As well methods can include the chime receiving a video recorded by the doorbell via the first wire. The second data file can comprise at least one thousand bytes. Methods can include the chime using the second data file to emit a sound.

This disclosure includes a method for emitting a custom message with a doorbell system wherein the doorbell system comprises a doorbell having a speaker. The may method comprise receiving a custom message with the doorbell system and detecting by the doorbell an indication of a presence of a visitor and then in response to detecting the indication of the presence of the visitor emitting the custom message with the speaker.

The visitor may be a predetermined visitor and the method may further comprise assigning by the doorbell system the custom message to the predetermined visitor.

Methods may include determining by the doorbell system that the visitor is a predetermined visitor type and selecting the custom message from a first message and a second message in response to determining that the visitor is the predetermined visitor type. As well methods may include downloading the custom message from a smart phone that is communicatively coupled to the doorbell system.

The doorbell system may further comprise a remote computing device and methods may further comprise recording the custom message with the remote computing device.

The doorbell may further comprise a microphone and a button and methods may further comprise receiving an indication of a button press of the button and then in response to receiving the button press recording the custom message with the microphone.

The doorbell system may be operated by a homeowner and the visitor may be included on a contact list of the homeowner and wherein the custom message may comprise a name of the visitor.

The doorbell may comprise a microphone and wherein the custom message may comprise a question. Methods may further comprise receiving by the microphone an audible response to the question as spoken by the visitor.

Methods may further comprise determining by the doorbell system whether the audible response spoken by the visitor comprises a first meaning or a second meaning that is different from the first meaning in response to determining that the audible response spoken by the visitor comprises the first meaning emitting a first response message with the speaker and in response to determining that the audible response spoken by the visitor comprises the second meaning emitting a second response message with the speaker wherein the second response message is different from the first response message.

The visitor may comprise a criminal and the custom message may comprise a warning message. Methods may further comprise initiating by the doorbell system a communication session with a law enforcement agency.

Methods may include initiating by the doorbell system a communication session with a remote computing device of the visitor wherein the communication session comprises a written message that substantially matches a content of the custom message.

The disclosure also includes a method for emitting a custom message with a doorbell system wherein the doorbell system comprises a doorbell having a speaker. The method may comprise detecting by the doorbell an indication of a presence of a visitor and determining by the doorbell system an occurrence of a predetermined condition and then in response to detecting the indication of the presence of the visitor and determining the occurrence of the predetermined condition emitting the custom message with the speaker. Methods may also include recording the custom message with the doorbell system.

The custom message may be a first custom message and the doorbell may be attached to a building that is occupied by a resident. As well determining by the doorbell system the occurrence of the predetermined condition may comprise determining whether the resident is located within the building or whether the resident is not located within the building. Methods may further comprise recording a second custom message with the doorbell system wherein the second custom message is different from the first custom message in response to both detecting the indication of the presence of the visitor and determining the resident is present within the building emitting the first custom message with the speaker and in response to both detecting the indication of the presence of the visitor and determining the resident is not present within the building emitting the second custom message with the speaker.

The doorbell system may further comprise a remote computing device. Methods may further include recording the custom message with the remote computing device. The doorbell may comprise a microphone and methods may further comprise recording the custom message with the microphone.

The doorbell may further comprise a button. As well methods may further comprise receiving an indication of a first button press of the button and then in response to receiving the first button press recording the custom message with the doorbell system and thereby storing the custom message within memory of the doorbell system and receiving an indication of a second button press of the button and then in response to receiving the second button press erasing the custom message from the memory of the doorbell system.

The predetermined condition may comprise at least one of a predetermined timeframe and a predetermined time of day. The doorbell may be attached to a building occupied by a resident. The predetermined timeframe may comprise a time during which the resident is hosting a party within the building. As well the custom message may comprise a welcome message to the party.

The custom message can be a second custom message and the doorbell can comprise a microphone. Methods can further comprise recording a first custom message with the microphone wherein the first custom message can be spoken by a first voice wherein the second custom message emitted by the speaker can be spoken by a second voice and wherein a content of the first custom message substantially matches a content of the second custom message.

Methods can further include taking by the doorbell a picture of the visitor wherein determining the occurrence of the predetermined condition can comprise determining based on the picture that the visitor is included in a database of suspicious visitors that previously visited other doorbells.

Methods can further include creating a schedule of a first timeframe to emit a first sound a second timeframe to emit a second sound and a third timeframe to emit a third sound wherein determining the occurrence of the predetermined condition can comprise determining that a visitation time of the visitor is within the first timeframe and emitting the custom message comprises emitting the first sound in response to determining that the visitation time of the visitor is within the first timeframe.

The disclosure also includes a doorbell system comprising a doorbell including a button a speaker and a microphone wherein the doorbell is configurable to attach to an exterior of a building and wherein the button is configurable to receive a first button press and a second button press and a custom audible message received by the microphone in response to the first button press wherein the custom audible message is then emitted by the speaker in response to the second button press.

The custom audible message may comprise a name of a select visitor and the custom audible message may be emitted by the speaker in response to both the second button press and the doorbell detecting an indication of a presence of the select visitor.

Doorbell systems may further comprise a predetermined audible message emitted by the speaker in response to the first button press. The custom audible message may be received by the microphone in response to the first button press and after the predetermined audible message is emitted by the speaker.

The first button press may comprise two button presses and the second button press may comprise one button press. The first button press may comprise the button being pressed for a first duration and the second button press may comprise the button being pressed for a second duration. The first duration may be greater than the second duration.

The doorbell may further comprise a memory communicatively coupled to the microphone and speaker wherein the memory may be configurable to store the custom audible message and the predetermined audible message.

The disclosure also include a doorbell system comprising a doorbell including a button a speaker and a microphone wherein the doorbell is configurable to attach to an exterior of a building a first custom audible message emitted by the speaker in response to the doorbell detecting an indication of a presence of a first visitor and a second custom audible message emitted by the speaker in response to the doorbell detecting an indication of a presence of a second visitor.

The doorbell system may be communicatively coupled to a second doorbell system attached to an exterior of a second building that is remotely located with respect to the first building. As well detecting the indication of the presence of the first visitor may comprise the doorbell system receiving a first notification from the second doorbell system and detecting the indication of the presence of the second visitor may comprise the doorbell system receiving a second notification from the second doorbell system.

The first custom audible message may comprise a first name of the first visitor. The second visitor may be a solicitor and the second custom audible message may comprise an apology and a message that a resident of the building does not patronize solicitors.

Doorbell systems may comprise a wireless communication system communicatively coupled to the doorbell wherein the wireless communication system is configurable to retrieve data from a remote computer a third custom audible message emitted by the speaker in response to the doorbell detecting an indication of a presence of a third visitor wherein the third custom audible message comprises a first name of the third visitor and a camera coupled to the doorbell wherein the camera is configurable to capture a facial image of the third visitor wherein the first name of the third visitor is thereby determined through the wireless communication system communicating with the remote computer to match facial recognition data from the facial image of the third visitor as captured by the camera with facial recognition data from a facial image of the third visitor from an online social network.

Detecting the indication of the presence of the first visitor may comprise determining an identity of the first visitor and wherein detecting the indication of the presence of the second visitor may comprise determining an identity of the second visitor. Doorbell systems may further comprise a remote computing device communicatively coupled to the doorbell and a text message received by the remote computing device wherein the text message comprises at least one of the identity of the first visitor and the identity of the second visitor.

This disclosure also includes a method of using a doorbell system comprising a doorbell and a chime wherein the doorbell system is configured to be coupled to a building. Methods can include coupling communicatively the chime to a wireless network of the building to the doorbell and to a remote computing device and detecting by the doorbell a trigger of a button of the doorbell.

Methods can include sending a visitor alert from the doorbell to the chime and then sending the visitor alert from the chime to the remote computing device such that the chime communicatively couples the doorbell to the remote computing device. In embodiments the visitor alert comprises a video. Accordingly methods can further include the doorbell taking the video.

As well methods can include sending the visitor alert from the doorbell to the chime while the doorbell is located outside of the building and while the chime is located inside of the building. Methods can also include sending the visitor alert from the chime to the remote computing device via the wireless network of the building.

Even still methods can include sending the visitor alert from the chime to the remote computing device in response to the doorbell system detecting that the doorbell comprises inadequate wireless performance to send the visitor alert to the remote computing device via at least one of the wireless network and a cellular network. Methods can also include sending the visitor alert from the chime to the remote computing device in response to the doorbell system detecting that a wireless signal of the doorbell is below a threshold.

In embodiments a wire communicatively couples the doorbell to the chime. Methods can also include taking a video by the doorbell and then sending the video to the chime via the wire. As well methods can include sending the video from the chime to the remote computing device via the wireless network of the building. Even still methods may include sending the video from the chime to the remote computing device while the doorbell is located outside of the building and while the chime is located inside of the building.

Methods can include coupling communicatively the chime to a doorlock via the wireless network of the building. As well methods can include coupling communicatively the chime to a remote sensor via the wireless network of the building. The remote sensor can thereby comprise at least one of a fire alarm a smoke alarm a carbon monoxide detector and a burglar alarm.

Even still methods can include detecting an adverse event with the chime wherein the adverse event comprises at least one of a motion breaking glass fire a fire alarm sound and smoke. As well methods can include sending an adverse event alert to the remote computing device in response to detecting the adverse event wherein the adverse event alert comprises a notification of the adverse event.

The disclosure includes a doorbell system including a chime a remote computing device communicatively coupled to the chime and a doorbell communicatively coupled with the remote computing device via the chime. In embodiments the chime can be plugged into a power outlet of a building.

Doorbell systems can include a first communication from the doorbell to the chime. The first communication can comprise a video taken by a camera of the doorbell. As well doorbell systems can include a second communication from the chime to the remote computing device. The second communication can comprise the video. As well in embodiments the remote computing device can comprise a display configurable to display the video.

The doorbell system can also include a sound emitted by a speaker of the chime in response to the doorbell detecting an indication of a presence of a visitor. The chime can also comprise a speaker configurable to play a sound file from the remote computing device. As well the chime can comprise a light configurable to illuminate.

In embodiments the chime can include a motion detector a camera assembly and a microphone configurable to receive an audible message spoken by a user. Even still in embodiments the chime can include a thermometer a humidity sensor and a communication system configurable to communicatively couple the chime to at least one of the doorbell and the remote computing device.

The embodiments described above include many optional features and aspects. Features and aspects of the embodiments can be combined.

Although certain embodiments and examples are disclosed below inventive subject matter extends beyond the specifically disclosed embodiments to other alternative embodiments and or uses and to modifications and equivalents thereof. Thus the scope of the claims appended hereto is not limited by any of the particular embodiments described below. For example in any method or process disclosed herein the acts or operations of the method or process may be performed in any suitable sequence and are not necessarily limited to any particular disclosed sequence. Various operations may be described as multiple discrete operations in turn in a manner that may be helpful in understanding certain embodiments however the order of description should not be construed to imply that these operations are order dependent. Additionally the structures systems and or devices described herein may be embodied as integrated components or as separate components.

For purposes of comparing various embodiments certain aspects and advantages of these embodiments are described. Not necessarily all such aspects or advantages are achieved by any particular embodiment. Thus for example various embodiments may be carried out in a manner that achieves or optimizes one advantage or group of advantages as taught herein without necessarily achieving other aspects or advantages as may also be taught or suggested herein.

The following patent is incorporated herein by reference U.S. Pat. No. 7 583 191 entitled SECURITY SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR USE OF SAME and filed Nov. 14 2006.

Communication systems can provide a secure and convenient way for a remotely located individual to communicate with a person who is approaching a sensor such as a proximity sensor or motion sensor or with a person who rings a doorbell which can be located in a doorway near an entrance or within 15 feet of a door. Some communication systems allow an individual to hear see and talk with visitors who approach at least a portion of the communication system and or press a button such as a doorbell s button. For example communication systems can use a computing device to enable a remotely located person to see hear and or talk with visitors. Computing devices can include computers laptops tablets mobile devices smartphones cellular phones and wireless devices e.g. cars with wireless communication . Example computing devices include the iPhone iPad iMac MacBook Air and MacBook Pro made by Apple Inc. Communication between a remotely located person and a visitor can occur via the Internet cellular networks telecommunication networks and wireless networks.

The security system can include a diagnostic light and a power indicator light . In some embodiments the diagnostic light is a first color e.g. blue if the security system and or the communication system is connected to a wireless Internet network and is a second color e.g. red if the security system and or the communication system is not connected to a wireless Internet network. In some embodiments the power indicator is a first color if the security system is connected to a power source. The power source can be power supplied by the building to which the security system is attached. In some embodiments the power indicator is a second color or does not emit light if the security system is not connected to the power source.

As well the security system can include at least one speaker . The speaker can be located along any portion of the security system . For example the speaker can be located within an inner portion of the security system or along an outer portion of the security system . The speaker can be any type of sound output device configured to emit sound such as a digital speaker an analog speaker and the like. Furthermore the security system e.g. a doorbell can include an outer housing which can be water resistant and or waterproof. The outer housing can be made from metal or plastic such as molded plastic with a hardness of 60 Shore D. In some embodiments the outer housing is made from brushed nickel or aluminum.

Rubber seals can be used to make the outer housing water resistant or waterproof. The security system can be electrically coupled to a power source such as wires electrically connected to a building s electrical power system. In some embodiments the security system includes a battery for backup and or primary power.

Wireless communication can enable the security system e.g. a doorbell to communicate with the computing device . Some embodiments enable communication via cellular and or WiFi networks. Some embodiments enable communication via the Internet. Several embodiments enable wired communication between the security system and the computing device . The wireless communication can include the following communication means radio WiFi e.g. wireless local area network cellular Internet Bluetooth telecommunication electromagnetic infrared light sonic and microwave. Other communication means are used by some embodiments. In some embodiments such as embodiments that include telecommunication or cellular communication means the security system can initiate voice calls or send text messages to a computing device e.g. a smartphone a desktop computer a tablet computer a laptop computer .

Several embodiments use near field communication NFC to communicate between the computing device and the doorbell . The doorbell and or the computing device can include a NFC tag. Some NFC technologies include Bluetooth radio frequency identification and QR codes.

Some embodiments include computer software e.g. application software which can be a mobile application designed to run on smartphones tablet computers and other mobile devices. Software of this nature is sometimes referred to as app software. Some embodiments include software designed to run on desktop computers and laptop computers.

The computing device can run software with a graphical user interface. The user interface can include icons or buttons. In some embodiments the software is configured for use with a touch screen computing device such as a smartphone or tablet.

The user interface can include a connectivity indicator . In some embodiments the connectivity indicator can indicate whether the computing device is in communication with a security system the Internet and or a cellular network. The connectivity indicator can alert the user if the computing device has lost its connection with the security system the security system has been damaged the security system has been stolen the security system has been removed from its mounting location the security system lost electrical power and or if the computing device cannot communicate with the security system . In some embodiments the connectivity indicator alerts the user of the computing device by flashing emitting a sound displaying a message and or displaying a symbol.

In some embodiments if the security system loses power loses connectivity to the computing device loses connectivity to the Internet and or loses connectivity to a remote server a remote server sends an alert e.g. phone call text message image on the user interface regarding the power and or connectivity issue. In several embodiments the remote server can manage communication between the security system and the computing device. In some embodiments information from the security system is stored by the remote server . In several embodiments information from the security system is stored by the remote server until the information can be sent to the computing device uploaded to the computing device and or displayed to the remotely located person via the computing device . The remote server can be a computing device that stores information from the security system and or from the computing device . In some embodiments the remote server is located in a data center.

In some embodiments the computing device and or the remote server attempts to communicate with the security system . If the computing device and or the remote server is unable to communicate with the security system the computing device and or the remote server alerts the remotely located person via the software phone text a displayed message and or a website. In some embodiments the computing device and or the remote server attempts to communicate with the security system periodically at least every five hours and or less than every 10 minutes at least every 24 hours and or less than every 60 minutes or at least every hour and or less than every second.

In some embodiments the server can initiate communication to the computer device and or to the security system . In several embodiments the server can initiate control and or block communication between the computing device and the security system .

In several embodiments a user can log into an app website and or software on a computing device e.g. mobile computing device smartphone tablet desktop computer to adjust the security system settings discussed herein.

In some embodiments a computing device can enable a user to watch live video and or hear live audio from a security system due to the user s request rather than due to actions of a visitor. Some embodiments include a computing device initiating a live video feed or a video feed that is less than five minutes old .

In some embodiments the user interface displays an image such as a still image or a video of an area near and or in front of the security system . The image can be taken by the camera assembly and stored by the security system server and or computing device . The user interface can include a recording button to enable a user to record images videos and or sound from the camera assembly microphone of the security system and or microphone of the computing device .

In several embodiments the user interface includes a picture button to allow the user to take still pictures and or videos of the area near and or in front of the security system . The user interface can also include a sound adjustment button and a mute button . The user interface can include camera manipulation buttons such as zoom pan and light adjustment buttons. In some embodiments the camera assembly automatically adjusts between Day Mode and Night Mode. Some embodiments include an infrared camera and or infrared lights to illuminate an area near the security system to enable the camera assembly to provide sufficient visibility even at night .

In some embodiments buttons include diverse means of selecting various options features and functions. Buttons can be selected by mouse clicks keyboard commands and touching a touch screen. Many embodiments include buttons that can be selected without touch screens.

In some embodiments the user interface includes a quality selection button which can allow a user to select the quality and or amount of the data transmitted from the security system to the computing device and or from the computing device to the security system .

In some embodiments video can be sent to and or received from the computing device using video chat protocols such as FaceTime by Apple Inc. or Skype by Microsoft Corporation . In some embodiments these videos are played by videoconferencing apps on the computing device instead of being played by the user interface .

The user interface can include a termination button to end communication between the security system and the computing device . In some embodiments the termination button ends the ability of the person located near the security system i.e. the visitor to hear and or see the user of the computing device but does not end the ability of the user of the computing device to hear and or see the person located near the security system .

In some embodiments a button is both an answer button to accept a communication request from a visitor and is a termination button to end communication between the security system and the computing device . The button can include the word Answer when the system is attempting to establish two way communication between the visitor and the user. Selecting the button when the system is attempting to establish two way communication between the visitor and the user can start two way communication. The button can include the words End Call during two way communication between the visitor and the user. Selecting the button during two way communication between the visitor and the user can terminate two way communication. In some embodiments terminating two way communication still enables the user to see and hear the visitor. In some embodiments terminating two way communication causes the computing device to stop showing video from the security system and to stop emitting sounds recorded by the security system.

In some embodiments the user interface opens as soon as the security system detects a visitor e.g. senses indications of a visitor . Once the user interface opens the user can see and or hear the visitor even before answering or otherwise accepting two way communication in several embodiments.

Some method embodiments include detecting a visitor with a security system. The methods can include causing the user interface to display on a remote computing device due to the detection of the visitor e.g. with or without user interaction . The methods can include displaying video from the security system and or audio from the security system before the user accepts two way communication with the visitor. The methods can include displaying video from the security system and or audio from the security system before the user accepts the visitor s communication request. The methods can include the computing device simultaneously asking the user if the user wants to accept e.g. answer the communication request and displaying audio and or video of the visitor. For example in some embodiments the user can see and hear the visitor via the security system before opening a means of two way communication with the visitor.

In some embodiments the software includes means to start the video feed on demand. For example a user of the computing device might wonder what is happening near the security system . The user can open the software application on the computing device and instruct the application to show live video and or audio from the security device even if no event near the security system has triggered the communication.

In several embodiments the security device can be configured to record when the security device detects movement and or the presence of a person. The user of the computing device can later review all video and or audio records when the security device detected movement and or the presence of a person.

Referring now to in some embodiments the server controls communication between the computing device and the security system which can be a doorbell with a camera a microphone and a speaker. In several embodiments the server does not control communication between the computing device and the security system .

In some embodiments data captured by the security system and or the computing device such as videos pictures and audio is stored by another remote device such as the server . Cloud storage enterprise storage and or networked enterprise storage can be used to store video pictures and or audio from the communication system or from any part of the communication system . The user can download and or stream stored data and or storage video pictures and or audio. For example a user can record visitors for a year and then later can review conversations with visitors from the last year. In some embodiments remote storage the server the computing device and or the security system can store information and statistics regarding visitors and usage.

Electrical wires can electrically couple the doorbell to the electrical system of the building such that the doorbell can receive electrical power from the building . The building can include a door lock to lock the door .

A wireless network can allow devices to wirelessly access the Internet. The security system can access the Internet via the wireless network . The wireless network can transmit data from the security system to the Internet which can transmit the data to remotely located computing devices . The Internet and wireless networks can transmit data from remotely located computing devices to the security system . In some embodiments a security system connects to a home s WiFi.

As illustrated in one computing device e.g. a laptop a smartphone a mobile computing device a television can communicate with multiple security systems . In some embodiments multiple computing devices can communicate with one security system .

In some embodiments the security system can communicate e.g. wirelessly with a television which can be a smart television. Users can view the television to see a visitor and or talk with the visitor.

In some cases the users utilize the communication system to communicate with visitors who are in close proximity to the users . For example a user located inside her home can communicate with a visitor located just outside the home via the communication system .

The doorbell can include one or more heating elements configured to regulate the temperature of the doorbell . For example doorbells can be used in very cold environments such as in Alaska. The heating element can be used in various methods to protect temperature sensitive portions of the doorbell from cold weather.

While protecting the doorbell from cold weather can be important in some embodiments protecting visitors from excessive heat can also be important in some embodiments. Excessive heat could burn visitors as they ring the doorbell e.g. press the doorbell button shown in . The doorbell can include a thermometer to enable the system to determine the temperature inside a portion of the doorbell and or outside the doorbell .

Several embodiments can be configured for 9 to 40 volts alternating current VAC and or 9 to 40 volts direct current VDC . Some embodiments convert input electricity into direct current DC such as 12 VDC. Several embodiments include a converter for power conversion e.g. converting electrical energy from one form to another . The converter can convert input power e.g. from wiring in a building to a suitable power form for the doorbell . The power conversion can convert between AC and DC change the voltage and or change the frequency. The converter can include a transformer and or a voltage regulator. In several embodiments the converter can include a DC to DC converter a voltage stabilizer a linear regulator a surge protector a rectifier a power supply unit a switch an inverter and or a voltage converter. In some embodiments the converter converts 50 Hertz Hz power into 60 Hz power. The electrical components of the doorbell e.g. the camera assembly the memory the chip the speaker the converter the microphone the lights the rectifier the proximity sensor the communication module the heating element the electrical connectors the thermometer the image analysis system and the battery can be electrically coupled to a printed circuit board PCB and can receive electrical power from the PCB .

The PCB and the electrical components of the doorbell can be the electrical system of the doorbell . Additional details regarding the PCB and the electrical components of the doorbell are described in U.S. Nonprovisional patent application Ser. No. 14 612 376 filed Feb. 3 2015 and entitled DOORBELL COMMUNICATION SYSTEMS AND METHODS. The entire contents of patent application Ser. No. 14 612 376 are incorporated by reference herein.

Although some embodiments are described in the context of methods the method embodiments can also be formulated as devices and systems. Methods described herein can be applied to the devices and systems incorporated by references herein.

Referring now to software can start the video feed on demand. For example a user of the computing device might wonder what is happening near the security system . The user can open the software application e.g. an app on the computing device and instruct the application to show live video and or audio from the security device even if no event near the security system has triggered the communication.

Several embodiments include on demand service. For example a user can initiate communicate via a doorbell and or can initiate live video from the doorbell by pressing a button on a user interface shown in . Pressing the on demand button again can terminate the communication and or the live video.

The security system may be configured to play unique sounds in response to detecting specific situations and or during certain times of day. The sounds may be preprogrammed sounds or completely customizable by a user of the security system . As well the security system may be configured to play any of the sounds according to specific situations. For example the security system may be configured to play a specific message for a specific visiting individual and or may be configured to play a specific message when a potential visitor is identified as a specific person or is included in a list of specific people.

The security system may include a speaker configured to emit any type of sound. The security system may also include a visitor detection system that may include at least one of a button a camera and a motion detector . Accordingly the visitor detection system may be configurable to receive various indications of a visitor s presence. As well the speaker and the visitor detection system may be directly or indirectly coupled to the security system . Even still the speaker and the visitor detection system may be mechanically electrically and or communicatively coupled to the security system .

The security system may detect different indications of a visitor s presence. As shown in the security system can be configured to receive a first indication of a visitor s presence at step . In response to receiving the first indication of the visitor s presence the security system can emit a first sound with the speaker at step . The security system can be configured to receive a second indication of a visitor s presence at step . In response to receiving the second indication of the visitor s presence the security system can emit a second sound with the speaker at step . The first sound can be audibly different than the second sound.

Some of the indications can be interpreted as being associated with a friendly or welcome visitor while other indications can be interpreted as being associated with an unfriendly or unwelcome visitor. According to these different indications the security system by the speaker can emit different sounds.

With reference to when the security system receives an indication that a visitor has pressed the button at step this can be interpreted as an indication of a friendly or welcome visitor. In response to receiving the indication that the button has been pressed the speaker can emit a first sound at step such as a friendly sound e.g. Welcome to our humble abode. .

As illustrated in when the security system receives an indication that a visitor has been moving in front of the security system for a prolonged or predetermined time e.g. 15 seconds or any time that indicates that the visitor is loitering without pressing the button at step this can be interpreted as an unfriendly or unwelcome visitor. In response to receiving the indication that the visitor has been moving in front of the security system without pressing the button the speaker can emit a second sound at step . The second sound can be an alert sound e.g. a warning to move away from the building Step away from the house . It should be appreciated that the security system can be configured to emit any number of sounds such as a third sound a fourth sound a fifth sound and any number of additional sounds.

The security system can be configured to receive any number of indications. For example in addition to a button press and a motion of a visitor the indications can include indications of a remote computing device a noise a thermal signature such as a thermal gradient indicating the presence of a person or animal a retina scan a fingerprint scan a ground vibration and the like. It should be appreciated that the indication can include any indication of a presence of any visitor such as a person or animal.

In some embodiments the security system can emit different sounds for a first visitor. For example as the first visitor approaches the building the security system can emit a first sound based upon the motion of the first visitor. As well the security system can emit a second sound once the first visitor pushes the button of the security system .

Furthermore any of the indications described in this disclosure can be associated with a visitor that is either welcome or unwelcome at the building. Accordingly the security system can be configured to any environment in which the building is situated. For example some buildings can be located in high traffic areas where it is common for people to walk by the front of the security system without pressing the button . In this regard the security system can be configured to ignore indications of motion and only emit sounds in response to affirmative indications that the visitor is visiting the building such as an indication that the button has been pressed. In some embodiments the security system can be configured to only respond to motion in certain zones. For example if the security system is located 20 feet from a busy sidewalk then the security system can be configured to ignore all motion that occurs more than 15 feet from the security system . In this manner the security system can only respond to movements occurring on the building property.

As well combinations of indications can be interpreted in various manners. For example a combination of an indication of motion i.e. movement of a visitor in front of the security system and an indication that the visitor has pressed the button can indicate that the visitor is welcome at the building . As previously described the speaker of the security system can emit a friendly message in response to the combination of indications.

Even still the security system can be configured to emit different sounds in response to a positive detection of one indication and a negative detection of another indication. For example if the security system detects motion of a visitor but does not detect sound this can be interpreted as an unwelcome visitor such as a prowler sneaking around the outside of the building . In response the speaker of the security system can emit an alert sound e.g. a warning to exit the premise before the authorities are notified .

Furthermore the time of day and or day when a visitor approaches the building can also indicate whether the visitor is welcome or not. As shown in the security system can be configured to receive an indication of a visitor s presence at a first time of day at step . The first time of day can occur between sunrise and sunset or any other time of day. In response to receiving the indication of the visitor s presence at the first time of day the security system can emit a first sound with the speaker at step . In some embodiments the first sound comprises an audible message spoken by a female voice while some embodiments may comprise an audible message spoken by a male voice.

Furthermore the security system can be configured to receive an indication of the visitor s presence at a second time of day at step . It should be appreciated that the second time of day can occur between sunset and sunrise or any other time of day. In response to receiving the indication of the visitor s presence at the second time of day the security system can emit a second sound with the speaker at step . In some embodiments the second sound comprises an audible message spoken by a male voice while some embodiments may comprise an audible message spoken by a female voice.

To illustrate a more specific example such as the one shown in if a visitor presses the button at noon on a weekend day at step the speaker can emit a welcome message e.g. Welcome. We ll be right there. at step . In another example as illustrated in if a visitor presses the button at midnight on a workday at step the speaker can emit a do not disturb message or a message instructing the visitor to come back another time e.g. Please come back tomorrow .

Combinations of indications can be interpreted differently depending on the time of day. For example in response to an indication of a motion and a noise during the day the speaker of the security system can emit a friendly message. However in response to an indication of a motion and a noise during the night the speaker can emit a warning message.

Even still the security system can be configured to respond differently based on the unique circumstances of the indication. For example if the motion detector of the security system detects a slow movement versus a faster movement then the speaker can emit different sounds based upon these various circumstances. A slow movement can be interpreted as a prowler approaching the building while a faster movement such as a movement of a person walking at 3.5 miles per hour can be interpreted as a friendly visitor approaching the building .

The time of day can be any selected time of day and any number of time ranges can be used. For example the security system can emit a welcome message during sunrise to sunset and an alert or warning message during sunset to sunrise. Accordingly because sunrise and sunset change on a daily basis the security system can be communicatively coupled to an outside database s to allow the security system to thereby automatically respond to these ever changing conditions.

The security system e.g. doorbell can elect to emit a particular sound such as a first sound or a second sound based on a time at which the security system detects an indication of a presence of a visitor. In some embodiments the security system is configured to detect an amount of light which may indicate a time of day. In response to detecting the amount of light the security system can elect to emit the first sound or the second sound based on the amount of light.

As well the security system can be configured to provide unique responses during different time ranges on specific days. For example the user may have a bowling league every third Monday of the month. Accordingly during that time e.g. from 6 pm 8 30 pm on the third Monday of the month in response to detecting an indication of a presence of a friendly visitor the speaker of the security system can emit a friendly message telling the visitor that their presence is appreciated but the visitor should come back another time. In another example the user may be on vacation from the 1to the 10and the user may wish to emit more intimidating warnings to secure the building . Generally speaking the security system can be configured to emit any type of sound in response to any time of day and or day.

The security system can be configured to detect specific visitors and emit certain sounds in response to detecting the specific visitors. For example if the security system detects a first visitor such as a relative of the homeowner the security system can always emit a friendly sound no matter how the first visitor approaches the home or during what time of day. As well if the security system detects a second visitor such as an unknown party e.g. a solicitor the security system can emit an unfriendly sound no matter how the second visitor approaches the home or during what time of day.

To determine the identity of a visitor the security system can use any type of identity recognition technology such as facial recognition to determine an indication of an identity of a visitor. Some of these types of identity recognition technologies are disclosed in U.S. Nonprovisional patent application Ser. No. 14 612 376 filed Feb. 3 2015 and entitled DOORBELL COMMUNICATION SYSTEMS AND METHODS. The entire contents of patent application Ser. No. 14 612 376 are incorporated by reference herein.

The different types of sounds emitted by the speaker can be configured to match the appropriate indication as detected by the security system . For example if the security system detects an unfriendly visitor the speaker can emit a message spoken by a male voice to thereby intimidate the unfriendly visitor. Contra if the security system detects a friendly visitor the speaker can emit a message spoken by a female voice to thereby welcome the visitor. As well the security system can be configured to emit any other type of sound. For example a welcome visitor can be greeted by a pleasant melody or a ding dong while an unwelcome visitor can be greeted by an alarm sound or a warning message.

As well messages can be spoken in any language volume pitch accent and the like. Users may find that various combinations of vocal characteristics to be useful in different situations. For example if a user is hosting a Mardi gras party the user can configure the security system to emit a message spoken by a person with a southern accent. Generally it should be appreciated that the speaker of the security system can be configured to emit any type of sound for any type of specific situation.

Likewise the security system can be configured to play a specific message if the potential visitor is not included in a list. For example where a potential visitor is not included in a list of the resident s contacts the security system can be configured to indicate that the resident does not accept solicitors and or request the visitor to provide identifying information or describe the purpose of the visit.

In some embodiments the security system can be configured to play a specific message if the potential visitor has a criminal background. For example a user can configure the security system to play a specific message where a potential visitor is a registered sex offender.

The sounds emitted by the security system can be recorded by the user him herself. As well the sounds can be downloaded from another source such as a remote computer e.g. a remote server a remote computing device e.g. a smart phone a website a database e.g. iTunes and the like. Also methods can include selecting the first sound and the second sound with a remote computing device that is configured to receive alerts from the doorbell. The selected sounds can be wirelessly transmitted to the doorbell.

As well the sounds can be recorded with a remote computing device and the sounds can be set up for temporary use whereby the sounds can expire upon a predetermined time. For example a user can enter an expiration date of the recorded sound with the remote computing device . Furthermore the user can wirelessly send the first sound and the expiration date from the remote computing device to the doorbell. Once the expiration date passes the security system can then cease to emit the recorded sound from the security system .

As well the security system can be configured to receive sound emitting parameters from a remote computing device . The security system can emit a predetermined sound based upon the sound emitting parameter. In some embodiments the sound emitting parameter includes at least one of an identity of the first visitor data associated with the first visitor a time a location of a user of the remote computing device. In some embodiments the security system can automatically download a third sound based on the sound emitting parameters. The security system can emit the third sound from the speaker according to rules associated with the third sound.

Embodiments of the security system can be configured to alert individuals located outside of a building e.g. a home . For example the security system can be configured to flash a light emit a sound e.g. alternating high pitch and low pitch sounds initiate a communication session with a remote computing device and the like. These various alerts can be useful to individuals such as first responders seeking to identify the location of an event such as an emergency event s occurring within or outside the home. Home as used herein may refer to a building whereby one or more occupants sleep in the building on a permanent basis. Home may distinguishable from an office building by the lack of permanent occupants that sleep in the office building. Home may refer to an apartment building due to the permanent nature of an occupant for the duration of a lease. Home may be distinguishable from a hotel due to the lack of permanent occupants.

In various embodiments the security system can be communicatively coupled directly and or via the cloud to a communication device such as a hub device a communication system and or an event detection device such as a sensor e.g. a peripheral device such as a Nest Protect registered by Google Inc. Nest Learning Thermostat registered by Google Inc. DropCam registered by Google Inc. and the like. The communication device event detection device and or the security system can be used to monitor various events within the building e.g. home . Specifically the communication device and or event detection device can detect emergency events and then notify the security system . In some embodiments the communication device is communicatively coupled to the event detection device that detects the emergency event or adverse event which is discussed further herein . In this manner the security system may directly or indirectly receive a notification of the emergency event from the event detection device and or the communication device .

The security system can communicate with the communication device via a communication network . The communication network can be similar to the wireless communication however the communication network can be wired or wireless. In embodiments the communication network can utilize the existing electrical wires in the doorbell wires to communicate with the security system e.g. powerline networking . The communication network can also utilize a wired Local Area Network. In embodiments the communication network can include a Wide Area Network WAN that connects the communication device to the security system over the Internet.

In embodiments the communication device is a type of device that is configured to connect multiple devices and facilitate communication between the multiple devices. The security system may be a device that also is communicatively coupled to the communication device . The communication device may receive a transmission from one device i.e. an event detection device make a determination on what type of communication to perform e.g. an alert and transmit the communication to a second device e.g. the security system to take further action.

The security system can be configured to communicate with remote computing devices i.e. the computing device . The computing device may refer to a remote computing device in embodiments. The security system can initiate a communication session through the communication network by sending a request to the computing device to establish a secure connection e.g. a virtual private network to enhance security. In embodiments the communication session may also include an indication that an event as discussed further herein has been initiated.

The security system can have an outer housing . The outer housing may be configurable to attach to a building . The outer housing of the security system can attach to the building using a variety of permanent or temporary mounting mechanisms. In embodiments the permanent mounting mechanism may prevent the removal of the security system . The building may include a variety of structures. For example the building includes a home which is a type of building . The home can include various types of structures in various square footages. For example a home can be a wooden framed building with an exterior of stucco brick or siding. In embodiments a home can be distinguished from other types of buildings based on the livable area e.g. 500 square feet to 5000 square feet . In embodiments a home can also be defined as being a freestanding structure without shared walls. A home may also be defined by zoning constraints. For example the home may be zoned residential instead of commercial or industrial.

The outer housing can also include a visitor detection system coupled to the outer housing . The visitor detection system can be an assembly of components that are collectively configured to detect visitors in the immediate vicinity e.g. within 0.5 to 50 feet of the security system . The visitor detection system can include the doorbell button the camera assembly and an audio input device . In addition the visitor detection system can also include the motion detector and fingerprint sensor . The audio input device can be a device that captures audio e.g. a microphone . The audio input device can have various sensitivity ranges depending on the application. In embodiments the audio input device can include multiple microphones to extend the coverage area of audio capture. For example the audio input device can have one microphone on board the outer housing and receive input from another microphone located within the house e.g. through the communication network .

The outer housing may also include a deactivation unit . The deactivation unit can be a component that is communicatively coupled to the security system . The deactivation unit may be responsible for disabling the alert communication system . In embodiments the deactivation unit is part of the alert communication system . The alert communication system may work passively or actively. In an active configuration the security system can actively monitor for a command to deactivate. For example the security system can send activation status requested signal to a deactivation unit in regular intervals along with a unique randomized code and receive an activation True signal from the deactivation unit along with the unique randomized code. When communication is interrupted then a non response of the activation status may indicate activation True . When deactivated the deactivation unit transmits an activation False signal along with the unique randomized code. The actively monitoring for the command can be advantageous where communication is lost with the deactivation unit i.e. the communication is modified or the deactivation is spoofed by an intruder .

The deactivation unit may also passively monitor for the command. For example an occupant may input a command through the deactivation unit that is transmitted to the security system . The security system can receive the command passively. In embodiments the deactivation unit may also be communicatively coupled with a remote computing device . The deactivation command may originate from the remote computing device to deactivate the alert communication system in either actively or passively.

The outer housing can also include an alert communication system coupled to the outer housing . The alert communication system can be configurable to activate in response to an initiation of an event. For example an alert from the communication device that is transmitted to the security system can activate various components on the security system through the alert communication system . The alert communication system can include components to communicate alerts to a user e.g. an occupant of the home . In embodiments the alert communication system is the security system or part of the security system . In embodiments the alert communication system includes a light and a speaker . The light can comprise the diagnostic light and or the power indicator light as shown in and or any other light coupled to the security system . As well the speaker may comprise the speaker as illustrated in and or any other speaker coupled to the security system .

In embodiments the alert communication system refers to a collection of components for the purpose of alerting an occupant of the building . The alert communication system can also refer to a control unit for the components that alert an occupant of the building . The control of the alert communication system can be separate from the control for the security system . In embodiments the alert communication system is attached to an exterior surface of the home i.e. a building . The outer housing may be attached to an interior surface of the home i.e. a building . The remote computing device can be operated by the homeowner i.e. a type of occupant .

The speaker of the alert communication system can be configured to emit a sound in response to the initiation of the event. For example if the communication device transmits an alert that indicates an emergency then the security device can emit a sound in the speaker that indicates danger. The speaker can be configured to emit a wide range of sounds and various decibel levels depending on the application. For example a more severe alert can be louder than a less severe alert. The security system can alert an occupant of suspicious smoke by saying the location of the smoke and the time the smoke was detected.

The speaker can simply emit a voice that says Danger Danger Danger to alert an occupant of the building . The sound emitted by the security device can be unique to the type of alert. For example if a fire alert is transmitted by the communication device then the security device can emit a voice that says Fire Fire Fire and repeats at a set interval. Various sounds can also be used to selectively alert other occupants. For example a high frequency sound of 24 kHz to 45 kHz can selectively alert canine occupants of the building without alerting a human. In another example a sound from 17 kHz to 23 kHz may selectively alert children but not adults. Various patterns of sounds can also be produced. For example the SOS Morse code pattern may be used to indicate distress.

The light of the security system may be configurable to illuminate in response to the initiation of the event. The light can emit a variety of colors in a variety of patterns. For example the light can emit both a green light a white light and a red light. A green light can be lit during normal operation. A white light color can be used for ordinary alerts such as a power outage. A red light color can be used to indicate an imminent emergency that alerts the occupant to leave the building immediately. For example the red light color can be used to alert the occupant of a gas leakage or a fire or armed intruders.

In embodiments the light can flash at various frequencies to indicate a pattern. For example three short flashes followed by three long flashes followed by three short flashes can indicate distress. While rapid flashes can indicate a higher priority than slower flashes of light. The light can be coordinated with the speaker . For example the light can flash at the same time that the speaker makes a sound. The light can also flash before or after the emission of sound from the speaker .

The alert communication system can also include emission of an odor. The odor can be discernable by an occupant to know that something is wrong or can ward away an intruder. For example if the communication device alerts the security system of an intruder then a strong smell such as that of a skunk can trigger a silent alarm. Various smells can be used. For example flowery odors can be used for non urgent alerts such as a water leak while mercaptan based odors can be used for urgent alerts.

The alert communication system can include remote communication . The remote communication can be responsible for communicating with a remote computing device the status of the alarm. In embodiments the remote communication can be a module that communicates with a security monitoring service which can also have a dedicated communication channel that is different than the communication network in order to alert authorities in the event of a power outage.

In embodiments the security system is powered by an electrical power input . The electrical power input can be a battery. The electrical power input can also be from an electrical source such as from a household Alternating Current. The electrical power input can also be configured to receive a step down voltage e.g. around 8V to 24V from doorbell wires . The alert communication system may be electrically coupled to electrical wires through the electrical power input . The electrical wires can be configurable to be coupled to the doorbell wires of a home e.g. the building . The alert communication system can be configurable to activate in response to a determination that an event has been initiated through the electrical wires . In embodiments the communication can happen over powerline networking. Various spikes in electrical signals from the electrical wires can also signal the alert communication system . In embodiments a lack of electrical signal from the electrical wires can also activate the alert communication system . For example the lack of electrical power input from the electrical wires can activate the alert communication system . The alert communication system can further utilize a backup battery system through the electrical power input and cause the light to emit white colored light so that an occupant can see.

The security system may be configured as a passive or active device. As a passive device the security system may receive notifications of emergency events from the communication device and or the event detection device . For example a smoke detector event detection device can transmit a smoke event to the communication device which may communicate to the security system an indication that the smoke event is occurring. The security system can be monitoring for notifications from the communication device whenever a communication channel is established.

As an active device the security system may be configured to actively monitor whether the communication device and or event detection device has detected the occurrence or initiation of an emergency event or adverse event . For example the security system can periodically request from the communication device a status of events. If there is no status then the security system can wait until another request is filled.

The security system may comprise an alert communication system that may include a light a speaker and a wireless communication system that may be configured to initiate a transmission with a remote computing device . For example the communication device may comprise a smart smoke detector e.g. Nest Protect registered by Google Inc. and in response to the smart smoke detector detecting elevated levels of smoke or elevated levels of other toxic gases the security system may activate its alert communication system e.g. flashing a light and or emit a sound . This may thereby alert individuals outside the home as to the location of the home where the emergency event is occurring.

As well it should be appreciated that the emergency event can comprise any type of event that may require the attention of another party. As used event can refer to an emergency event or an adverse event which indicates harm to an occupant or requires the attention of a party other than the occupant. For example the emergency event may comprise at least one of a fire a gas leak a break in elevated levels of smoke elevated levels of radon elevated levels of carbon monoxide and the like. The alert communication system can be configured to alert individuals located outside the home in any variety of ways. For example the alert communication system can flash a bright light emitting diode and or a light located behind the doorbell button such as the diagnostic light on the security system . In some examples the alert communication system can emit a loud sound from the speaker . For example the loud sound can be alternating high and low pitch sounds that may be heard by individuals located within 300 feet of the home. The high and low pitch sounds can be of high and low frequencies that may be heard by individuals located within a neighboring home and or a vehicle passing by. The loud sound can be a unique sound easily detectable by individuals. As well the sound can comprise a noise that indicates danger or help is required.

Furthermore the alert communication system can be configured to initiate a transmission to a remote computing device . For example if the security system determines that a break in has occurred the security system may initiate a computing session and or a notification with the remote computing device to alert an individual that is operating the remote computing device of the break in at the home. As well it should be appreciated that the security system can initiate a transmission to any other party such as an emergency dispatcher e.g. 911 .

The security system may be configured to activate its alert communication system after a predetermined amount of time. The predetermined amount of time may be 0 seconds 10 seconds 20 seconds 1 minute and the like. Generally it should be appreciated that the alert communication system may activate nearly at the same time as the communication device detecting the emergency event or any time thereafter.

In block the security system can establish a connection with the communication system. As mentioned herein the communication device may utilize either a wired or wireless connection to communicate with the security system . For example a wireless home network that utilizes Wi Fi may be used or local Bluetooth pairing may be used. Once connection is established then the communication device may be configured to only communicate with security system at the ID provided by the security system . For example the security system may have a unique IPv6 address that the communication device transmits to. The communication device may also have a unique IPv6 address that the security system transmits to. The security system may also be configured to receive alerts from only the IPv6 address that belongs to the communication device thus preventing spoofing type alarms. Various permissions may be set up using an Application Programming Interface API of the communication device . For example the security system can be set up as a client with read write permissions which identifies the security system that has permission to share data with the communication device .

In block the security system may monitor for an event. In embodiments the security system monitors for an event from the communication device . For example the communication device may receive a notification of an event from an event detection device . In embodiments the security system can monitor for an event using localized components. For example the security system may have a camera that is used to monitor for suspicious activity. The event may be communicated with the communication device and the communication device may take appropriate action e.g. notify emergency services . As mentioned herein the types of events may be selected from at least one of a fire a gas leak a break in elevated levels of smoke elevated levels of radon elevated levels of carbon monoxide and the like.

The event detection device may detect an event using a variety of methods. For example various thresholds may be employed to detect an event . For example the elevated levels of smoke event can be based off of optical obscuration or electrostatic precipitation. The smoke can be based off of a threshold of parts per million or percentage of optical transmittance. The radon event can be based off of PicoCuries per Liter reading from a radon detection unit. The gas leak event can be based off of an 80 Lower Explosive Limit. Various gas detectors can be used e.g. electrochemical infrared point infrared imaging semiconductor ultrasonic holographic etc. . A fire event may be detected using temperature or a combination of readings from a smoke event and a carbon monoxide event . The break in event may utilize various sensors present in the security system or external sensors to the security system e.g. motion sensors . The event is associated with a home i.e. building and the doorbell i.e. security system is attached to the home of a homeowner.

In block the security system can determine whether an event has been initiated. The event may be initiated whenever the security system receives a transmission from a communication device communicatively coupled to the security system. The transmission may be over various forms of communication and provide an indication that the event has been initiated. The security system may monitor the communication system to detect whether the event has been initiated. In embodiments the security system e.g. the doorbell can interface with a remote computing device to further communicate to an occupant that there is an alert at the home. Communicating via the remote computing device may have the benefit of keeping occupants informed while away from the home. The security device can establish a communication session with a remote computing device in a similar manner as to the communication device . The communication session may include an indication that the event that has been initiated. For example an occupant can receive a communication of a fire alert on a local application on their remote computing device from the security system .

In block the security system can determine the alarm type. In embodiments block may be optional. Despite a variety of devices available to the security system not all devices or tools may be appropriate in certain settings. For example a non urgent alert such as elevated radon levels may not warrant a high pitched high volume noise in the middle of the night. The security system can balance the severity of the alert with the certainty for the alert. For example significant amounts of dust can trigger a smoke detector but the certainty of a fire can be determined using a carbon monoxide detector in conjunction with the smoke detector. The severity of a fire may be high but if the certainty that a fire is occurring is low then the security system can determine that another alarm type is more appropriate. Examples of determining an alarm type are described further herein.

In block the security system can activate the alert communication system in response to determining that the event has been initiated in block . In embodiments activating the alert communication system can include activating selected components of the alert communication system e.g. the speaker or the light . As mentioned herein the alert communication system can include a light which when the alert communication system is activated can cause the light to illuminate in a variety of patterns and colors. The alert communication system can also include a speaker that emits a sound in a variety of intensities frequencies and patterns. The activating can also include activating a control element for the alert communication system . The control element for the alert communication system can instigate a variety of patterns and alerts for multiple components e.g. a flashing light followed by emission of selected sound frequencies .

In block once the alert communication system is activated the security system can monitor for a command to deactivate the alert communication system . In embodiments block may be optional. For example a user of the security system may not desire the security system to alert occupants e.g. a false positive . The command can be a sequence of instructions that is understood by the security system to deactivate the alert communication system . In embodiments the command can be a button press and an audible predetermined message. For example an occupant can push a button e.g. the door bell button and speak an audible predetermined message such as Alarm Deactivate to deactivate the alert communication system . In various embodiments the deactivation unit can be configured to perform vocal recognition in order to distinguish between the voice of the occupant with the voice of a non occupant such as a prowler. Once the command is received then the method can continue to operation .

In block the security system can deactivate the alert communication system in response to receiving the command to deactivate the alert communication system. The alert communication system may be deactivated in a variety of ways. For example the alert communication system may deactivate e.g. turn off the current alert in response to the security system receiving an indication that the doorbell button has been pressed. In some embodiments the security system may be configured to turn off the alert communication system in response to receiving an audible predetermined message such as a spoken safety message or a spoken password that indicates that the event is being attended to or has ended. In some embodiments the security system can receive a deactivation command from the remote computing device . In this manner the individual operating the remote computing device may send a command through the remote computing device to terminate the ongoing alert. The deactivation of the alert communication system can include selectively deactivating less than all of the components of the alert communication system . For example the deactivating of the alert communication system can include deactivating only the localized communication i.e. the speaker and the light but not the remote communication with law enforcement e.g. a silent alarm .

The alarm type can also be based on threshold values. For example if the certainty of a fire is 20 but the severity is high the security system can create a score that is based on the severity and the certainty. The security system based on the score can determine the type of alarm. For example a high severity event with a low certainty may such as the fire may be associated with a sound to invite an occupant to investigate further. A high severity event such as a gas leak but with a higher certainty may trigger a red flash along with the sound. A low severity event such as a baby crying can trigger a different set of alarm types such as playing comforting music.

The security system or doorbell may be configured to receive a custom sound s from a user and thereby emit the custom sound in response to a particular situation s . For example as illustrated in a doorbell system may receive a custom message at step . A user of the system may then optionally assign the custom message to a select visitor at step . Thereby when an indication of a presence of the select visitor is detected by the doorbell at step the doorbell may then respond by emitting the custom message with a speaker of the doorbell at step . It should be appreciated that the term detecting may be defined as discovering or identifying the presence or existence of a visitor. As such the term detecting may be used interchangeably with the term determining. 

The custom sound or custom message may be received by the doorbell system in a variety of ways. As shown in the doorbell system may download the custom message from a remote computer such as a remote computing device e.g. a smart phone at step . As well the doorbell system may record the custom message at step . For example a user of the doorbell system may record the custom message on his or her remote computing device such as a smart phone at step and then download the custom message from the smart phone onto the doorbell system . In some embodiments the custom message may be directly recorded by the doorbell at step such as recorded by a microphone of the doorbell . Generally it should be appreciated that the custom message may be recorded by any type of recording device that is communicatively coupled to the doorbell system at step . In this manner the doorbell system may download the custom message from the recording device.

As further illustrated in any number of custom messages may be recorded and or downloaded by the doorbell system . For example the doorbell system may record and or download a second custom message at step a third custom message a fourth custom message and any number of additional custom messages.

The doorbell system may also be configured to interact with a visitor whereby the doorbell system gives and receives audible information. In this manner the doorbell system may interpret information from the visitor. With reference to the doorbell system e.g. a speaker of the doorbell may be configured to emit an audible question s at step . The doorbell system e.g. via a microphone of the doorbell may then receive an audible response from the visitor at step . The doorbell system may thereby determine the meaning of the audible response given by the visitor. For example the doorbell system may determine whether the audible response comprises a first meaning or a second meaning at step . For example if the doorbell system determines that the audible response comprises the first meaning the doorbell may then emit a first audible response via the speaker at step . As well if the doorbell system determines that the audible response comprises the second meaning the doorbell may then emit a second audible response via the speaker at step . In this manner the doorbell system may be a smart system that is able to interpret and respond to different responses given by the visitor.

The doorbell system may also be configured to initiate a communication session with a remote computing device such as a remote computing device associated with the visitor and or a user of the doorbell system e.g. a resident of the building . For example the doorbell system may detect an indication of a presence of a visitor at step . The doorbell system may then initiate a communication session with the remote computing device of the visitor and or the resident at step . The communication session may comprise any type of communication and or transmission to the remote computing device such as a text message phone call voicemail email and the like. For example the communication session may comprise a written message that substantially matches a content of the custom message as emitted by the speaker . In this manner hearing impaired visitors may be able to receive the message.

Furthermore in some embodiments the doorbell system may be configured to determine an identity of a first visitor and or a second visitor. Accordingly the doorbell system may initiate a communication session such as transmit a text message to a remote computing device that includes at least one of the identity of the first visitor and or the identity of the second visitor. Generally it should be appreciated that the communication session may include any type of information relating to the visitor and or the visitor s presence at the doorbell .

The doorbell system may also be configured to detect various types of visitors. In some embodiments as illustrated in the doorbell system may be referred to as a first doorbell system which may be configured to detect an indication of a presence of a criminal at step . The first doorbell system may detect the indication of the presence of a visitor such as a criminal by receiving a notification from a second doorbell system that is communicatively coupled to the first doorbell system and remotely located with respect to the first doorbell system . For example the second doorbell system may determine that a criminal is in the area and then alert all other doorbell systems located within the vicinity including the first doorbell system

With reference to in response to the doorbell and or doorbell system detecting the indication of the presence of the criminal the doorbell may emit a warning message with a speaker of the doorbell at step . The doorbell system may then initiate a communication session with a law enforcement agency to notify the agency of the presence of the criminal at step . It should be appreciated that the warning message may include a message to scare away the criminal and or inform the criminal that the law enforcement agency has been contacted.

As shown in the doorbell system may also be configured to identify a visitor such as a criminal or suspicious person by taking a picture of the visitor at step . The doorbell system may then determine based on the picture that the visitor is included in a database of suspicious visitors such as a database of criminals that previously visited other doorbells at step . The doorbell system and or a remote computer may use facial recognition software to match the facial data of the criminal with facial data from a law enforcement database. As well the doorbell system may detect the indication of the presence of the criminal by detecting body language of the criminal such as detecting evasive or suspicious moves detecting a fingerprint of the criminal detecting a retina of the criminal and the like.

As well the doorbell system may be configured to determine various types of visitors. As shown in for example the doorbell system may determine that a visitor is a predetermined visitor type at step . The predetermined visitor type may comprise any type of visitor such as a known visitor e.g. a friend a family member and or anyone included on a smart phone contact list of a user a known visitor a suspicious visitor a criminal and the like. In response to determining that the visitor is the predetermined visitor type the doorbell system via the doorbell can select a custom message from a first message and a second message at step . In response to determining that the visitor is a known person the doorbell system may emit the first message at step . In some embodiments the first message optionally includes a name of the known person. For example the doorbell system may determine that a known person named Tim who is a friend of the resident is present. Accordingly the doorbell may audibly announce Welcome Tim. 

Likewise in response to determining that the visitor is a stranger the doorbell may emit the second message at step . For example if the doorbell system determines that the stranger is a solicitor the doorbell may emit an audible message informing the solicitor that the resident does not purchase items from solicitors an apology and an invitation to exit the premise. Generally it should be appreciated that the doorbell system may be configured to determine any type of visitor and emit any type of custom message in response to the type of visitor.

The doorbell system may also be configured to emit custom messages in response to the occurrence of predetermined conditions. As illustrated in the doorbell system may detect an indication of a presence of a visitor at step . The doorbell system may thereby determine that a predetermined condition has occurred at step . For example the predetermined condition may be a time of day a period of days such as a time when the resident s is on vacation an event e.g. a birthday party during a football game etc. and the like. Accordingly in response to the indication of the presence of the visitor and the occurrence of the predetermined condition the doorbell may thereby emit a custom message at step . It should be appreciated that the custom message may correspond with the occurrence of the predetermined condition. For example if the predetermined condition is the occurrence of a game in which the resident s favorite football team is competing then the custom message may be the fight song for the football team.

The predetermined condition may also be an occurrence when the resident s is away from the building or when the resident s is located within the building . With specific reference to the doorbell system may be configured to record and or download more than one custom message such as a first custom message and or a second custom message and then emit the respective custom message in particular situations at step . Accordingly the method may thereby include determining whether a resident is located within the building or whether the resident is not located within the building at step . In response to determining that the resident is present within the building the doorbell may thereby emit the first custom message at step . For example the first custom message may be a message informing the visitor that the resident will be right there such as Please wait a moment. Mr. Banks will be right there whereby Mr. Banks is the resident . In response to determining that the resident is not present within the building the doorbell may thereby emit the second custom message at step . The second custom message may include a message informing the visitor that the resident is busy if the visitor is a suspicious person to avoid a robbery or away from the building if the visitor is a known person . For example the second custom message may state I m sorry. Mr. Banks is currently occupied. Please come back another time. 

The doorbell system via the doorbell may be configured to receive the custom message in response to a variety of inputs as received by the doorbell system . For example as shown by the doorbell may receive an indication of a first button press from a button of the doorbell at step . In response to receiving the first button press the doorbell may thereby record the custom message and store the custom message within a memory of the doorbell system at step . As well the doorbell system may be configured to receive an input such as receive an indication of a second button press from the doorbell at step . In response to receiving the second button press the doorbell system can thereby erase the custom message from the memory of the doorbell system at step .

It should be appreciated that any reference to first button press second button press and the like can refer to any number of button presses or duration of respective button presses. For example the first button press can comprise two button presses and the second button press can comprise one button press. As well the first button press can comprise one button press and the second button press can comprise two button presses. In some embodiments the first button press can comprise the button being pressed for a first duration and the second button press can comprise the button being pressed for a second duration. It should be appreciated that the first duration can be greater than equal to or less than the second duration.

However it should be appreciated that the inputs may be any type of inputs into the doorbell system . For example in conjunction or instead of a first and second button press the doorbell system may be configured to receive various motions from the user. In some embodiments the camera of the doorbell may detect a first motion from the user such as the user waving a hand once. In response to detecting the first motion the doorbell may thereby record the custom message and store the custom message within a memory of the doorbell system . As well the camera may detect a second motion from the user such as the user waving a hand twice. In response to detecting the second motion the doorbell may thereby erase the custom message from the memory of the doorbell system . Generally it should be appreciated that any type of input such as a bodily motion may be received by the doorbell system .

The doorbell system may also be configured to provide security and anonymity to a user of the doorbell system . For example as shown in the doorbell system may record and or download a first custom message at step . The first custom message may be spoken by a first voice. The doorbell system may be configured to effectively convert the first message into a second message whereby the second message is spoken by a second voice that is different from the first voice. The content of the first custom message can substantially match the content of the second custom message. As such the doorbell system may emit the second custom message at step that is spoken by the second voice. In this manner the doorbell system may effectively protect the identity of the user e.g. resident of the doorbell system .

With respect to the various predetermined conditions as shown in the doorbell system may create a schedule of a first timeframe to emit a first sound a second timeframe to emit a second sound and a third timeframe to emit a third sound at step . The doorbell system may thereby determine that a visitation time of the visitor is within the first timeframe at step and in response to determining that the visitation time of the visitor is within the first timeframe the doorbell may emit the first sound at step . Accordingly if the doorbell system determines that the visitation time of the visitor is within the second timeframe the doorbell may emit the second sound. Likewise if the doorbell system determines that the visitation time of the visitor is within the third timeframe the doorbell may emit the third sound.

For example the first timeframe might include overnight and morning hours when the resident is either sleeping or getting ready for work. The first sound may thereby inform a visitor that the resident is busy and that the visitor should come back another time. As well the second timeframe might include daytime hours when the resident is away at work. The second sound might include a message that the resident is not available and that the visitor can reach the resident at work or on the resident s smart phone if the visitor is a known or trusted visitor. Finally the third timeframe might include a time during evening hours when the resident is home from work. The third sound may thereby inform the visitor that the resident will answer the door shortly. Generally it should be appreciated that the doorbell system may be configured to accommodate any timeframe or number of timeframes. As well the doorbell system may be configured to receive and thereby emit any sound in response to any of the respective timeframes.

With reference to the doorbell system may be configured to receive any number of custom messages and then emit respective messages in response to the doorbell system e.g. the doorbell detecting an indication of a presence of any number of respective visitors. The doorbell may emit a first custom audible message with a speaker in response to the doorbell system detecting an indication of a presence of a first visitor at step . As well the doorbell may emit a second custom audible message with the speaker in response to the doorbell system detecting an indication of a presence of a second visitor at step . Likewise the doorbell may emit a third custom audible message with the speaker in response to the doorbell system detecting an indication of a presence of a third visitor at step .

The first second and third custom audible messages can be assigned to specific visitors or groups of visitors. For example the first custom audible message may be assigned to a specific first visitor. As well the first custom audible message may be assigned to a specific group or type of visitor such as any known visitor.

As shown in the doorbell system may be referred to as a first doorbell system that is attached to a first building . The first doorbell system may be communicatively coupled to a second doorbell system that is attached to an exterior of a second building that is remotely located with respect to the first building . Accordingly the first doorbell may also be communicatively coupled to the second doorbell . Thereby the first doorbell system may detect an indication of a presence of a first visitor by receiving a first notification from the second doorbell system at step . As well the first doorbell system may detect an indication of a presence of a second visitor by receiving a second notification from the second doorbell system at step . In this manner the first doorbell system and the second doorbell system may be networked. This may allow doorbell systems that are located within a specific area such as a neighborhood to communicate and transmit data to each other. The network of doorbell systems may exchange information and or data to thereby monitor the entire neighborhood.

Chimes shown in FIGS. and can include all of the features assemblies parts systems and components of any doorbell described herein or incorporated by reference. Chimes can include all the items shown in .

Referring now to a user can use the remote computing device to select a sound emitted by the chime located inside the building or silence the chime located inside the building. Several embodiments include many different sounds that the chime can emit when someone rings the doorbell or is detected by the doorbell .

As illustrated in the chime may receive backup or primary power from a power source of a building and or a battery located within the chime. As well the chime may include various components to detect different events within the vicinity of the chime . For example embodiments may include a motion detector configurable to detect motion along an inside portion of the building . The chime may also include a camera assembly configurable to capture an image along the inside portion of the building . As well the chime may include a speaker configurable to emit sounds and a microphone configurable to receive an audible message spoken by a user.

Even still in embodiments the chime may include additional components including but not limited to a thermometer configurable to determine temperature along the inside portion of the building and a humidity sensor configurable to determine humidity along the inside portion of the building . The chime may include a detection system that may include miscellaneous detection components to monitor and detect various other events. As well the chime may include a communication system configurable to communicatively couple the chime to the doorbell the remote computing device and or any other communication device. The communication system may communicate via WiFi Bluetooth Bluetooth Low Energy Thread ZigBee and the like. It should be appreciated that the chime may utilize none some or all the same components as utilized by the doorbell .

A user can select a sound to be emitted by the chime on her remote computing device by using a control application . The remote computing device can then send the sound to the chime via the doorbell and or via a server and a wireless network . The sound can be a song a greeting recorded by the user or any other type of sound. Some embodiments include using a remote computing device to download a sound from the Internet sending the sound or data associated with the sound to the doorbell e.g. in response to using the remote computing device to select the sound sending the sound or data associated with the sound from the doorbell to the chime and or emitting the sound from the chime .

As shown in the chime can include an electrical plug . The plug can be mechanically and electrically coupled to a power outlet as shown in .

As illustrated in the doorbell can serve as a communication bridge between the remote computing device and the chime . The doorbell can be used to enable the remote computing device to control the chime . A user can select an option e.g. a song or a chime setting on the remote computing device then the system can send information regarding the option to and or from the computing device . Then the system can send information regarding the option from the doorbell to the chime in response to the user selecting the option via the remote computing device . The communication between the computing device and the doorbell can be wireless. The communication between the doorbell and the chime can be wireless.

As illustrated in the chime can serve as a communication bridge between the remote computing device and the doorbell . This can be especially helpful when the doorbell cannot access the wireless network of the building to which the doorbell is mechanically and or electrically coupled. The chime can be located inside the building and thus is more likely to access the wireless network of the building due to a superior signal strength of the wireless network at the chime compared to the signal strength at the doorbell which can be located much farther from a router of the wireless network . Some embodiments include configuring the chime to serve as a communication bridge between the remote computing device and the doorbell in response to a first wireless signal strength of the wireless network at a first location of the chime being greater than a second wireless signal strength of the wireless network at a second location of the doorbell .

As well illustrates embodiments of the chime that include at least one plug that may be electrically and or communicatively coupled to a power outlet . The one plug can thereby electrically and or communicatively couple the doorbell to the wires of the power outlet .

The system can be configured to communicate in various manners. In some embodiments the remote computing device communicates directly with the doorbell while the doorbell communicates directly with the chime . In some embodiments the remote computing device communicates directly with the chime while the doorbell communicates directly with the chime. Generally it should be understood that the system can be configured in any manner by the user.

According to various embodiments the doorbell system can emit sounds from a chime . As illustrated in the method can include selecting the sound by a remote computing device at step . For example the remote computing device can allow a user to select the sound by toggling a radio button not shown as displayed on a screen of the remote computing device . In some examples the user can select the sound by selecting a song or any type of audio file from a database such as a music database e.g. iTunes that is accessible through the remote computing device . In some embodiments the remote computing device can be a server a communication device with a user interface e.g. smart phone tablet etc. and the like.

With continued reference to methods can also include sending a data file which can include a first data file and or a second data file to a doorbell that is communicatively coupled to the remote computing device at step . The data file can include information that can represent the sound. The data file can be sent by the remote computing device to the server to the doorbell . However in some embodiments the data file can be sent by the remote computing device to the doorbell . As shown in the remote computing device can instruct the server via a wireless communication including a signal to send the data file to the doorbell .

As well methods can include the doorbell sending the data file to the chime that is communicatively coupled to the doorbell and remotely located with respect to the doorbell at step . In embodiments the data file is transmitted wirelessly to the chime . As well in embodiments the data file is transmitted via a wire such as wire as shown in . In this manner the data file is transmitted via a sound file communication .

There are various ways that the chime can receive the data file . In some methods the data file can be downloaded from a web server by at least one of the doorbell and the chime. Even still in some embodiments the remote computing device can download the data file from the web server.

Methods can also include emitting the sound from a speaker of the chime at least partially in response to the chime receiving the data file and at least partially in response to the doorbell detecting an indication of a presence of a visitor. In this manner when a visitor visits the building the doorbell system can alert the user by playing any type of customized or prerecorded sound through the speaker of the chime .

As well users of the doorbell system may configure the system to emit the sound in accordance with certain parameters such as sound emission parameters. Accordingly methods may include receiving by the doorbell a sound emission parameter from the remote computing device . Methods may also include emitting the sound from a speaker of the chime in response to the doorbell system determining that the sound emission parameter has been met. In some embodiments the sound emission parameters may comprise predetermined timeframes. For example the user may elect a sound emission parameter such as a do not disturb parameter so that the chime does not emit the sound during predetermined hours of the day. As well in embodiments the sound emission parameters may comprise specific visitors. For example if an unknown visitor or unwelcome visitor e.g. a door to door salesperson visits the building the sound emission parameters can instruct the chime not to emit the sound when the doorbell system detects the presence of the unknown or unwelcome visitor.

The chime may also be configured to emit an audible message from a speaker of the chime . The audible message may be a message that is spoken by a user and recorded by the doorbell the remote computing device and or the chime itself. In embodiments a user of the system may wish to transmit an audible message through the chime . For example a first resident may speak an audible message such as Honey I ll be home in 30 minutes into his her remote computing device . Accordingly the system may emit the audible message from the chime . Furthermore in embodiments the first resident my type a message into his her remote computing device and the system may thereby announce an audible message that comprises the contents of the typed message.

The chime may also be used to detect motion and capture audio and video recordings along an inside portion of a building . Specifically the method may include the motion detector of the chime detecting a first motion within the inside portion of the building . Methods may also include initiating a first communication session with the remote computing device in response to the motion detector of the chime detecting the first motion. The first communication session may include a first notification of the first motion detected by the motion detector of the chime. For example the chime may detect a prowler within the inside portion of the building and the system may thereby send an alert to the remote computing device of the user.

In embodiments the method may also include the motion detector of the chime detecting a second motion within an inside portion of the building . It should be appreciated that the second motion may be different from the first motion or the same. The system may thereby initiate a second communication session with a second remote computing device in response to the motion detector of the chime detecting the second motion. The second communication session can comprise a second notification of the second motion detected by the chime . In this regard the first remote computing device may not receive the second communication session. Accordingly the system can be configured to alert different users based on different motions within the building . For example the chime may detect suspicious motions and thereby alert the police. In some examples the chime may detect non suspicious motions within the building such as the dog walking around whereupon an alert is sent to the remote computing device of the resident.

As well methods may include selecting more than one sound and sending the more than one sound to the chime . For example methods may include selecting a second sound by the remote computing device and thereby sending a second data file comprising second information to the doorbell . The second information may represent the second sound. As well methods may include sending the second data file to the chime .

In embodiments the chime may be configured to emit different sounds in response to different motions detected by the motion detector of the doorbell along an outside portion of the building . For example methods may include detecting a first motion by a motion detector of the doorbell along the outside portion of the building . In response to the doorbell detecting the first motion the chime may thereby emit the first sound from a speaker of the chime . As well the motion detector of the doorbell may detect a second motion along the outside portion of the building . It should be appreciated that the second motion may be different from the first motion or the same. Accordingly methods may include emitting the second sound from the speaker of the chime in response to the doorbell detecting the second motion. In this manner the chime may be configured to audibly alert people within the building as to whether various motions have been detected by the doorbell . In embodiments the chime may emit an audible alarm if the doorbell detects a suspicious motion. In embodiments the chime may emit a more friendly sound e.g. ding dong if the doorbell detects a non suspicious motion.

As illustrated in this disclosure also includes a method of using a doorbell system to emit a sound from a chime . The method may include selecting a sound by a remote computing device at step and sending a data file comprising information to the chime at step . It should be appreciated that the information may represent the sound. As well the data file may be sent to the chime by the remote computing device and or the server . Furthermore methods may include detecting an indication of a presence of a visitor with a doorbell at step and emitting the sound from a speaker of the chime in response to detecting the indication of the presence of the visitor at step .

In addition to detecting motion the chime and or the doorbell may also capture audio images and or video. For example as shown in in response to detecting a motion with the motion detector of the chime methods may include using the camera of the chime to capture an image and or video within the inside portion of the building . It should be appreciated that the image and or video may correspond to the motion detected by the chime . The image and or video may thereby be sent to the doorbell and or the remote computing device where the image and or video can be viewed via a control application viewed on a display of the computing device .

As well the method may use a microphone of the chime to detect and record audio within the inside portion of the building . The audio recording may thereby be transmitted to the doorbell and or the remote computing device where it can be played back.

As well the system may be configured to respond in other various ways in response to detecting a motion. For instance in embodiments in response to detecting a motion with the motion detector of the chime the doorbell may flash a light to thereby indicate to people passing by the building that there is an event underway at the building . This may serve useful to personnel e.g. law enforcement to thereby determine the exact location of the building .

The chime may be configured to emit any various type of sound in response to any of the previously mentioned components detecting various events. In embodiments the chime may emit a first sound in response to the doorbell detecting an indication of a presence of a visitor. As well the chime may emit a second sound in response to the motion detector detecting motion along the inside portion of the building . Furthermore if thermometer detects that the temperature has exceeded a predetermined threshold the chime may emit a third sound such as an announcement of the temperature as detected by the thermometer . Even still the chime may be configured to emit a fourth sound in response to the humidity sensor detecting that a predetermined humidity has been met.

As illustrated in the disclosure also includes methods of identifying visitors and emitting different sounds according to the visitor detected. For example methods may include recognizing by a doorbell a first visitor at step . The method may include emitting the first sound from the chime in response to recognizing the first visitor at step . As well the method may include emitting a second sound from the chime in response to not recognizing by the doorbell a second visitor at step . It should be appreciated that the first sound and the second sounds can be different or the same.

In order to detect the visitor methods may include recognizing the first visitor and or the second visitor by detecting various traits such as a physical trait of the respective visitor. Physical traits can include traits such as a fingerprint gait body type height silhouette traits silhouette volume silhouette dimensions other physical characteristics and the like. As well the system may be configured to recognize the first visitor and or the second visitor by the doorbell detecting a trait of an electronic device in the possession of the first visitor and or the second visitor. For example the system may be configured to detect a first remote computing device associated with the first visitor and or a second remote computing device associated with the second visitor. In response to detecting a visitor by physical traits and or electronic traits the chime may emit a sound associated with the particular visitor.

The following patent applications which are incorporated by reference herein describe additional embodiments of recognizing visitors U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 62 135 133 filed Mar. 18 2015 and entitled DOORBELL COMMUNICATION SYSTEMS AND METHODS U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 62 016 050 filed Jun. 23 2014 and entitled IDENTITY VERIFICATION USING A SOCIAL NETWORK U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 62 016 053 filed Jun. 23 2014 and entitled IDENTITY VERIFICATION USING A SOCIAL NETWORK AND A NAME OF A VISITOR and U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 62 016 057 filed Jun. 23 2014 and entitled IDENTITY VERIFICATION OF FREQUENT AND NON FREQUENT VISITORS.

In addition to the doorbell system being configured to be electrically and communicatively coupled via any wireless communication standard the doorbell system may also be electrically and communicatively coupled via any type of wired communication standard e.g. wires . In embodiments the wires may be the copper wires of the building .

As shown in the doorbell system may be coupled to a doorbell power supply of a building . Accordingly the doorbell system may include a first wire that may electrically couple the doorbell to the power supply of the building . As well the doorbell system may include a second wire that may electrically and or communicatively couple the chime to the doorbell . As well the doorbell system may include a third wire that may electrically couple the chime to the power supply to form a circuit comprising the first wire the doorbell the second wire the chime the third wire and the power supply .

Because the doorbell may be communicatively coupled to the chime via the second wire the chime may be configured to receive a first data file from the doorbell via the second wire . As well the doorbell system may include a sound file communication that may be sent from the doorbell to the chime via the second wire . In some embodiments the sound file communication may comprise at least one thousand bytes. As well in embodiments the sound file communication may comprise less than one thousand bytes. It should also be appreciated that the second wire may enable two way communication from the doorbell to the chime and or from the chime to the doorbell .

In embodiments the first data file may comprise commands to perform various operations or put the doorbell system into various settings. For example the first data file may comprise a command configured to place the chime into silent mode such that the chime does not emit a sound. Likewise the first data file may comprise a command configured to adjust a volume setting of the chime . Even still the first data file may comprise a command configured to adjust a duration of a notification sound emitted by the chime . Generally it should be appreciated that the first data file may command the chime to perform any such operation.

Even still the data file may comprise data gathered by the doorbell system such as a video recorded by the doorbell . Accordingly the data file may include information regarding an event that occurred outside the chime such as the presence of a prowler or an image of an object associated with a motion detected by the system . In this regard the data file may comprise identifying information regarding the person and or object detected by the chime . For example the doorbell and or chime may detect a person located outside or inside the building . The chime may then receive the data file that comprises the identity of the person as detected by the doorbell and or chime . As well the doorbell may wirelessly receive the first data file from the remote computing device . In this manner the doorbell may receive various files such as audio and an image and or video as recorded by the chime via the first wire. It should also be appreciated that the chime may receive the various files from the doorbell and or the remote computing device .

As illustrated in the disclosure also includes a method of electrically coupling a doorbell system to a doorbell power supply of a building . The method may include coupling a doorbell to a remote chime via a first wire at step . As well the method may include receiving by the doorbell a first data file comprising information at step . As further shown in the method may include sending a second data file comprising the information from the doorbell to the remote chime via the first wire at step .

The information may represent a sound that was unknown to the chime prior to receiving the second data file. In this regard the method may include emitting the sound from the chime at least partially in response to receiving the second data file. In this regard the method may include the chime using the second data file to emit a sound. In some embodiments the second data file may comprise at least one thousand bytes. As well in embodiments the second data file may comprise less than one thousand bytes.

As well the method may include emitting the sound from the chime at least partially in response to the chime receiving a sound emission parameter from the doorbell and or the remote computing device . For example the chime may receive a sound emission parameter to only emit the sound between the hours of 9 am and 9 pm. Accordingly if the system detects a presence of a visitor between 9 am and 9 pm and in response to the chime having received the data file the chime may emit a sound in response to the doorbell system having determined that the sound emission parameter has been met.

In embodiments the chime can serve as the communication hub that links the doorbell to the remote computing device and vice versa. The chime can be configured as the communication hub for a variety of reasons. For example in certain situations the doorbell system can be configured to detect whether the doorbell comprises inadequate wireless performance to communicate with a remote computing device via at least one of the wireless network and a cellular network. Accordingly when the doorbell receives inadequate wireless performance the doorbell can thereby communicate with the chime which in turn communicates with the remote computing device to thereby communicatively couple the doorbell to the remote computing device .

Accordingly and as illustrated in methods of using the doorbell system can include coupling communicatively the chime to a wireless network of the building at step . The chime can thereby be communicatively coupled to the doorbell and to a remote computing device at step .

In embodiments the doorbell system can be used to detect an indication of a presence of a visitor and thereby transmit the indication from the doorbell to the remote computing device via the chime . The presence of the visitor can be detected via a variety of indications. For example methods can include detecting by the doorbell a trigger of a button of the doorbell at step .

As further illustrated in methods can also include sending an alert such as a visitor alert from the doorbell to the chime and thereby sending the visitor alert from the chime to the remote computing device at step . In this manner the chime can communicatively couple the doorbell to the remote computing device . As such the chime can serve as the hub that communicatively couples the doorbell to the remote computing device . In some embodiments the visitor alert can be transmitted via the data file first data file second data file and or the data file .

Accordingly the visitor alert can be sent from the doorbell to the chime and or the remote computing device by a variety of methods. For example in some embodiments the doorbell can be communicatively coupled to the chime via a wire a wireless network of the building and or a cellular network. As well the chime can be communicatively coupled to the remote computing device via the wireless network of the building and or a cellular network. Methods can thereby include sending the visitor alert from the doorbell to the chime via any combination of transmission systems including the wire wireless network of the building and or cellular network at step . As well methods can include sending the visitor alert from the chime to the remote computing device via any combination including the wireless network of the building and or cellular network at step .

In some situations the doorbell may receive a wireless signal but the wireless signal may be inadequate to transmit specific communications from the doorbell to the remote computing device . In these situations the chime may serve as the communication hub between the doorbell and the remote computing device . Accordingly methods may include sending the visitor alert from the chime to the remote computing device in response to the doorbell system detecting that the doorbell comprises inadequate wireless performance to send the visitor alert to the remote computing device via at least one of the wireless network and a cellular network at step . Described differently some methods can include sending the visitor alert from the chime to the remote computing device in response to the doorbell system detecting that a wireless signal of the doorbell is below a threshold at step .

The doorbell remote computing device and the chime may be located in different locations with respect to each other. For example the doorbell may be located outside of the building the chime may be located inside the building and the remote computing device can be remotely located with respect to the building . As illustrated in methods may include sending the visitor alert from the doorbell to the chime while the doorbell is located outside the building and while the chime is located inside the building at step . As well methods may include sending the visitor alert from the chime to the remote computing device that may be located inside or outside of the building .

The visitor alert can take various forms that alert a user that a visitor is present at the doorbell or that a visitor has left a message for the user via the doorbell . In this regard the visitor alert can comprise a video an image a sound a text message an email a phone call and the like. With reference to methods can include capturing the video and or image via a camera assembly of the doorbell at step . As well in embodiments where the visitor alert comprises a sound methods can include recording the sound with a microphone of the doorbell . Methods can even include the visitor making a phone call through the doorbell to the remote computing device whereby the chime communicatively couples the doorbell to the remote computing device to enable the phone call.

Upon the doorbell capturing video images sounds and the like the doorbell system can thereby include various communications between the doorbell and the chime and between the chime and the remote computing device . For example the doorbell system can include a first communication from the doorbell to the chime . The first communication can include a video and or image taken by a camera of the doorbell . Accordingly the doorbell system can include a second communication from the chime to the remote computing device . The second communication can also comprise the video.

Even still the chime can be communicatively coupled via the wireless network and or cellular network to other peripheral devices such as a door lock e.g. a smart door lock at step a remote sensor e.g. a fire alarm a smoke alarm a carbon monoxide detector and a burglar alarm at step and the like. In this regard the chime can serve as the communication hub not only between the doorbell and the remote computing device but also between the doorbell the remote computing device the door lock the remote sensor and any other peripheral device.

By configuring the chime as the communication hub between such devices the chime may be used to transmit and communicate messages and instructions between devices. For example a user may enter an instruction on a remote computing device to lock a front door lock. The instruction may then be sent from the remote computing device to the chime whereby the chime sends the instruction to the front door lock to move to a locked position. In response the front door lock may lock the front door.

In another example the chime may detect an indication of an adverse event and or receive the indication of the adverse event from the remote sensor. The adverse event can comprise various events such as a motion breaking glass fire a fire alarm sound smoke and the like. Accordingly methods can include directly detecting an adverse event with the chime at step such as detecting the sound of glass breaking via a microphone of the chime . As well methods can include the chime receiving an indication of the adverse event from the remote sensor that is communicatively coupled to the chime whereby the remote sensor is configured to detect adverse events. As illustrated in methods can include sending an alert of the adverse event e.g. an adverse event alert to the remote computing device in response to detecting the adverse event at step . As should be appreciated the adverse event alert can comprise a notification of the adverse event to thereby put the user on notice of the adverse event.

The chime can be configured to communicate with other devices such as the remote computing device remote sensors and the like via any wireless personal area network. For example the chime can be configured to communicate via Bluetooth Bluetooth low energy and the like. In this manner the chime can communicate with Bluetooth low energy tags.

In various embodiments the chime may include a light configurable to illuminate an area or provide ambient lighting for comfort such as a nightlight. The light may comprise the diagnostic light the power indicator light and or any other light electrically coupled to the chime . As well the light may be activated by various means such as in response to an audible message from a user e.g. Max turn on the light . Even still the light may be configurable to activate in response to external conditions such as darkness of an adjacent area much like a nightlight.

Referring now to a system can include a remote sensor that is located outside of the doorbell outside of the chime and outside of the remote computing device . The remote sensor can be located inside or outside of the building . The remote sensor can include a speaker that can emit sounds e.g. alarm sounds . A microphone shown in of the chime can detect e.g. hear the sounds . Then the chime can send a notification to the remote computing device in response to detecting the sounds and or in response to receiving a wireless communication from the remote sensor .

Remote sensors can include a fire alarm a smoke alarm a carbon monoxide detector a motion sensor a glass break sensor and a burglar alarm. For example the chime can listen for a smoke alarm. Then the chime can send a notification to the remote computing device in response to hearing the alarm sound of the smoke alarm.

Some embodiments include sending a second alert from the chime to the remote computing device in response to receiving by the chime a communication from the remote sensor . Several embodiments include coupling communicatively the chime to a remote sensor . The remote sensor can comprise at least one of a fire detector a smoke detector and a carbon monoxide detector. Embodiments can also include sending a second alert from the chime to the remote computing device in response to receiving by the chime a communication from the remote sensor .

Several embodiments comprise detecting by a microphone shown in of the chime an alarm sound emitted by a remote sensor and then sending a second alert from the chime to the remote computing device in response to detecting the alarm sound. Some embodiments include detecting by a microphone of the chime an alarm sound emitted by a remote smoke detector e.g. and then sending a second alert from the chime to the remote computing device in response to detecting the alarm sound. Several embodiments include detecting by a microphone of the chime an alarm sound emitted by a remote motion sensor device e.g. and then sending a second alert from the chime to the remote computing device in response to detecting the alarm sound.

Burglars often break glass windows and glass doors to enter homes and other buildings. Some embodiments include detecting by a microphone of the chime glass breaking and then sending a second alert from the chime to the remote computing device in response to detecting the glass breaking.

Some systems include a remote sensor having at least one of a fire detector a smoke detector a carbon monoxide detector a motion detector and a glass break detector. The remote sensor can be communicatively coupled to the chime e.g. via wireless communication . Systems can include a third communication from the remote sensor to the chime .

Several systems include a chime that has a microphone shown in . Systems can also include a remote sensor an alarm sound emitted by the remote sensor and a third communication sent from the chime to the remote computing device in response to the microphone of the chime detecting the alarm sound .

None of the steps described herein is essential or indispensable. Any of the steps can be adjusted or modified. Other or additional steps can be used. Any portion of any of the steps processes structures and or devices disclosed or illustrated in one embodiment flowchart or example in this specification can be combined or used with or instead of any other portion of any of the steps processes structures and or devices disclosed or illustrated in a different embodiment flowchart or example. The embodiments and examples provided herein are not intended to be discrete and separate from each other.

The section headings and subheadings provided herein are nonlimiting. The section headings and subheadings do not represent or limit the full scope of the embodiments described in the sections to which the headings and subheadings pertain. For example a section titled Topic 1 may include embodiments that do not pertain to Topic 1 and embodiments described in other sections may apply to and be combined with embodiments described within the Topic 1 section.

Some of the devices systems embodiments and processes use computers. Each of the routines processes methods and algorithms described in the preceding sections may be embodied in and fully or partially automated by code modules executed by one or more computers computer processors or machines configured to execute computer instructions. The code modules may be stored on any type of non transitory computer readable storage medium or tangible computer storage device such as hard drives solid state memory flash memory optical disc and or the like. The processes and algorithms may be implemented partially or wholly in application specific circuitry. The results of the disclosed processes and process steps may be stored persistently or otherwise in any type of non transitory computer storage such as e.g. volatile or non volatile storage.

The various features and processes described above may be used independently of one another or may be combined in various ways. All possible combinations and subcombinations are intended to fall within the scope of this disclosure. In addition certain method event state or process blocks may be omitted in some implementations. The methods steps and processes described herein are also not limited to any particular sequence and the blocks steps or states relating thereto can be performed in other sequences that are appropriate. For example described tasks or events may be performed in an order other than the order specifically disclosed. Multiple steps may be combined in a single block or state. The example tasks or events may be performed in serial in parallel or in some other manner. Tasks or events may be added to or removed from the disclosed example embodiments. The example systems and components described herein may be configured differently than described. For example elements may be added to removed from or rearranged compared to the disclosed example embodiments.

Conditional language used herein such as among others can could might may e.g. and the like unless specifically stated otherwise or otherwise understood within the context as used is generally intended to convey that certain embodiments include while other embodiments do not include certain features elements and or steps. Thus such conditional language is not generally intended to imply that features elements and or steps are in any way required for one or more embodiments or that one or more embodiments necessarily include logic for deciding with or without author input or prompting whether these features elements and or steps are included or are to be performed in any particular embodiment. The terms comprising including having and the like are synonymous and are used inclusively in an open ended fashion and do not exclude additional elements features acts operations and so forth. Also the term or is used in its inclusive sense and not in its exclusive sense so that when used for example to connect a list of elements the term or means one some or all of the elements in the list. Conjunctive language such as the phrase at least one of X Y and Z unless specifically stated otherwise is otherwise understood with the context as used in general to convey that an item term etc. may be either X Y or Z. Thus such conjunctive language is not generally intended to imply that certain embodiments require at least one of X at least one of Y and at least one of Z to each be present.

The term and or means that and applies to some embodiments and or applies to some embodiments. Thus A B and or C can be replaced with A B and C written in one sentence and A B or C written in another sentence. A B and or C means that some embodiments can include A and B some embodiments can include A and C some embodiments can include B and C some embodiments can only include A some embodiments can include only B some embodiments can include only C and some embodiments include A B and C. The term and or is used to avoid unnecessary redundancy.

While certain example embodiments have been described these embodiments have been presented by way of example only and are not intended to limit the scope of the inventions disclosed herein. Thus nothing in the foregoing description is intended to imply that any particular feature characteristic step module or block is necessary or indispensable. Indeed the novel methods and systems described herein may be embodied in a variety of other forms furthermore various omissions substitutions and changes in the form of the methods and systems described herein may be made without departing from the spirit of the inventions disclosed herein.

