---

title: Video call method in packet-switched network and device supporting the same
abstract: An electronic device including a communication module configured to connect a packet based video call to a user equipment, an image processing module configured to generate a transmission image for the video call, and a control module configured to control a frame type of a transmission image generated by the image processing module based on tune-away information received from the user equipment.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09544536&OS=09544536&RS=09544536
owner: Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.
number: 09544536
owner_city: Suwon-Si
owner_country: KR
publication_date: 20151125
---
This application claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. 119 a of a Korean patent application filed on Nov. 25 2014 in the Korean Intellectual Property Office and assigned Serial number 10 2014 0165531 the entire disclosure of which is hereby incorporated by reference.

The present disclosure relates to video call quality between terminals using a Packet Switched PS network and more particularly to alleviating video degradation during a video call.

Unlike a Circuit Switched CS 2G or 3G network Long Term Evolution LTE post 4G communication protocol supports PS network. However even with LTE voice calls can still use 3G networks. For example if a voice call is received while a User Equipment UE is accessing a 4G network a Circuit Switched Fall Back CSFB technique will disconnect from the 4G network and connect to a 3G network.

Additionally Voice over LTE VoLTE supports high quality voice calls in a broader bandwidth of LTE and VoLTE based video calls with high definition HD video quality 1280 720 pixels 30 fps is also supported. The HD video quality is better than the quality in an existing CS video call for example Common Intermediate Format CIF 353 288 pixels 15 fps .

The CSFB technique is a method of making voice calls where a mobile communication carrier inserts CS call paging information between LTE signals in a core network and provides it to a UE. However with Single Radio LTE SRLTE UE when the UE checks 3G network for CS paging information tune away the SRLTE UE must stop communicating on the LTE network. Accordingly LTE data throughput may deteriorate during the tune away periods on an SRLTE UE.

According to the 3rd Generation Partnership Project 3GPP TS 44.018 specifications a CS paging period may have a minimum time of 470 ms and a maximum time of 2.12 s. The CS paging period is determined by the parameter BS PA FRMS set in each CELL. In each CS paging period the LTE connection is disconnected from about 15 ms to about 30 ms to tune away for the UE to receive and parse a paging message. That is in the case of a terminal supporting a SRLTE method during a video call using VoLTE the video quality may deteriorate due to the 15 30 ms tune away every 470 ms 2.12 s.

Accordingly an aspect of the present disclosure is to provide a method and device for providing a video call between terminals with compensation for data throughput deterioration occurring due to tune away to minimize video quality deterioration.

In accordance with an aspect of the present disclosure an electronic device may include a communication module configured to connect a packet based video call to a user equipment an image processing module configured to generate a transmission image for the video call and a control module configured to control a frame type of the transmission image generated by the image processing module based on tune away information received from the user equipment.

Hereinafter various embodiments of the present disclosure are disclosed with reference to the accompanying drawings. However this does not limit various embodiments of the present disclosure to a specific embodiment and it should be understood that the present disclosure covers all modifications equivalents and or alternatives of this disclosure provided they come within the scope of the appended claims and their equivalents. With respect to the descriptions of the drawings like reference numerals refer to like elements.

Each term include comprise have may include may comprise or may have used herein indicates disclosed functions operations or existence of elements but does not exclude other functions operations or elements.

Generally the phrase A and or B indicates choice of selecting just A just B or both A and B. Similarly the phrase A B and or C indicates a choice of selecting any combination of A B and C starting with just A just B just C . . . to A and B and C.

Terms such as 1st 2nd first second and the like used herein may refer to modifying various different elements of various embodiments of the present disclosure but do not limit the elements. For instance a first user device and a second user device may indicate different user devices and not necessarily the order or the importance.

In various embodiments of the present disclosure it will be understood that when a component for example a first component is referred to as being operatively or communicatively coupled with to or connected to another component for example a second component the component may be directly connected to the other component or connected through another component for example a third component . In various embodiments of the present disclosure it will be understood that when a component for example a first component is referred to as being directly connected to or directly access another component for example a second component another component for example a third component does not exist between the component for example the first component and the other component for example the second component .

The expression configured to as used in this disclosure may be interchangeably used with suitable for having the capacity to designed to adapted to made to or capable of according to a situation. The expression a device configured to perform XYZ in some situations may mean that the device is capable of performing XYZ .

Various terms used in the present disclosure are used to describe some embodiments of the present disclosure and are not intended to limit the scope of other embodiments. Terms of a singular form may include plural forms unless they have a clearly different meaning in the context or are specifically limited to the singular meaning. Unless indicated otherwise herein all terms used herein which include technical or scientific terms have the same meaning that is generally understood by a person skilled in the art. In general terms defined in the dictionary should be considered to have the same meaning as the contextual meaning of the related art and unless clearly defined herein should not be understood abnormally or as having an excessively formal meaning. In any cases terms defined in this specification do not exclude any embodiment of the present disclosure unless specifically stated so.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure an electronic device may be for example a smartphone a tablet personal computer PC a mobile phone a video phone an electronic book e book reader a desktop personal computer PC a laptop personal computer PC a netbook computer a workstation server a personal digital assistant PDA a portable multimedia player PMP a MP3 player a mobile medical device a camera or any wearable device such as for example a smart glass a head mounted device HMDs an electronic apparel an electronic bracelet an electronic necklace an electronic appcessory an electronic tattoo a smart mirror or a smart watch.

According to some embodiments of the present disclosure an electronic device may be a smart home appliance. The smart home appliance may be for example a television a digital video disk DVD player an audio device a refrigerator an air conditioner a cleaner an oven a microwave oven a washing machine an air cleaner a set top box a home automation control panel a security control panel a TV box e.g. Samsung HomeSync Apple TV or Google TV a game console for example Xbox and PlayStation an electronic dictionary an electronic key a camcorder or an electronic picture frame.

According to some embodiments of the present disclosure an electronic device may be for example one of various measurement devices for example glucometers heart rate meters blood pressure meters temperature meters etc. magnetic resonance angiography MRA devices magnetic resonance imaging MRI devices computed tomography CT devices medical imaging devices ultrasonic devices etc. navigation devices global positioning system GPS receivers event data recorders EDRs flight data recorders FDRs vehicle infotainment devices marine electronic equipment for example marine navigation systems gyro compasses etc. avionics security equipment vehicle head units industrial or household robots financial institutions automatic teller machines ATMs a store s point of sales POS or internet of things for example bulbs various sensors electric or gas meters sprinkler systems fire alarms thermostats street lights toasters exercise equipment hot water tanks heaters boilers etc. .

In various embodiments of the present disclosure an electronic device may include at least one of part of furniture or buildings structures supporting call forwarding service electronic boards electronic signature receiving devices projectors and various instruments to measure for example water electricity gas or radio signals. An electronic device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure may be one of the above mentioned various devices or a combination thereof. Additionally an electronic device according to an embodiment of the present disclosure may be a flexible electronic device. Additionally an electronic device according to an embodiment of the present disclosure is not limited to the above mentioned devices and also may include a new kind of electronic device not yet developed.

Hereinafter an electronic device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure will be described in more detail with reference to the accompanying drawings. The term user in this disclosure may refer to a person using an electronic device or a device using an electronic device for example an artificial intelligent electronic device .

Referring to a first user equipment or UE and a second user equipment or UE may be performing a VoLTE based video call. Although an exemplary VoLTE based video call is shown in a video call in any manner using an LTE or PS system may correspond to a video call according to various embodiments of the present disclosure. For example it is understood that a video call for example FaceTime supported by a chatting application a social network application or a terminal itself may be one example of a VoLTE based video call shown in .

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the first user equipment and the second user equipment may be the same type of terminals or may be terminals supporting the same or compatible communication method. For example the user equipments and may support a SRLTE method. In another example the user equipments and may support Single Radio Dual Standby SRDS method. In general the user equipments and may be terminals that communicate by using an LTE network for example a PS domain and a 3G network or a network using a CS domain such as 2G network and GSM network and uses the tune away method to search for call paging of a CS domain. The present disclosure describes a terminal for supporting SRLTE and SRDS methods but this does not limit the range of this present disclosure. Each method will be described with reference to .

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure description for the first user equipment may be applied to the second user equipment . In the same manner description for the second user equipment may be applied to the first user equipment . For example in if the first user equipment performs an operation for checking CS call paging information using the tune away method the second user equipment operates in the same manner also. For example during a video call between the user equipments and the second user equipment may adjust a frame of a transmission image transmitted for a video call based on tune away information received from the first user equipment . Similarly the first user equipment in a video call with the second user equipment may control a provided image frame based on tune away information from the second user equipment . Hereinafter operations of the second user equipment will be described with reference to .

Referring to the second user equipment may be similar to the second user equipment shown in and may include an antenna a communication module a capture module an image processing module a control module and a memory . Hereinafter the second user equipment may be abbreviated simply as a terminal .

The communication module may communicate with another terminal via the antenna . For example the communication module may process signals received or transmitted through at least one antenna for example a main transmission reception antenna a diversity reception antenna and so on . The communication module may support a communication method such as 4G using PS domain for example LTE LTE A and so on and a 3G 2G communication method using CS domain for example GSM WCDMA and so on . Additionally the communication module for example may perform a tune away operation for obtaining CS call paging information. Additionally the communication module may receive information for example tune away start end average length expected end time and so on on a tune away operation performed by another terminal from that terminal and may transmit information on tune away performed by the terminal to that terminal.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the communication module may perform a video call for example a VoLTE based video call using PS domain with another terminal. The communication module may transmit the user s voice and image data packets of the terminal to the other terminal. Additionally the communication module may receive the other user s voice and image data packets from the other terminal.

The capture module may capture and or process user images for a video call. For example the capture module may include a front camera of the terminal and a processor for example an Image Signal Processor ISP for signal processing. The capture module may provide images obtained by the camera to the image processing module .

The image processing module may generate transmission images to be transmitted for a video call. For example the image processing module may determine the quality or size of a generated transmission image according to an image quality supported by the terminal or a receiving terminal for example the first user equipment and a network in use for example 4G network 3G network WiFi network and so on . In the case of a HD video call the image processing module may generate images with for example 1280 720 resolution.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the image processing module may determine the frame type of a generated image. For example an image processing module may configure an arbitrary group of pictures GOP for a video call. As is known the image processing module may generate a key frame which may also be referred to as an intra frame I frame . The I frame provides the best quality among frames described in this disclosure but requires the most number of bits per frame.

Another frame type may be a frame based on image information of a previous frame and may be referred to as a predicted frame P frame . A frame generated based on a previous frame and an after frame may be referred to as a bidirectional frame B frame . Accordingly the P frame and B frame refer to at least one other reference frame. Therefore in this disclosure the P frame and the B frame may be referred to as a referring frame .

The control module may control overall operation of the terminal . The control module may control the frame type of images generated by the image processing module based on tune away information from the other party s terminal received through the communication module . For example when information is received that the other party s terminal is starting to tune away the control module may allow the image processing module to generate transmission images in a P frame. This is just exemplary and is dependent upon a setting of the terminal or the type for example whether it is an SRLTE supporting terminal or an SRDS supporting terminal of the other party s terminal communicating with the terminal . The control module may determine the frame type of transmission images generated by the image processing module .

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the control module and the image processing module may be implemented in one processor or one System on Chip SoC or may be configured using an additional hardware module. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the SoC may include the above mentioned ISP.

Images obtained by the capture module or generated by the image processing module may be stored in the memory . The memory may comprise volatile and or non volatile memories. Additionally transmission images of the other party received by the communication module may be stored in the memory . The control module may decode images received from the other party and may output the decoded images on the display of the terminal .

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure instructions for performing several methods or operations described in this document may be stored in the memory . For example the memory may store instructions for receiving tune away information from the other party terminal and determining the frame type of transmission images transmitted to the other terminal based on the received tune away information. The terminal may also store instructions in the memory that may be executed by various modules in the terminal . For example the instructions may be executed to allow transmitting tune away information to the other party terminal in video call by using a PS system when the communication module performs a tune away operation for searching for CS paging information.

Hereinafter an operation for a terminal to provide tune away information will be described with reference to .

For reference shows a configuration of communication modules and a data throughput graph which are conceptually illustrated for convenience of description. Accordingly an actual device configuration may be different and the resulting data throughput graph may also be different.

Referring to an SRLTE terminal for example may include one transmission antenna Tx and two reception antennas Rx and Rx . In some embodiments of the present disclosure the SRLTE terminal may include one transmission reception antenna Tx Rx. According to various embodiments of the present disclosure in support of CS paging the terminal may tune away a reception antenna from the PS domain to the CS domain. For example the terminal may allow a reception antenna to be directed to a GSM network from a LTE network. The period of CS paging may be defined as 51 multi frame period BS PA MFRMS in accordance with 3GPP specifications. Herein the length of a 51 multi frame may be 235.4 ms and a BS PA MFRMS value may be provided from a communication carrier network. Typically BS PA MFRMS may have a value between 2 to 9. Accordingly the minimum value of CS paging period may be about 470 ms and the maximum value may be about 2.12 s.

Since data cannot be received from a LTE network when tune away occurs during a CS paging period data throughput may deteriorate. Referring to it can be seen in the SRLTE data throughput graph that there is no data throughput during tune away sections or period . A tune away period may vary even for a constant BS PA MFRMS value because it is possible to return to LTE immediately if there is no CS paging information. However if there is CS paging information then some time is required for processing the information received from the CS domain.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the terminal may transmit tune away information to the other party s terminal for example the terminal at the time that tune away starts. For example when tune away starts the terminal may transmit to the other party s terminal the tune away start information indicating start of tune away. According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the terminal may transmit information on the end expected time or average period of tune away along with the tune away start information. Additionally when tune away ends the terminal may transmit to the other party s terminal tune away end information indicating that tune away ended.

Referring to in the case of an SRDS type supporting terminal there is a difference in a CS paging operation and a data throughput in comparison to the SRLTE terminal . The terminal may not tune away all reception antennas at the same time and may perform an operation for receiving CS paging by using one antenna for example Rx . In this case while data throughput at the reception antenna Rx is maintained data throughput by the reception antenna Rx performing tune away may be deteriorated.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the SRLTE type terminal may not receive data from the PS domain during a tune away section but the SRDS type terminal may receive data from the PS domain. Accordingly when receiving tune away start information from the SRDS type terminal in a video call the terminal may transmit P frame images from a corresponding time point until tune away ends or an end expected time point . Therefore the SRDS type terminal may still receive a P frame image from the terminal so that it may maintain a video call seamlessly. When receiving tune away end information the terminal may generate I frames to transmit them to the terminal so that it may maintain the quality of a video call. According to various embodiments of the present disclosure when the terminal communicates with the SRLTE support terminal since the terminal cannot receive transmission images from the terminal during a tune away period the frame type of transmission images may be different from SRDS. Various embodiments of the present disclosure for determining the frame type of transmission images will be described later with reference to . Hereinafter an exemplary electronic device to which various embodiments of the present disclosure are applicable will be described with reference to .

Referring to an electronic device in a network environment is described according to various embodiments of the present disclosure. The electronic device may correspond to one of the above mentioned terminals or . The electronic device may include a bus a processor a memory an input output interface a display and a communication interface . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the electronic device may omit at least one of the components or may additionally include a different component. This may be done for example by combining functions of components or separating functions of a component. Additionally functions may be added or removed in an electronic device.

The bus for example may include a circuit for connecting the components to to each other and delivering a communication for example control message and or data therebetween.

The processor may include at least one of for example a central processing unit CPU an Application Processor AP and a communication processor CP . For example the processor may correspond at least to the control module of or may correspond to the control module the image processing module and other calculation devices of . Additionally the processor for example may execute calculation or data processing for control and or communication of at least one another component of the electronic device .

The memory may include volatile and or nonvolatile memory. The memory may correspond to the memory of for example. The memory may store instructions and or data relating to at least one another component of the electronic device . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the memory may store software and or program . The programs may include a kernel a middleware an application programming interface API and or an application program or an application . At least part of the kernel the middleware or the API may be called an operating system OS .

The kernel for example may control or manage system resources for example the bus the processor the memory and so on used for performing operations or functions implemented in other programs for example the middleware the API or the application program . Additionally the kernel may provide an interface for controlling or managing system resources by accessing an individual component of the electronic device from the middleware the API or the application program .

The middleware for example may serve an intermediary role for exchanging data as the API or the application program communicates with the kernel .

Additionally the middleware may process job request s received from the application program . For example the middleware may assign to at least one application program priority for using a system resource s for example the bus the processor and or the memory of the electronic device . For example the middleware may perform scheduling or load balancing according to the priority assigned to the job request s .

The API as an interface for allowing the application program to access functions in the kernel or the middleware may include at least one interface or function for example an instruction for file control window control image processing or character control.

The input output interface may serve as an interface for delivering instructions or data inputted from a user or another external device to another component s of the electronic device . Additionally the input output interface may output instructions or data received from another component s of the electronic device to a user or another external device.

The display may include for example a liquid crystal display LCD a light emitting diode LED display an organic light emitting diode OLED display a microelectromechanical systems MEMS display or an electronic paper display. The display may display various contents for example text image video icon symbol and so on to a user. The display may include for example a touch screen that can receive a touch gesture proximity or hovering input by using an electronic pen or a user s body part.

The communication interface may enable communication between the electronic device and an external device for example the first external electronic device the second external electronic device or the server . For example the communication interface may communicate with an external device via the network using wireless communication or wired communication.

The wireless communication may use at least one of for example LTE LTE A CDMA WCDMA UMTS WiBro and GSM as a cellular communication protocol. For example the communication interface may support at least one of a PS type network and a CS type network among the above mentioned communication methods. Additionally the wireless communication may include a short range communication . The short range communication may include at least one of for example wireless fidelity WiFi Bluetooth BT near field communication NFC global positioning system GPS and so on. The wired communication may include at least one of for example universal serial bus USB high definition multimedia interface HDMI recommended standard 832 RS 232 and plain old telephone service POTS . The network may include at least one communications network such as for example computer network for example LAN or WAN internet and telephone network.

Each of the first and second external electronic devices and may be the same or different type as the electronic device . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the server may include a group of one or more servers. According to various embodiments of the present disclosure all or part of operations executed on the electronic device may be executed on another one or more electronic devices for example the electronic device or or the server . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure when the electronic device performs a certain function or service automatically or by a request it may request at least part of a function relating thereto be executed on another device for example the electronic device or or the server instead of or in addition to executing the function or service by itself. The other electronic device for example the external electronic device or or the server may execute the requested function and or an additional function and may deliver an execution result to the electronic device . The electronic device may provide the requested function or service. Accordingly for example cloud computing distributed computing or client server computing technology may be used.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure an electronic device may include a communication module configured to connect a packet based video call to a user equipment an image processing module configured to generate a transmission image for the video call and a control module configured to control a frame type of a transmission image generated by the image processing module based on tune away information received from the user equipment.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the tune away information may include tune away start information of the user equipment and the control module generates a transmission image in predicted frame type from a time point of obtaining the start information.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the tune away information may include tune away end information of the user equipment and the control module may generate an image in key frame type to transmit the generated image to the user equipment when the end information is obtained. Additionally the control module may generate the image in key frame type when the expected end time elapses.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the tune away information may include information on a tune away average end time of the user equipment and the control module may generate the image in key frame type when the average end time elapses.

Additionally the control module may generate an image in a predicted frame type after generating the key frame type.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the tune away information may include tune away start information of the user equipment and information on the user equipment and when the user equipment is a Single Radio LTE SRLTE supporting terminal the control module may generate a transmission image in key frame type from a time point of obtaining the start information.

Additionally when receiving end information of the tune away from the user equipment the control module may generate a transmission image in key frame type to transmit the generated transmission image to the user equipment and generate a transmission image in a referring frame type after the transmission.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the tune away information may include the tune away start information of the user equipment and information on the user equipment and when the user equipment is a Single Radio Dual Standby SRDS supporting terminal the control module may generate a transmission image in referring frame type from a time point of obtaining the start information.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure when the user equipment is an SRDS supporting terminal if an expected end time of the tune away elapses or end information of the tune away is received the control module may generate a transmission image in key frame type to transmit the generated transmission image to the user equipment.

In operation an LTE based video call session may be established between the terminal and the terminal . The terminal and the terminal may continuously exchange voice and image data packets for a video call with each other.

In operation the terminal may start a tune away operation for receiving CS paging. Although it is shown in that the terminal performs a tune away operation both the terminal and the terminal may perform the tune away operation. For example if the terminal and the terminal are terminals supporting both SRLTE and SRDS they may perform a tune away operation. If the terminal is an SRLTE supporting terminal and the terminal is a terminal that does not require a tune away operation for example a dual radio LTE supporting terminal such as a Simultaneous Voice and LTE SVLTE terminal only the terminal performs a tune away operation and the terminal controls only the frame type of images transmitted to the terminal .

In operation with the start of a tune away operation for example at the same time or just before the start the terminal may transmit tune away start information to the terminal . According to various embodiments of the present disclosure in operation the terminal may transmit additional information for example information on a tune away expected end time point an average tune away period the minimum tune away period and so on together with tune away start information.

In operation when receiving tune away information the terminal may determine the frame type of transmission images to be transmitted to the terminal for the video call. For example when receiving information that tune away starts from the terminal the terminal may expect deterioration of data throughput of the terminal and may determine to encode transmission images with a predicted frame P frame of a relatively smaller number of bits.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the terminal may encode transmission images in a different method according to additional information or the type of the terminal . Each example will be described with reference to .

In operation a tune away operation performed in the terminal is terminated and it is possible to return to LTE network. In operation the terminal may transmit information that tune away ends to the terminal .

When receiving the information that the tune away of the terminal ends the terminal may generate transmission images in a key frame for example an I frame type and transmit them to the terminal in operation . Once key frames are generated and transmitted after tune away transmission images are generated through a general method for example referring frames are generated to configure a GOP after the key frames so that a video call may be continued.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure it may be assumed that a period of CS paging of the terminal is 940 ms tune away is 100 ms and the terminal and the terminal are in a HD quality video call with a resolution of 1280 720 the terminal and the terminal transmit receive images to from each other at 30 frame per sec fps . That is terminal may transmit data corresponding to 30 images per second to the terminal and it may take about 33 ms to transmit data corresponding to one image. When receiving tune away start information from the terminal the terminal may generate an image with P frame and transmit it to the terminal . Since tune away lasts about 100 ms until receiving a notification that tune away ends from the terminal the terminal may transmit three P frame images during the 100 ms. When receiving a tune away end notification the terminal may generate an image of I frame type to transmit it to the terminal immediately.

If the terminal is an SRDS supporting terminal even if the deterioration of data throughput occurs the terminal may maintain the quality of a video call continuously by using the P frame received from the terminal in a tune away section.

When the terminal is an SRLTE supporting terminal it may not receive images from the terminal during a tune away section. That is even when P frame and I frame are transmitted corresponding frame losses may occur. However according to various embodiments of the present disclosure the terminal may generate P frame to provide it to the terminal when receiving tune away start information and the terminal may receive P frame between a time point at which tune away ends actually and a time point at which tune away end information arrives at the terminal . For example in the above mentioned embodiment the first two of three P frame transmitted from the terminal may not be received by the terminal . The third P frame may be received by the terminal . The terminal may maintain the quality of a video call at a predetermined level by utilizing the received P frame based on I frames received before tune away. Furthermore the terminal may provide tune away end information to the terminal and the terminal may generate a new I frame immediately at a time point of receiving the tune away end information to transmit it to the terminal . The terminal may thereby maintain an original quality for the video call.

Referring to in operation the terminal may receive additional information such as tune away start information and tune away section information together from the terminal . For example the additional information may include the expected tune away end time point average tune away period and minimum tune away period of the terminal . According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the terminal may transmit tune away start information and average tune away period information together and the terminal may utilize the average tune away period as the expected end time point of the tune away.

In operation when receiving tune away information the terminal may encode transmission images as a referring frame for example P frame . In operation the terminal may determine whether an expected end time point elapses and may repeat operation until the expected end time point elapses.

In operation if the expected end time elapses the terminal may encode transmission images as key frames for example I frame . Accordingly the terminal may generate and transmit I frames even before receiving a tune away end notification from the terminal . The terminal may therefore receive I frames before notification of tune away end arrives at the terminal thereby maintaining the quality of a video call by using a key frame more quickly. According to various embodiments of the present disclosure in the case of a 30 fps transmission rate one or two I frames may be transmitted between an expected end time point and an actual end time point of tune away.

In operation the terminal may determine whether tune away end information is received from the terminal and if it is received may encode transmission images as I frames. The I frame images generated in operation may be lost if the data throughput of the terminal is not recovered but since the I frame corresponding to operation is the I frame transmitted after tune away ends it is transmitted to the terminal normally and used for a video call. After operation the terminal may maintain a video call continuously in a general method.

Referring to in operation the terminal may receive additional information such as tune away start information and tune away section information together from the terminal . In the embodiment of the additional information may include information on a communication method or a tune away method supported by the terminal . According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the terminal and the terminal may exchange such information with each other when setting up a video call session. This may happen for example in advance in operation of .

In operation the terminal may determine whether the other party terminal for example the terminal uses SRLTE method or SRDS method. The terminal may determine a communication method for example a tune away method of the other party terminal by using information obtained in advance or information received in operation . If the other party terminal uses the SRDS method the terminal may perform operation s A for example operations through of in this case operations and are performed by the terminal or operations through of .

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure if the terminal uses the SRLTE method even when the terminal generates an image with P frame and transmits it since the terminal cannot receive a corresponding image during a tune away section in order for I frame to be received as soon as the tune away of the terminal ends the terminal may generate an image with I frame and transmit it immediately in operation . For example the terminal may perform operation s B for example operations and of or operations and of .

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure a video call method may include connecting a packet based video call to a user equipment receiving tune away information from the user equipment and determining a frame type of a transmission image transmitted to the user equipment based on the received tune away information.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the receiving of the tune away information may include receiving tune away start information of the user equipment and the determining of the frame type may include determining a predicted frame type as a frame type of a transmission image when the tune away start information is received.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the receiving of the tune away information may include receiving tune away end information of the user equipment and the determining of the frame type may include determining a key frame type as a frame type of a transmission image when the tune away end information is received.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the receiving of the tune away information may include receiving information of a tune away expected end time of the user equipment and the determining of the frame type may include determining a key frame type as a frame type of a transmission image when the expected end time elapses.

Additionally the method may further include when the transmission image of the key frame type is generated after the end information is received generating the next image in predicted frame type.

Referring to an electronic device may configure all or part of the above mentioned electronic device shown in . The electronic device may include at least one processor for example an application processor AP a communication module a subscriber identification module SIM a memory a sensor module an input device a display an interface an audio module a camera module a power management module a battery an indicator and a motor .

The processor may control a plurality of hardware or software components connected thereto and also may perform various data processing and operations by executing an operating system or an application program. The processor may be implemented with a system on chip SoC for example. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the processor may further include a graphic processing unit GPU not shown and or an image signal processor not shown . The processor may include at least some for example the cellular module of components shown in . The processor may load commands or data received from for example a non volatile portion of the memory and process them and may store various data in a non volatile portion of the memory .

The communication module may be similar to the communication interface of . The communication module may include a cellular module a WiFi module a BT module a GPS module an NFC module and a radio frequency RF module .

The cellular module may provide for example voice call video call text service or internet service through a communication network such as the network . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the cellular module may perform a distinction and authentication operation on the electronic device in a communication network by using the SIM . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the cellular module may perform at least part of a function that the processor provides. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the cellular module may further include a communication processor CP not shown .

Each of the WiFi module the BT module the GPS module and the NFC module may include a processor for processing data transmitted received through a corresponding module. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure at least part for example at least one of the cellular module the WiFi module the BT module the GPS module and the NFC module may be included in one integrated chip IC or IC package.

The RF module may transmit receive communication signals such as for example RF signals. The RF module for example may include a transceiver a power amp module PAM a frequency filter a low noise amplifier LNA and or an antenna. According to another embodiment of the present disclosure at least one of the cellular module the WiFi module the Bluetooth module the GPS module and the NFC module may transmit receive RF signals through a separate RF module not shown .

The SIM may include for example a card including a SIM and or an embedded SIM and also may include unique identification information for example an integrated circuit card identifier ICCID or subscriber information for example an international mobile subscriber identity IMSI .

The memory for example the memory may include an internal memory and or an external memory . The internal memory may include at least one of a volatile memory for example dynamic RAM DRAM static RAM SRAM synchronous dynamic RAM SDRAM and a non volatile memory for example one time programmable ROM OTPROM programmable ROM PROM erasable and programmable ROM EPROM electrically erasable and programmable ROM EEPROM mask ROM flash ROM flash memory for example NAND flash memory or NOR flash memory hard drive or solid state drive SSD .

The external memory may include flash drive such as for example compact flash CF secure digital SD micro Micro SD Mini SD extreme digital xD MultiMediaCard MMC or a memorystick. The external memory may be functionally and or physically connected to the electronic device through various interfaces.

The sensor module measures physical quantities or detects an operating state of the electronic device thereby converting the measured or detected information into electrical signals. The sensor module may include at least one of a gesture sensor A a gyro sensor B a barometric pressure sensor C a magnetic sensor D an acceleration sensor E a grip sensor F a proximity sensor G a color sensor H for example a red green blue RGB sensor a biometric sensor I a temperature humidity sensor J an illumination sensor K and an ultra violet UV sensor M. Additionally or alternatively the sensor module may include an E nose sensor an electromyography EMG sensor an electroencephalogram EEG sensor an electrocardiogram ECG sensor an infrared IR sensor an iris sensor or a fingerprint sensor. The sensor module may further include a control circuit for controlling at least one sensor therein. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure a processor configured to control the sensor module may be part of the processor . Alternatively the processor configured to control the sensor module may be separate from the processor . In either case the processor configured to control the sensor module may operate even when the circuitry of the processor not used to control the sensor module is in a sleep state.

The input device may include a touch panel a digital pen sensor a key or an ultrasonic input device . The touch panel may use for example at least one of capacitive resistive infrared or ultrasonic methods. Additionally the touch panel may further include a control circuit. The touch panel may also include a tactile layer to provide tactile response to a user.

The digital pen sensor may include for example a sheet for recognition as part of a touch panel or a separate sheet for recognition. The key may include a physical button an optical key or a keypad for example. The ultrasonic input device may detect ultrasonic waves generated from an input tool through a microphone for example the microphone in order to check data corresponding to the detected ultrasonic waves.

The display for example the display may include a panel a hologram device and or a projector . The panel may have the same or similar configuration to the display of . The panel may be implemented to be for example flexible transparent and or wearable. The panel and the touch panel may be configured as one module. The hologram device may project three dimensional images in the air. The projector may display an image by projecting light on a screen. The screen for example may be placed inside or outside the electronic device . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the display may further include a control circuit for controlling the panel the hologram device or the projector .

The interface may include for example a high definition multimedia interface HDMI a universal serial bus USB an optical interface and or a D subminiature sub . The interface may be included for example in the communication interface shown in . Additionally or alternatively the interface may include a mobile high definition link MHL interface a secure Digital SD card multi media card MMC interface or an infrared data association IrDA standard interface.

The audio module may convert sound into electrical signals and convert electrical signals into sounds. At least some components of the audio module for example may be included in the input output interface shown in . The audio module may process sound information inputted outputted through a speaker a receiver an earphone or a microphone .

The camera module a device for capturing still images and video may include at least one image sensor for example a front sensor and or a rear sensor a lens not shown an image signal processor ISP not shown and or a flash not shown for example an LED or a xenon lamp .

The power management module may manage the power of the electronic device . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the power management module may include for example a power management IC PMIC a charger IC and or a battery gauge. The PMIC may support a wired and or a wireless charging methods. As the wireless charging method for example there is a magnetic resonance method a magnetic induction method or an electromagnetic method. An additional circuit for wireless charging for example a circuit such as a coil loop a resonant circuit or a rectifier circuit may be added. The battery gauge may measure the remaining amount of the battery or a voltage current or temperature thereof during charging. The battery for example may include a rechargeable battery and or a solar battery.

The indicator may display a specific state of the electronic device or part thereof for example the processor for example a booting state a message state or a charging state. The motor may convert electrical signals into mechanical vibration and may generate vibration or haptic effect. Although not shown in the drawings the electronic device may include a processing device for example a GPU for mobile TV support. A processing device for mobile TV support may process media data according to the standards such as digital multimedia broadcasting DMB digital video broadcasting DVB or mediaFLO.

Each of the above mentioned components of the electronic device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure may be configured with at least one component and the name of a corresponding component may vary according to the kind of an electronic device. According to various embodiments of the present disclosure an electronic device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure may include at least one of the above mentioned components may not include some of the above mentioned components or may further include another component. Additionally some of components in an electronic device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure are configured as one entity so that functions of previous corresponding components are performed identically.

In relation to the configuration of an electronic device may have a configuration including a processor for example the AP a memory for example the memory and a communication module for example the communication module . According to various embodiments of the present disclosure an electronic device may include a processor a memory and a communication module configured to support a packet switched PS and circuit switched CS system communication network wherein when the communication module performs a tune away operation for receiving CS paging information the memory being executed by the processor includes an instruction for transmitting information on the tune away to a user equipment in a video call by the PS system.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the information on the tune away may include start information of the tune away or end information of the tune away. Additionally the information on the tune away may include at least one of an expected end time point of the tune away an average tune away period and a minimum tune away period in addition to the start information of the tune away.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the processor may store a period of tune away occurring from the electronic device and an average of the period in the memory.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the electronic device may further include a plurality of reception antennas electrically connected to the communication module and at least one of the plurality of reception antennas may be set to receive a signal of the PS system communication network when the tune away operation is performed.

Referring to according to an embodiment of the present disclosure a program module for example the program may include an operating system OS for controlling a resource relating to an electronic device for example the electronic device and or various applications for example the application program running on the OS.

The program module may include a kernel a middleware an API and or an application . At least part of the program module may be preloaded on an electronic device or may be downloaded from a server for example the electronic devices and and the server device .

The kernel for example the kernel for example may include a system resource manager or a device driver . The system resource manager may perform the control allocation or retrieval of a system resource. According to an embodiment of the disclosure the system resource manager may include a process management unit a memory management unit or a file system management unit. The device driver for example may include a display driver a camera driver a Bluetooth driver a sharing memory driver a USB driver a keypad driver a WiFi driver an audio driver or an inter process communication IPC driver.

The middleware for example may provide a function that the application requires commonly or may provide various functions to the application through the API in order to allow the application to efficiently use a limited system resource inside the electronic device. According to an embodiment of the disclosure the middleware for example the middleware may include at least one of a runtime library an application manager a window manager a multimedia manager a resource manager a power manager a database manager a package manager a connectivity manager a notification manager a location manager a graphic manager and a security manager .

The runtime library for example may include a library module that a compiler uses to add a new function through a programming language while the application is running. The runtime library may perform a function on input output management memory management or an arithmetic function.

The application manager for example may mange the life cycle of at least one application among the applications . The window manager may manage a GUI resource used in a screen. The multimedia manager may recognize a format for playing various media files and may encode or decode a media file by using the codec corresponding to a corresponding format. The resource manager may manage a resource such as a source code a memory or a storage space of at least any one of the applications .

The power manager for example may operate together with a basic input output system BIOS to manage the battery or power and may provide power information necessary for an operation of the electronic device. The database manager may create search or modify a database used in at least one application among the applications . The package manager may manage the installation or update of an application distributed in a package file format.

The connectivity manger may manage a wireless connection such as WiFi or Bluetooth. The notification manager may display or notify an event such as arrival messages appointments and proximity alerts to a user in a manner of not interrupting the user. The location manager may manage location information on an electronic device. The graphic manager may manage a graphic effect to be provided to a user or a user interface relating thereto. The security manager may provide various security functions necessary for system security or user authentication. According to an embodiment when an electronic device for example the electronic device includes a phone function the middleware may further include a telephony manager for managing a voice or video call function of the electronic device.

The middleware may include a middleware module for forming a combination of various functions of the above mentioned components. The middleware may provide a module specialized for each type of OS to provide differentiated functions. Additionally the middleware may delete part of existing components or add new components dynamically.

The API for example the API for example as a set of API programming functions may be provided as another configuration according to OS. For example in the case of android or iOS one API set may be provided for each platform and in the case Tizen at least two API sets may be provided for each platform.

The application for example the application program may include at least one application for providing functions such as a home a dialer an SMS MMS an instant message a browser a camera an alarm a contact a voice dial an e mail a calendar a media player an album a clock health care for example measure an exercise amount or blood sugar or environmental information provision for example provide air pressure humidity or temperature information .

According to an embodiment the application may include an application hereinafter referred to as information exchange application for supporting information exchange between the electronic device for example the electronic device and an external electronic device for example the electronic devices and . The information exchange application for example may include a notification relay application for relaying specific information to the external device or a device management application for managing the external electronic device.

For example the notification relay application may have a function for relaying to an external electronic device for example electronic devices and notification information occurring from another application for example an SMS MMS application an e mail application a health care application or an environmental information application of the electronic device. Additionally the notification relay application may receive notification information from an external electronic device and may then provide the received notification information to a user.

The device management application for example may manage for example install delete or update at least one function turn on turn off of the external electronic device itself or some components or the brightness or resolution adjustment of a display of an external electronic device for example the electronic devices and communicating with the electronic device an application operating in the external electronic device or a service for example call service or message service provided from the external device.

According to an embodiment of the disclosure the application may include a specified application for example a health care application of a mobile medical device according to the property of an external electronic device for example the electronic devices and . According to an embodiment the application may include an application received from an external electronic device for example the server or the electronic device or . According to an embodiment of the disclosure the application may include a preloaded application or a third party application downloadable from a server. The names of components in the program module according to the shown embodiment may vary depending on the type of OS.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure at least part of the program module may be implemented with software firmware hardware or a combination thereof. At least part of the program module for example may be implemented for example executed by a processor for example the processor . At least part of the program module may include a module a program a routine sets of instructions or a process to perform at least one function for example.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure in relation to a high quality video call using a PS type network such as VoLTE based video call even when a terminal performs a tune away operation for receiving CS paging information the influence of LTE data throughput deterioration caused by the tune away operation may be minimized and a high quality video call may be maintained.

The term module used in various embodiments of the present disclosure for example may mean a unit including a combination of at least one of hardware software and or firmware. The terms module unit logic logical block component or circuit may be interchangeably used. A module may be a minimum unit or part of an integrally configured component. A module may be a minimum unit performing at least one function or part thereof. A module may be implemented mechanically or electronically. For example module according to various embodiments of the present disclosure may include at least one of for example an application specific integrated circuit ASIC chip performing certain operations field programmable gate arrays FPGAs a programmable logic device and other modules applicable to the various embodiments of the disclosure known to one of an ordinary skill in the art as well as other applicable modules that may be developed in the future.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure at least part of a device for example modules or functions thereof or a method for example operations according to this disclosure for example as in a form of a programming module may be implemented using an instruction stored in computer readable storage media. When at least one processor for example the processor executes an instruction it may perform a function corresponding to the instruction. The non transitory computer readable storage media may include the memory for example.

The non transitory computer readable storage media may include hard disks floppy disks magnetic media for example magnetic tape optical media for example CD ROM and DVD magneto optical media for example floptical disk and hardware devices for example ROM RAM or flash memory . Additionally a program instruction may include high level language code executable by a computer using an interpreter in addition to machine code created by a compiler. The hardware device may be configured to operate as at least one software module to perform an operation of various embodiments of the present disclosure and vice versa.

A module or a programming module according to various embodiments of the present disclosure may include at least one of the above mentioned components may not include some of the above mentioned components or may further include another component. Operations performed by a module a programming module or other components according to various embodiments of the present disclosure may be executed through a sequential parallel repetitive or heuristic method. Additionally some operations may be executed in a different order or may be omitted. Or other operations may be added.

Moreover the embodiments disclosed in this specification are suggested for the description and understanding of technical content but do not limit the range of the present disclosure. Accordingly the range of the present disclosure should be interpreted as including all modifications or various other embodiments based on the technical idea of the present disclosure.

