---

title: Cloud-based global alarm annunciation system for industrial systems
abstract: A cloud-based global alarm annunciation broker assist in locating and contacting suitable technical support personnel in response to detected alarm events at a plant facility. The system comprises a cloud-based framework that dynamically matches on-site alarm events to domain experts capable of addressing the alarm events. The framework uses an agent-based architecture to gather industrial data from data sources within the industrial environment, including time-series alarm data. The data is received at a cloud platform, where broker services perform a global search for suitable technical support resources in response to alarm events identified by the collected data. The brokering system can automatically generate service tickets and send notifications to both end users and system managers/supervisors, and can notify application-level experts about events and anomalies that emerge from the on-premise processes being monitored by the cloud-based broker system.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09614963&OS=09614963&RS=09614963
owner: Rockwell Automation Technologies, Inc.
number: 09614963
owner_city: Mayfield Heights
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150323
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 970 798 filed on Mar. 26 2014 entitled INDUSTRIAL CLOUD INFRASTRUCTURE FOR DATA INGESTION MODELING PROCESSING ANALYTICS AND REPORTING the entirety of which is incorporated herein by reference.

The subject matter disclosed herein relates generally to industrial automation and more particularly a cloud based architecture that matches industrial alarm events with qualified technical experts using a global search framework.

The following presents a simplified summary in order to provide a basic understanding of some aspects described herein. This summary is not an extensive overview nor is intended to identify key critical elements or to delineate the scope of the various aspects described herein. Its sole purpose is to present some concepts in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.

In one or more embodiments a system for notification of industrial alarm events is provided a device interface configured to receive at a cloud platform a data packet from a cloud agent device residing at an industrial facility wherein the data packet comprises an alarm record identifying an alarm event associated with an industrial system a search component configured to identify one or more technical experts based on information included in the alarm record and a user interface component configured to send notification information to one or more client devices associated with the one or more technical experts the notification information requesting assistance in resolving the alarm event.

Also one or more embodiments provide a method for matching industrial alarm events with technical experts comprising receiving at a cloud platform by a system comprising at least one processor a data packet from a cloud agent device that monitors an industrial process wherein the data packet comprises an alarm record that identifies an alarm event associated with the industrial process identifying by the system a subset of technical experts defined in an expert data store based on a comparison of the expert data with the alarm record and sending by the system notification data to one or more client devices associated with the subset of technical experts wherein the notification data comprises a request for support in connection with the alarm event.

Also according to one or more embodiments a non transitory computer readable medium is provided having stored thereon instructions that in response to execution cause a system to perform operations the operations comprising receiving at a cloud platform an alarm record from a cloud agent device that monitors alarm events at an industrial facility wherein the alarm record identifies an alarm event associated with an industrial device searching expert data maintained in cloud based expert data storage based on the alarm record wherein the expert data comprises information relating to a set of technical experts identifying a subset of the technical experts determined to be capable of assisting with the alarm event based on a comparison of the expert data with the alarm record and sending via the cloud platform notification information to one or more client devices associated with the subset of technical experts wherein the notification information comprises a request for assistance in resolving the alarm event.

To the accomplishment of the foregoing and related ends certain illustrative aspects are described herein in connection with the following description and the annexed drawings. These aspects are indicative of various ways which can be practiced all of which are intended to be covered herein. Other advantages and novel features may become apparent from the following detailed description when considered in conjunction with the drawings.

The subject disclosure is now described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding thereof. It may be evident however that the subject disclosure can be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to facilitate a description thereof.

As used in this application the terms component system platform layer controller terminal station node interface are intended to refer to a computer related entity or an entity related to or that is part of an operational apparatus with one or more specific functionalities wherein such entities can be either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. For example a component can be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor a hard disk drive multiple storage drives of optical or magnetic storage medium including affixed e.g. screwed or bolted or removable affixed solid state storage drives an object an executable a thread of execution a computer executable program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a server and the server can be a component. One or more components can reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component can be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers. Also components as described herein can execute from various computer readable storage media having various data structures stored thereon. The components may communicate via local and or remote processes such as in accordance with a signal having one or more data packets e.g. data from one component interacting with another component in a local system distributed system and or across a network such as the Internet with other systems via the signal . As another example a component can be an apparatus with specific functionality provided by mechanical parts operated by electric or electronic circuitry which is operated by a software or a firmware application executed by a processor wherein the processor can be internal or external to the apparatus and executes at least a part of the software or firmware application. As yet another example a component can be an apparatus that provides specific functionality through electronic components without mechanical parts the electronic components can include a processor therein to execute software or firmware that provides at least in part the functionality of the electronic components. As further yet another example interface s can include input output I O components as well as associated processor application or Application Programming Interface API components. While the foregoing examples are directed to aspects of a component the exemplified aspects or features also apply to a system platform interface layer controller terminal and the like.

As used herein the terms to infer and inference refer generally to the process of reasoning about or inferring states of the system environment and or user from a set of observations as captured via events and or data. Inference can be employed to identify a specific context or action or can generate a probability distribution over states for example. The inference can be probabilistic that is the computation of a probability distribution over states of interest based on a consideration of data and events. Inference can also refer to techniques employed for composing higher level events from a set of events and or data. Such inference results in the construction of new events or actions from a set of observed events and or stored event data whether or not the events are correlated in close temporal proximity and whether the events and data come from one or several event and data sources.

In addition the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or. That is unless specified otherwise or clear from the context the phrase X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is the phrase X employs A or B is satisfied by any of the following instances X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B. In addition the articles a and an as used in this application and the appended claims should generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from the context to be directed to a singular form.

Furthermore the term set as employed herein excludes the empty set e.g. the set with no elements therein. Thus a set in the subject disclosure includes one or more elements or entities. As an illustration a set of controllers includes one or more controllers a set of data resources includes one or more data resources etc. Likewise the term group as utilized herein refers to a collection of one or more entities e.g. a group of nodes refers to one or more nodes.

Various aspects or features will be presented in terms of systems that may include a number of devices components modules and the like. It is to be understood and appreciated that the various systems may include additional devices components modules etc. and or may not include all of the devices components modules etc. discussed in connection with the figures. A combination of these approaches also can be used.

Industrial controllers and their associated I O devices are central to the operation of modern automation systems. These controllers interact with field devices on the plant floor to control automated processes relating to such objectives as product manufacture material handling batch processing supervisory control and other such applications. Industrial controllers store and execute user defined control programs to effect decision making in connection with the controlled process. Such programs can include but are not limited to ladder logic sequential function charts function block diagrams structured text or other such programming structures.

Because of the large number of system variables that must be monitored and controlled in near real time industrial automation systems often generate vast amounts of near real time data. In addition to production statistics data relating to machine health alarm statuses operator feedback e.g. manually entered reason codes associated with a downtime condition electrical or mechanical load over time and the like are often monitored and in some cases recorded on a continuous basis. This data is generated by the many industrial devices that make up a typical automation system including the industrial controller and its associated I O telemetry devices for near real time metering motion control devices e.g. drives for controlling the motors that make up a motion system visualization applications lot traceability systems e.g. barcode tracking etc. Moreover since many industrial facilities operate on a 24 hour basis their associated automation systems can generate a vast amount of potentially useful data at high rates. The amount of generated automation data further increases as additional plant facilities are added to an industrial enterprise.

Industrial automation systems that make up a given industrial enterprise are typically maintained by on site plant personnel e.g. maintenance personnel plant engineers etc. . Given the diversity and complexity of industrial assets that make up a given industrial system many device or system maintenance issues require a level of specialized device expertise not possessed by on site maintenance personnel who may be responsible for a wide range of disparate industrial assets and therefore possess a more generalized knowledge of their assets. Consequently industrial enterprises generally rely to varying degrees on outside expert support personnel for assistance with certain technical support issues.

Maintenance personnel wishing to obtain technical assistance to resolve a device failure a performance issue or an alarm incident must typically contact a remote technical support person by phone and provide relevant information about their particular industrial device software system configuration etc. Providing the technical support personnel with a complete set of relevant information required to resolve a maintenance issue sometimes requires a level of knowledge about the customer s system that on site plant personnel may not possess. Moreover on premise maintenance personnel may not know the correct technical support person for assistance in solving a particular alarm incident. This is a particular problem in the case of custom built industrial systems which are often designed and built by original equipment manufacturers OEMs using devices supplied by a separate equipment vendor e.g. industrial controllers motor drives etc. . Consequently the most suitable technical support entity for addressing a particular performance issue or abnormality with the custom machine may not always be clear to the machine owner.

To address these and other issues one or more embodiments of the present disclosure provide a cloud based global alarm annunciation broker GAAB system that assists in locating and contacting suitable technical support personnel in response to detected alarm incidents at a plant facility. The system comprises a cloud based framework that dynamically matches on site alarm events to domain expertise experts contractors etc. capable of addressing the alarm events. In one or more embodiments the broker system uses an agent based architecture to gather industrial data from data sources within an industrial environment including but not limited to industrial devices e.g. controllers drives telemetry devices etc. data historians data tables business level systems e.g. enterprise resource planning systems manufacturing execution systems accounting systems etc. and other such data sources. Among other types of data the on premise cloud agents can gather time series alarm data from one or more industrial devices or machines. The alarm data is pushed to a cloud platform where broker services harmonize the alarm data to a common schema by adding a harmonization envelope to the data. The broker system can analyze the harmonized alarm data to identify incoming alarm incidents that may require outside technical assistance and perform a global search for a suitable technical support resource matching the particular incident. The broker system can identify suitable technical experts based in part on system and expert level information provided to the system. In some embodiments the brokering mechanism can automatically generate tickets and send notifications to both end users e.g. equipment owners and system managers supervisors and can notify application level experts about events and anomalies that emerge from the on premise processes being monitored by the cloud based broker system. The GAAB system described herein allows alarm notifications across many different applications to be handled and viewed in a consistent manner.

The alarm annunciation broker system is designed to execute as a service or set of services on a cloud platform. illustrates a high level overview of an industrial enterprise that leverages cloud based services. The enterprise comprises one or more industrial facilities each having a number of industrial devices and in use. The industrial devices and can make up one or more automation systems operating within the respective facilities . Exemplary automation systems can include but are not limited to batch control systems e.g. mixing systems continuous control systems e.g. PID control systems or discrete control systems. Industrial devices and can include such devices as industrial controllers e.g. programmable logic controllers or other types of programmable automation controllers field devices such as sensors and meters motor drives operator interfaces e.g. human machine interfaces industrial monitors graphic terminals message displays etc. industrial robots barcode markers and readers vision system devices e.g. vision cameras smart welders or other such industrial devices.

Exemplary automation systems can include one or more industrial controllers that facilitate monitoring and control of their respective processes. The controllers exchange data with the field devices using native hardwired I O or via a plant network such as Ethernet IP Data Highway Plus ControlNet Devicenet or the like. A given controller typically receives any combination of digital or analog signals from the field devices indicating a current state of the devices and their associated processes e.g. temperature position part presence or absence fluid level etc. and executes a user defined control program that performs automated decision making for the controlled processes based on the received signals. The controller then outputs appropriate digital and or analog control signaling to the field devices in accordance with the decisions made by the control program. These outputs can include device actuation signals temperature or position control signals operational commands to a machining or material handling robot mixer control signals motion control signals and the like. The control program can comprise any suitable type of code used to process input signals read into the controller and to control output signals generated by the controller including but not limited to ladder logic sequential function charts function block diagrams structured text or other such platforms.

Although the exemplary overview illustrated in depicts the industrial devices and as residing in fixed location industrial facilities the industrial devices and may also be part of a mobile control application such as a system contained in a truck or other service vehicle.

According to one or more embodiments on premise cloud agents can collect data from industrial devices and or from other data sources including but not limited to data historians business level systems etc. and send this data to cloud platform for processing and storage. Cloud platform can be any infrastructure that allows cloud services to be accessed and utilized by cloud capable devices. Cloud platform can be a public cloud accessible via the Internet by devices having Internet connectivity and appropriate authorizations to utilize the services . In some scenarios cloud platform can be provided by a cloud provider as a platform as a service PaaS and the services such as the alarm annunciation brokering system described herein can reside and execute on the cloud platform as a cloud based service. In some such configurations access to the cloud platform and the services can be provided to customers as a subscription service by an owner of the services . Alternatively cloud platform can be a private or semi private cloud operated internally by the enterprise or a shared or corporate cloud environment. An exemplary private cloud can comprise a set of servers hosting the cloud services and residing on a corporate network protected by a firewall.

Cloud services can include but are not limited to data storage data analysis control applications e.g. applications that can generate and deliver control instructions to industrial devices and based on analysis of real time system data or other factors alarm monitoring and expertise brokering services visualization applications such as the cloud based operator interface system described herein reporting applications Enterprise Resource Planning ERP applications notification services or other such applications. Cloud platform may also include one or more object models to facilitate data ingestion and processing in the cloud. If cloud platform is a web based cloud cloud agents at the respective industrial facilities may interact with cloud services directly or via the Internet. In an exemplary configuration the industrial devices and connect to the on premise cloud agents through a physical or wireless local area network or radio link. In another exemplary configuration the industrial devices and may access the cloud platform directly using integrated cloud agents.

Ingestion of industrial device data in the cloud platform through the use of cloud agents can offer a number of advantages particular to industrial automation. For one cloud based storage offered by the cloud platform can be easily scaled to accommodate the large quantities of data generated daily by an industrial enterprise. Moreover multiple industrial facilities at different geographical locations can migrate their respective automation data to the cloud for aggregation collation collective analysis visualization and enterprise level reporting without the need to establish a private network between the facilities. Cloud agents can be configured to automatically detect and communicate with the cloud platform upon installation at any facility simplifying integration with existing cloud based data storage analysis or reporting applications used by the enterprise. In another example application cloud based diagnostic applications can monitor the health of respective automation systems or their associated industrial devices across an entire plant or across multiple industrial facilities that make up an enterprise. Cloud based lot control applications can be used to track a unit of product through its stages of production and collect production data for each unit as it passes through each stage e.g. barcode identifier production statistics for each stage of production quality test data abnormal flags etc. . Moreover cloud based control applications can perform remote decision making for a controlled industrial system based on data collected in the cloud from the industrial system and issue control commands to the system via the cloud agent. These industrial cloud computing applications are only intended to be exemplary and the systems and methods described herein are not limited to these particular applications. The cloud platform can allow software vendors to provide software as a service removing the burden of software maintenance upgrading and backup from their customers.

Global alarm annunciation broker system can include a queue management component a worker role component a harmonization component a search component a device interface component a user interface component one or more processors and memory . In various embodiments one or more of the queue management component worker role component harmonization component search component device interface component user interface component the one or more processors and memory can be electrically and or communicatively coupled to one another to perform one or more of the functions of the global alarm annunciation broker system . In some embodiments components and can comprise software instructions stored on memory and executed by processor s . Global alarm annunciation system may also interact with other hardware and or software components not depicted in . For example processor s may interact with one or more external user interface devices such as a keyboard a mouse a display monitor a touchscreen or other such interface devices.

Queue management component can be configured to receive compressed data packets from one or more cloud agents residing at an industrial facility and organize the industrial data contained in the packets into priority queues that respectively define how the data packets are to be processed by cloud processing services. The industrial data contained in the packets can include for example data relating to alarm events generated by industrial machines and or devices on the plant floor. The worker role component can be configured to process the data received in the data packets to facilitate matching alarm events to suitable technical experts capable of assisting in resolving the alarm event. Processing performed by the worker role component can include but is not limited to organization and management of incoming alarm information and pre processing of alarm information prior to searching for suitable technical resources.

The harmonization component can be configured to apply a harmonization envelop to incoming alarm records thereby normalizing alarm records from multiple different sources so that the alarms can be processed in a consistent manner by the broker system . The search component can be configured to perform a search for one or more suitable technical support experts capable of assisting with a particular alarm event. The device interface component can be configured to receive the data packets from one or more cloud agent devices residing at one or more plant facilities. The user interface component can be configured to exchange information between the broker system and a client device associated with a technical expert a system manager a supervisor or another authorized user of the broker system. To this end the user interface component can be configured to serve user interface screens to the client device that allow the user to view information stored or generated by the broker system e.g. alarm status information expert information alarm service histories etc. and to send information to the broker system e.g. service acknowledgements availability information contract information etc. .

The one or more processors can perform one or more of the functions described herein with reference to the systems and or methods disclosed. Memory can be a computer readable storage medium storing computer executable instructions and or information for performing the functions described herein with reference to the systems and or methods disclosed.

In the example illustrated in a data concentrator collects plant data from one or more industrial assets e.g. data generated by one or more industrial controllers such as industrial devices or at a plant facility. These industrial assets can include industrial controllers that monitor and control industrial I O devices data servers and historians motor drives remote I O interfaces that remotely interface groups of I O devices to one or more of the industrial controllers boilers or other industrial machines or other such assets. For example data concentrator can monitor one or more controller tags defined in a tag archive and store data in local data storage e.g. a local structured query language or SQL server associated with a historian . The collected data can include historical data e.g. alarm history status history trend data etc. live data values read from the industrial assets alarm data generated by the industrial assets or other types of data.

An on premise cloud agent is configured to collect the live or historical data from the industrial assets either directly or by accessing data storage associated with data concentrator . Cloud agent can execute on any suitable hardware platform e.g. a server a LINUX box etc. and acts as a generic gateway that collects data items from the various industrial assets on the plant network and packages the collected data according to a generic uniform data packaging schema used to move the on premise data to a cloud platform . Cloud agent provides a software mechanism to dynamically link on premise to cloud gateways. Cloud agent provides an expandable data type schema that allows new data types to be added without the need to redeploy the monitoring system to the cloud.

During data collection the cloud agent can intelligently sort and organize the data based on defined criteria including but not limited to time of occurrence and or user defined priorities. Cloud agent can be for example a service e.g. a Windows service that periodically collects and transmits serialized and compressed data into the cloud domain using standard web services over HTTPS SSL.

Cloud agent functionality is illustrated in more detail with reference to . On premise data collection is enabled by a collection of services that function as a virtual support engineer for processing data. Data concentrator and cloud agent respectively implement two main functions associated with data collection data concentration using a historian and associated data storage e.g. an SQL server and cloud data enablement using cloud agent services executed by cloud agent . As noted above plant data is collected by data concentrator at the plant facility. In an example scenario plant data may comprise stamping press time series sensor data made up of thousands of data points updated at a rate of less than a second.

Collection services component of cloud agent implements collection services that collect device data either from data concentrator s associated data storage e.g. via an SQL query or directly from the devices themselves via a common industrial protocol CIP link or other suitable communication protocol. For example to obtain data from data concentrator collection services component may periodically run a data extraction query e.g. an SQL query to extract data from data storage associated with data concentrator . Collection services component can then compress the data and store the data in a compressed data file . Queue processing services executed by queue processing component can then read the compressed data file and reference a message queuing database which maintains and manages customer specific data collection configuration information as well as information relating to the customer s subscription to the cloud platform and associated cloud services. Based on configuration information in the message queuing database queue processing component packages the compressed data file into a data packet and pushes the data packet to the cloud platform. In some embodiments the cloud agent can support injecting data packets as torrential data .

Message queuing database can include site specific information identifying the data items to be collected e.g. data tag identifiers user defined processing priorities for the data tags firewall settings that allow cloud agent to communicate with the cloud platform through a plant firewall and other such configuration information. Configuration information in message queuing database instructs cloud agent how to communicate with the identified data tags and with the remote data collection services on the cloud platform.

In addition to collection and migration of data one or more embodiments of cloud agent can also perform local analytics on the data prior to moving the data to the cloud platform. This can comprise substantially any type of pre processing or data refinement that may facilitate efficient transfer of the data to the cloud prepare the data for enhanced analysis in the cloud reduce the amount of cloud storage required to store the data or other such benefits. For example cloud agent may be configured to compress the collected data using any suitable data compression algorithm prior to migrating the data to the cloud platform. This can include detection and deletion of redundant data bits truncation of precision bits or other suitable compression operations. In another example cloud agent may be configured to aggregate data by combining related data from multiple sources. For example data from multiple sensors measuring related aspects of an automation system can be identified and aggregated into a single cloud upload packet by cloud agent . Cloud agent may also encrypt sensitive data prior to upload to the cloud. In yet another example cloud agent may filter the data according to any specified filtering criterion e.g. filtering criteria defined in a filtering profile stored on the cloud agent . For example defined filtering criteria may specify that pressure values exceeding a defined setpoint are to be filtered out prior to uploading the pressure values to the cloud.

In some embodiments cloud agent may also transform a specified subset of the industrial data from a first format to a second format in accordance with a requirement of a cloud based analysis application. For example a cloud based reporting application may require measured values in ASCII format. Accordingly cloud agent can convert a selected subset of the gathered data from floating point format to ASCII prior to pushing the data to the cloud platform for storage and processing. Converting the raw data at the industrial device before uploading to the cloud rather than requiring this transformation to be performed on the cloud can reduce the amount of processing load on the cloud side.

Cloud agent may also associate metadata with selected subsets of the data prior to migration to the cloud thereby contextualizing the data within the industrial environment. For example cloud agent can tag selected subsets of the data with a time indicator specifying a time at which the data was generated a quality indicator a production area indicator specifying a production area within the industrial enterprise from which the data was collected a machine or process state indicator specifying a state of a machine or process at the time the data was generated a personnel identifier specifying an employee on duty at the time the data was generated or other such contextual metadata. In this way cloud agent can perform layered processing of the collected data to generate meta level knowledge that can subsequently be leveraged by cloud based analysis tools to facilitate enhanced analysis of the data in view of a larger plant context.

To ensure secure outbound traffic to the cloud one or more embodiments of cloud agent can support HTTPS SSL certificate authority enabled transmission and or unique identity using MAC addresses. Cloud agent can also support store and forward capability to ensure data is not lost if the agent becomes disconnected from the cloud.

Returning now to cloud agent sends compressed data packet to the cloud based data collection and monitoring system on cloud platform via a cloud storage fabric . The data packet conveys parameters and data compressed and serialized used by the cloud side services to reconstruct the domain data structure in the cloud using auxiliary tenant level manifests. The cloud services direct remote storage of the received data into preconditioned transient blobs . The cloud platform can use agent reasoning and collective bargain features to determine a data storage locale.

Through the configuration interface provided by cloud agent users at the plant facility can dynamically configure one or more priority queues that respectively define how the data packets are processed in the cloud platform . For example separate queues may be defined for alarms live data and historical data allowing data to be organized according to these data types. The historical data queue can relate to time series records which can be accessed through an application programming interface API e.g. an SQL API or other suitable API . The alarms queue can relate to abnormal situations where the alarm data can also be accessed through the API. This alarms queue can comprise multiple queues associated with different alarm priorities to allow for individual processing for different alarms having different levels of criticality. In some embodiments servers controllers switches etc. can be monitored using a number of protocols and at a certain point e.g. at the end of a monitoring cycle alarms can be queued and cloud agent can send the alarms to the cloud. Alarms can be reactive e.g. alarms that trigger when a motor fails when a CPU crashes when an interlock is tripped etc. or proactive e.g. a monitoring system may track consumables on a machine and generate an alarm when time to reorder monitor cycle counts on a machine and generate an alarm when to schedule preventative maintenance generate an alarm when temperatures fall outside defined bandwidths send a notification when a computer s memory is 80 full etc. .

The live data queue can relate to substantially real time monitored data such as current temperatures current pressures etc. The live data values can also be accessed through the API e.g. a SQL API . The queues described above are not intended to be limiting and it is to be appreciated that other types of priority queues can be defined according to the needs of the end user. For example queues may be defined for specific devices or device types e.g. motor drives for uploading of device parameter and or performance data.

In some embodiments cloud agent can allow the user to define these priority queues from the on site location and to define how data in each queue is handled. For example the user can define for each queue an upload frequency a priority level e.g. which data queues should take processing priority over other data queues identities of cloud partitions or databases in which data from the respective queues should be stored and other such information. In an example scenario the live data queue may be defined to process live data values that are to be used by a remote operator interface application to view substantially real time data from the plant facility while historical data queue may be used to process historian data for archival storage in a historical database on cloud storage. Accordingly the live data queue may be assigned a higher priority relative to the historical data queue since data in the live data queue is more time critical than data in the historical queue.

Through cloud agent users can assign priorities to respective data tags or tag groups at the customer site. These priority assignments can be stored in the message queuing database of the cloud agent . Accordingly when queue processing component packages the collected data to be moved to the cloud platform the collected data items can be packaged into data packets according to priority as defined in message queuing database and the respective data packet headers populated with the appropriate priority level. If access to the cloud is unavailable data will continue to be collected by collection services component and stored locally on the cloud agent in local storage associated with collections services. When communication to the cloud is restored the stored data will be forwarded to cloud storage. Queue processing services can also encrypt and send storage account keys to the cloud platform for user verification.

Message queuing services implemented by queue processing component of cloud agent encapsulates or packages the compressed data file by adding customer specific header information to yield a compressed data packed e.g. compressed data packet of . For example the queue processing component can access a message queuing database e.g. message queuing database of which stores customer site configuration information and manages the customer s subscription to the cloud platform services. The message queuing database may include such information as a customer identifier associated with the customer entity associated with the industrial enterprise a site identifier associated with a particular plant facility from which the data was collected a priority to be assigned to the data which may be dependent on the type of information being sent e.g. alarm data historical data live operational data etc. information required to facilitate connection to the customer s particular cloud fabric or other such information. The information included in the header is based on this customer specific information maintained in the message queuing database. An example compressed data packet is illustrated in . As shown the cloud agent s message queuing services add a header to compressed data file to yield the compressed data packet . The header contains customer specific data read from message queuing database . For example header can include a unique customer identifier a site identifier representing a particular plant facility a virtual support engineer identifier a data priority for the data in the compressed data file a message type and a process identifier that specifies a particular manifest application on the cloud platform that should be used to process the data on the cloud side. Packaging the data in this way can allow data from diverse data sources to be packaged together using a uniform generic data packaging schema so that the data can be moved to the cloud infrastructure

When cloud agent sends a data packet to the cloud based remote processing service the service reads the packet s header information to determine a priority assigned to the data e.g. as defined in a data priority field of the data packet and sends the data packet or the compressed data therein to a selected one of the user defined priority queues based on the priority. On the other side of the priority queues a data process service processes data in the respective priority queues according to the predefined processing definitions. The data processing service includes a worker role that determines how the queued data is to be processed. In some scenarios the queued data can be processed based on manifests e.g. system manifests tag manifests and metric manifests stored in a customer specific manifest assembly . Manifests define and implement customer specific capabilities applications and preferences for processing collected data in the cloud. Manifests can be dynamically uploaded by a user at the plant facility through cloud agent which facilitates dynamic extension of cloud computing capability.

For example if new data points are to be added to the data collection system that require creation of a new data queue the user can interact with cloud agent to configure a new manifest for the new queue the manifest defining such aspects as processing priority for the data upload frequency for the data where the data is to be routed or stored within cloud storage and other such information. Cloud agent can then upload the new manifest together with the data or independently of the data . The new manifest is then added to the customer s manifest assembly with the other manifests defined for the customer so that worker role can leverage the new manifest to determine how data in the new queue is to be processed. This new manifest need only be uploaded to the cloud based remote monitoring service once. Thereafter data placed in the new priority queue will be processed by worker role according to the new manifest stored in the customer s manifest assembly . For example the manifest may define where the data is to be stored within cloud storage e.g. in a historical database and Alarms and Live Data database big data storage etc. and whether processing of the new data queue is to take priority over other data queues. In some embodiments the manifest assembly may only accept a new manifest if the manifest is accompanied by a unique key associated with the client.

Once the cloud based infrastructure has processed and stored the data provided by cloud agent according to the techniques described above the data can be made accessible to client devices for viewing. Data analysis on the cloud platform can provide a set of web based and browser enabled technologies for retrieving directing and uncompressing the data from the cloud platform to the client devices . To this end reporting services can deliver data in cloud storage e.g. from the big data storage to the client devices in a defined format. For example reporting services can leverage collected data stored in the cloud repository to provide remote operator interfaces to client devices over the Internet. An analytic engine executing on the cloud platform can also perform various types of analysis on the data stored in big data storage and provide results to client devices .

A cloud agent similar to the cloud agents described above collects on premise data from one or more industrial assets or data collectors. In an example configuration a set of shared support computers maintained in a surveillance room can be connected to cloud platform via cloud agent . Shared support computers monitor customer alarms and other data by connecting to devices on customer sites via a dedicated high speed virtual private network VPN . For example the shared support computers may connect to an ODBC open database connectivity store of a human machine interface HMI a data table of an industrial controller e.g. a PLC or other type of industrial controller or other sources of industrial asset data. The shared support computers are also networked to cloud agent which is communicatively linked to cloud platform via firewall e.g. using HTTPS secure sockets layer or another secure communication protocol and which enables data ingestion from the industrial facility to data storage services and data analytics services on cloud platform . Cloud agent collects serializes and compresses various types of data from the on premise industrial assets including but not limited to I O data e.g. time series sensor data alarms documentation data etc. In general the global alarm annunciation broker features described herein are focused primarily on the alarm data collected by cloud agent and provided to the cloud platform for processing. On the cloud platform a global alarm annunciation broker GAAB system makes intelligent decisions regarding and how to organize and filter the alarm data how to handle detected alarm events and which technical resources should be contacted to quickly and effectively address the alarm events.

Alarm processing services on the cloud platform copy alarm data from cloud storage as alarm batches to the GAAB system which filters the alarm data and matches alarm events to technical experts. The GAAB system that carries out the alarm brokering functions executes on the cloud platform on cloud servers or other cloud level devices. The cloud platform includes a set of databases e.g. structured query language SQL databases that are used by the brokering services to temporarily store the alarm batches while the batches are being processed by the brokering functions.

The cloud side services include a harmonization component that gathers alarm data from data storage in batches. The harmonization component harmonizes alarm data in each batch and transfers the harmonized alarm data to the GAAB system via a subscription channel into a GAAB level entry queue. Alarm harmonization creates a common schema around the alarm data by adding a harmonization envelop to the original alarm data structure while maintaining the original format of the alarm data. Harmonizing the alarm data in this manner allows the alarm data to be processed by the GAAB system using a common set of business intelligent rules.

Returning now to the harmonized alarm records are accumulated in a transferring batch and transferred to the GAAB system . The size of the batch and its transmission rate can be configured by a system manager during a system configuration phase prior to initiating data collection and processing. To this end the GAAB system can generate and serve an alarm broker user interface to a client device. The alarm broker user interface affords the system manager access to a broker management portal that allows a number of configuration settings for the GAAB services to be set including but not limited to the transfer rate for batch transfers from the batch indexing database to the GAAB system .

The alarm batch contains alarm records collected from various industrial devices and applications and can also include alarm records from multiple different industrial facilities being monitored. The harmonization component enforces data sovereignty in scenarios in which alarm data from multiple customers is being collected. The harmonization component also tracks alarm indexing as the alarm records are copied and harmonized. To manage batch indexing information the harmonization assembly role can store alarm batch information in the batch indexing database . In this way the harmonization component can keep track of which alarm records have been sent to the GAAB system . If the transmission channel to the GAAB system becomes temporarily unavailable the harmonization component can temporarily cease harmonization and transmission of alarm batches while new alarm data continues to be received from the cloud agent . In such scenarios the harmonization component will recommence harmonization and batch transfer when the transmission path to the GAAB system is re established.

In some embodiments the harmonization component can transmit the alarm batch to the GAAB system synchronously. For each batch transmission the harmonization component expects an acknowledgement from the GAAB system. In the case of an interruption or unsuccessful transmission the harmonization component can log the transmission failure with a time stamp and a record of the GAAB system s response e.g. Transmission Failure Not Available etc. . In the event of multiple unsuccessful attempts to transmit a batch to the GAAB system a user interface component can send a notification to a system manager via a mobile device email or other notification means. All successful and unsuccessful alarm batch transmissions are logged in the batch indexing database .

The GAAB level worker role component captures essential statistical information from the batch such as the size of the batch e.g. the number of alarm records contained in the batch and an alarm mix range indicating the range of different types of alarms contained in the batch. Statistics for each alarm batch are maintained in a cloud based batch historian database . To determine the alarm mix range for the batch the worker role component can execute a script e.g. an SQL script that sorts the alarm records contained in the batch according to the Application ID attribute. The Application ID attribute can indicate for example a type of on site application to which the alarm event relates e.g. medium voltage drive alarms advanced network alarms etc. . By sorting the alarm records in the batch according to Application ID the alarms stored in the batch data table are organized into application specific alarm sets according to Application ID. The worker role component can determine the alarm mix range for the batch based on the number of unique Application IDs that are contained in the batch data table for the batch. Once these batch statistics are stored in the batch historian database they can be accessed for viewing by a system manager via the alarm broker user interface .

Each Application ID in the sorted table becomes the access key into a subset of alarms specific to a particular application type. The alarm sorting worker role then operates on each application sorted alarm set S to apply a first level business intelligence decision rule that determines whether the application type identified by the Application ID for that alarm set can be addressed by a support entity that is local to the customer site at which the alarm was generated decision step . The determination of which if any local support entities can assist with a particular Application ID can be based for example on application level data entered into an application database by a system manager via the alarm broker user interface . This application level data can be derived in part from customer contract information associated with the industrial enterprise from which the alarm data was received.

In an example scenario the decision step can generate a YES result if the customer contract specifies that the customer site at which a given alarm was generated has its own application support center. When the worker role component determines based on the customer contract information that an application support center is available for the customer site the alarm set is filtered by a smart filter using redundancy criteria to reduce the alarm set size by eliminating redundant information from the set. The status field for each alarm in the reduced set is changed to Waiting and the mode field for each alarm is set to Managed indicating that the alarm set is to be managed by its own service center. Since the filtered alarm set is managed by its own service center the broker system does not further filter the alarm set. The filtered set is then sent to search component which performs a search for local support personal who are available to assist in addressing the alarm event.

Alternatively if the customer contract specifies that the customer site that generated the current alarm set does not have its own application support center NO at decision step the alarm set is further sorted according to Technology e.g. PLC alarms SQL alarms etc. . The resulting technology sorted alarm set is then filtered for redundancy by smart filter using a redundancy checker filter yielding a filtered technology sorted set S.

In one or more embodiments the redundancy checking rules used by smart filter are designed to be applied to alarm sets sorted by technology based on the Technology field of the harmonized alarm records . These filtering rules focus on the technology characteristics of the alarms to understand alarm patterns within the alarm set and are configured to identify 1 alarm repetitions 2 alarm correlations and 3 pass through alarms.

To identify and filter alarm repetitions within the set the filtering rules first group all repeated alarms into temporary sets. For each set of repeated duplicate alarms all alarms except the latest alarm is deleted from the set. The broker system may additionally send a notification to one or more system managers informing of the redundant notifications. In response to the notification the system managers may chose to take action to mitigate further redundant instances of the alarm e.g. by inhibiting alarm generation in the appropriate industrial device. Finally the worker role component sets the Status field of the surviving non deleted alarm to Waiting and the Mode field to Base.

To identify alarm correlations within a set the worker role component can identify alarms representing a sequence of alarms that is alarms that correlate with each other or were generated as a result of a common alarm event based on predefined technology and application rules. These related alarms are classified by the system as symbiotic alarms. The worker role component then selects a representative alarm of the set of related alarms as a header alarm changes the Status field of the selected header alarm to Waiting and changes the Mode field of the selected header alarm to Master indicating that the alarm is a master alarm with one or more subordinate alarms . The subordinate non header alarms associated with the header alarm are selected their Status fields are set to Waiting and their Mode fields are set to Correlated indicating that they are subordinate alarms associated with a master alarm . Finally the Filter Key field of each correlated alarm is set to the value of the Application ID field of the header alarm.

The pass through rules identify each alarm in the original set that is not affected by the alarm repetition and alarm correlation rules set the Status fields of these alarms to Waiting and set the Mode fields of these alarms to Filtered.

To coordinate alarm lifecycle with the brokering process the worker role modifies the Status and Mode fields of the harmonized alarms according to Table 1 below 

After application of the filtering rules described above the technology filtered alarm set S is sent to search component to initiate a search for technical experts capable of assisting with corrective measures for the particular alarms identified in the filtered alarm set. For example the search component can perform a search of expert database to identify a subset of experts that satisfy defined criteria relative to each alarm in the set. The expert database is described in more detail below. The brokering system contacts the selected experts using a handshaking process that sends messages to client devices associated with the experts and that tracks the communication lifecycle so that the Status and Mode fields of the alarm records in the set can be updated as needed to reflect the current status of the corrective procedure.

Search component is configured with multithreading capabilities to manage the various application and technology sets that emerge from the brokering process. In one or more embodiments search component can be configured with two main search modes. Application mode is configured to handle alarms in the application sorted alarm set S while Technology mode is configured to handle alarms in the technology sorted alarm set S.

In Application mode search component initiates a handshaking context for each application group in the alarm set S. Since all alarms in each group are managed by local experts in this scenario search component uses the application domain data to extract application support expert information. That is for each application specific alarm group of alarm set S search component identifies a subset of the local experts that are 1 identified as having expertise with the application type identified by the Application ID for the group and 2 identified as being currently available. Each application group is matched by its corresponding local support center throughout the handshaking process.

The handshaking process is a coordinated request response procedure that uses a message router having a global reach. According to this handshaking process search component sends a request to a selected human expert using a preferred notification mechanism specified by the expert in advance e.g. text email phone etc. . For each case the technical expert can log onto his or her service account e.g. via a graphical interface served to the expert s client device by the interface component of the GAAB system in order to generate an acknowledgement to the request. The handshaking procedure executed by the search component is designed to handle various types of responses to the request including no response .

In Technology mode search component initiates a handshaking procedure for each technology group within the technology sorted alarm set S for all alarms except those whose Mode field is set to Correlated. Correlated alarms are indirectly managed through their associated Master alarm. Search component uses the application domain data to identify a set of technical support personnel capable of addressing the respective Technology groups.

For a given alarm in an alarm set the search component can identify a subset of technical experts that match the alarm description set forth by the data fields of the harmonized alarm records. The subset of experts can be selected to correspond not only to the alarm description but also the relevant technology and time zone indicated by the alarm s Technology and Time Zone fields. The subset of relevant experts can be selected from a set of expert level information previously provided to the broker system by a system manager and stored in expert database see . The expert database includes information about respective technical support personnel classified according to their technology and or application expertise time zone geographic location availability and score. Search component filters the pool of experts defined in the expert database by first identifying those experts that are available at the time the alarm event is detected and the time zone that is required by the alarm event. In some embodiments the search component will first limit the search to experts corresponding to the time zone of origin of the alarm event. However if no suitable experts are available within the local time zone at the time the event was detected the search component can then expand the search to other time zones.

In some embodiments each alarm type has an associated service waiting period that establishes a time window beginning at the time at which the user interface component of the GAAB system sends a notification of the alarm event to one or more experts in which an expert should acknowledge the alarm indicating that the expert is in the process of servicing the alarm event. Each alarm type can also have an associated time of service window for completing the service indicating a duration within which the expert should address the alarm event indicated by the alarm record. These time windows can be defined for example in the application level database see . Accordingly once a selected technical expert acknowledges the alarm notification the alarm record should not be in the system longer than the time of service window stipulated in the application level database .

Once a set of candidate experts satisfying the expertise time zone and availability requirements have been identified the search component sorts the candidate expert set based on scoring. The score for each expert can be based on a pre defined score information for the expert maintained in the expert database . Each expert record may have multiple defined scores for respective different technologies and or applications signifying the expert s degree of expertise for each defined technology or application type. When the selected set of experts that satisfy the time zone and availability requirements have been sorted according to score search component contacts the highest scored experts a first in first out FIFO manner using the handshaking context. Once the handshaking context is initiated the search component expects one of a set of possible responses from the experts. Possible responses include 

2 Request sent to expert but no acknowledgement is received within the expected time window for the alarm.

Depending on the expert response the search component advances the status of the alarms in an organized manner to achieve group level completion servicing of all alarms in a group within an alarm batch with a goal of achieving batch level completion servicing of all alarm groups in the batch .

When a new alarm is received at the entry queue as part of an alarm batch the Status field is initially set to Idle . When the GAAB level worker role component moves the alarm batch to the batch data table for batch processing system the Status is set to In Process . As described above a determination is the made at decision step regarding whether local application support is available for the alarm. If so the application sorted alarm set S is fed through and the alarm s Status field is set to Waiting . Alternatively if no local application support is available filter sorts alarm set S according to technology to yield technology sorted alarm set S and the alarm s Status field is set to Waiting . When an alarm is acknowledged and accepted by the expert the alarm s Status field is set to Served . An alarm having a Served status will wait for completion for a specified period of time. This time constraint is managed by the handshaking context. If an alarm times out while in the Served status e.g. the defined time of service duration expires prior to confirmation from the expert that service is complete the alarm is escalated and the worker role component sets the Status field for the alarm to Escalate . When an alarm is placed in the Escalate state the system sends a notification to a supervisor or system manager indicating that service for the alarm has not yet been completed. Alternatively if the notified expert serves the alarm within the stipulated time and provides a completion acknowledgement the worker role component changes the alarm s Status field to Completed .

If the highest scored expert is not able to acknowledge or serve the alarm within the stipulated times the search component sends a notification to the expert with the next highest score for the given alarm and the handshaking context updates its process to follow up with the expert s likely responses. Alarms in Escalate status remain in this status until the notified system manager or supervisor acknowledges the condition e.g. via the alarm broker user interface . Acknowledgement of the Escalated status Ack. YES at decision step can cause the system to place the alarm back in Idle status triggering a complete reworking of the alarm. Alternatively the system manager or supervisor may promote the alarm to Completed status due to obsolescence Ack. NO at decision step .

In some embodiments the harmonized alarm records may also include a Retry attribute that is used in connection with the Escalate status. While an alarm is in Escalate status the system manager or supervisor may look at the Retry attribute to determine whether the alarm has already been processed. If the system manager or supervisor decides to approve re working of the alarm the Retry attribute is incremented. The Retry attribute can help to control alarm reprocessing.

Once all alarms in a batch have been processed and completed or the supervisor promotes the batch to Completed status the handshaking context can create an entry in the batch history database to log a record of the batch completion. The alarm sorting worker role then removes the alarms data from the batch table database .

Handshaking communication with a selected technical expert begins when the search engine or a related communication component sends a message to the technical expert. The system can sent the notification to the expert via any suitable communication method including but not limited to text message email or a phone call. The messages can be sent to a pre defined client device associated with the expert such as a laptop desktop tablet computer mobile phone or other such devices. In some embodiments each expert s preferred method of communication can be specified by a technical support service contract between the expert and the service provider who manages the GAAB system. The expert may also enter his or her contact preferences into the expert database in some embodiments e.g. via a configuration management portal accessed via the expert s personal device.

The Geographical Location field can specify the areas or regions in which the expert operates. Data within the Geographical Location field can comprise a structured set of sub records that identify the geographical locations using an ID field and a region field. The Technologies field can comprise a set of sub records that identify the relevant technologies using an ID field and a Technology Name field. The Availability field indicates the expert s service schedule. Information in the Availability field can be set using a calendar like scheduling interface that allows the user to indicate the days and times during which the user will be available to assist with alarm events. This schedule can be kept up do date to reflect changes in jobs vacations sick leave etc. The Status field indicates the present status of an activity in which the expert is engaged. Example values for the Status field can include Idle Busy Leave Connected Disconnected Traveling etc.

The Score field represents a quality of service value e.g. a value between 1 and 100 . In some embodiments the score can be manually updated by the expert or by a supervisor or system manager to represent the expert s general level of expertise. Alternatively in some embodiments the GAAB system may calculate a score for the expert automatically based on analysis of the expert s service history as reflected by data collected for the expert during service activities. Factors that can be used by the GAAB system to calculate a score for a given expert can include but are not limited to an average time for the expert to respond to an alarm notification an average time for the expert to complete a service action associated with an alarm event types of applications and technologies for which the expert has provided service etc. In some embodiments the score field may comprise multiple application specific or technology specific scores providing a more granular indication of the expert s degree of expertise relative to particular applications and technologies. Accordingly when the search component performs an expertise search for a particular application specific group of an alarm batch the search component can determine a preferred order of expert notifications based on the candidate experts scores for the particular application type associated with the group.

Technical experts system managers and supervisors can access the GAAB system via user interfaces served by the system to the users client devices e.g. client devices of by user interface component . In some embodiments the user interfaces may comprise hypertext transfer protocol HTTP interfaces delivered to the client devices by the cloud platform services. The user interface can include screens for entering expert level data e.g. the data recorded in the data record illustrated in notification screens for providing information about a detected alarm event acknowledgment screens for acknowledging alarm events or confirming that reworking of an alarm is approved screens for entering customer contract information and other such interface screens. The user interface can also include screens that allow the user to query the data storage areas of the GAAB system for alarm information including but not limited to alarm statuses a history of service for a given alarm or expert alarm statistics for a selected production area or machine etc. Users can also query the system via the user interface for contact information for other experts system managers etc. Technical experts can also access technical documents maintained on cloud storage by the GAAB system in some embodiments.

In some embodiments the GAAB system also allows a system manager to score the work performed in connection with an alarm event. In such embodiments the system manager can log onto the system after completion of service and provide a score for the work performed. Based on the score received from the system manager s account the system can update the score associated with the expert involved in providing the service. The score may be reflected in an overall score stored in the expert s record on expert database or may be reflected in an application or technology specific score for the expert depending on the relevant application or technology associated with the alarm event. The user interface can also include a service report editing screen that allows an expert to prepare a report for a given service action which can be stored with the application level data in application level database . The system manager can access this report to assist in determining a suitable score for the service provided typically after acknowledging completion of the alarm event by accepting the completion notification see .

At step the harmonized alarm record is added to an alarm batch comprising other harmonized alarm records. At the alarm batch is transferred to an entry queue of the cloud based alarm processing system for further alarm processing.

At a determination is made regarding whether the application type associated with the application alarm group can be addressed by a support entity that is local to the customer site at which the alarm was generated. For example the system can determine whether local support for the identified application type is available based on application level data stored on a cloud based application database. This application level data can define one or more local support entities if available for respective application types. If local support is available the methodology moves to step where a filter is applied to the application sorted alarm set to eliminate redundant alarm records. At the filtered alarm group is submitted to a search component and an application mode search is performed for one or more technical experts capable of assisting with alarms relating to the alarm set s application type. For example the search component may select a set of relevant technical experts based on a search of a cloud based expert database containing information about respective technical support experts. Information maintained in the expert database for each technical support expert can include for example areas of technology expertise a time zone in which the expert resides the expert s geographic location current availability and a score indicating a degree of expertise for a given type of application or technology. At a notification is sent to at least one of the one or more technical experts identified at step . The notification can be sent to a client device associated with the technical expert e.g. a mobile phone a desktop laptop tablet computer etc. and can include information about the alarm events in the alarm set and the industrial entity e.g. customer requiring assistance with the alarm. In conjunction with the notification the system can also generate a service ticket that tracks the service statuses of each alarm in the alarm set.

Alternatively if it is determined at step that no local support is available the methodology moves to step wherein the alarm records in the application alarm group are further sorted according to technology to yield one or more technology sorted alarm groups. For example the worker role component can execute a script that sorts the alarm records according to a Technology field included in each of the harmonized alarm records where the Technology field indicates a technology to which the alarm event relates e.g. a PLC alarm an SQL alarm etc. . At a filter is applied to the technology sorted alarm groups to eliminate redundant alarm records and to correlate related alarms within each group. At the sorted and filtered alarm set is submitted to the search component and for each technology group of the set a technology mode search is performed for one or more technical experts capable of assisting with alarms relating to the groups technology and or application types. At a notification is sent to at least one of the one or more technical experts identified at step .

At a determination is made regarding whether the set of experts identified at step includes a subset of experts who are both available and located in the same time zone as the location of the alarm event identified by the alarm record. The alarm processing system can make this determination for example based on time zone and availability information for the respective experts maintained in the expert database. If a subset of available experts in the local time zone are identified the methodology moves to step where the subset of the technical experts who are in the local time zone are selected. Alternatively if no technical experts are found in the local time zone or if all technical experts in the local time zone are currently unavailable the methodology moves to step where a subset of available technical experts in a different time zone are selected from the set of experts identified at step .

At a notification is sent to at least one expert in the subset selected at step or the notification requesting assistance with the alarm event identified by the alarm record.

The methodology continues in . At the alarm record s status is set to Waiting and the alarm processing system awaits acknowledgment that service is being performed in connection with the alarm event. The acknowledgment can be received for example via a user interface served to the expert s client device by the alarm processing system. At a determination is made regarding whether the acknowledgement was received before expiration of a timeout duration. If the acknowledgement that the alarm event is being serviced is received before expiration of the timeout duration the methodology moves to step where the alarm record s status is set to Served and the alarm processing system awaits acknowledgement that the alarm event has been served. Alternatively if the acknowledgement is not received prior to expiration of the timeout the methodology moves to step where the alarm record s status is set to Escalate a notification is sent to a client device associated with a system manager indicating that a pending alarm has not received acknowledgement of service and the system awaits receipt of a rework acknowledgement from the system manager.

If the alarm record has been placed in Served status at step a determination is made at step regarding whether an acknowledgment that the alarm event has been served was received prior to expiration of a timeout duration. This acknowledgement indicates that the notified expert has resolved the alarm event identified by the alarm record. If the acknowledgement is received before the timeout duration has expired the methodology moves to step where the alarm record s status is set to Completed and the methodology ends. Alternatively if the acknowledgement is not received prior to expiration of the timeout the methodology moves to step where the alarm record s status is set to Escalate the system manager is notified and the alarm processing system awaits receipt of a rework acknowledgement from the system manager.

If the alarm record is placed in the Escalate state at step the methodology continues in . At step the rework acknowledgement is received from the system manager. The rework acknowledgement is an indication of whether the system manager wishes the escalated alarm to be reprocessed or discarded. At a determination is made regarding whether the rework acknowledgement is a YES acknowledgement indicating that the system manager wishes to rework the alarm record. If the rework acknowledgement is a YES acknowledgement the methodology moves to step where the alarm record is sent back to the search component for reprocessing. Alternatively if the rework acknowledgement is a NO acknowledgment indicating that the system manager does not wish the alarm record to be reprocessed the methodology moves to step where the alarm record s status is set to Completed and the methodology ends.

Embodiments systems and components described herein as well as industrial control systems and industrial automation environments in which various aspects set forth in the subject specification can be carried out can include computer or network components such as servers clients programmable logic controllers PLCs automation controllers communications modules mobile computers wireless components control components and so forth which are capable of interacting across a network. Computers and servers include one or more processors electronic integrated circuits that perform logic operations employing electric signals configured to execute instructions stored in media such as random access memory RAM read only memory ROM a hard drives as well as removable memory devices which can include memory sticks memory cards flash drives external hard drives and so on.

Similarly the term PLC or automation controller as used herein can include functionality that can be shared across multiple components systems and or networks. As an example one or more PLCs or automation controllers can communicate and cooperate with various network devices across the network. This can include substantially any type of control communications module computer Input Output I O device sensor actuator and human machine interface HMI that communicate via the network which includes control automation and or public networks. The PLC or automation controller can also communicate to and control various other devices such as standard or safety rated I O modules including analog digital programmed intelligent I O modules other programmable controllers communications modules sensors actuators output devices and the like.

The network can include public networks such as the internet intranets and automation networks such as control and information protocol CIP networks including DeviceNet ControlNet and Ethernet IP. Other networks include Ethernet DH DH Remote I O Fieldbus Modbus Profibus CAN wireless networks serial protocols and so forth. In addition the network devices can include various possibilities hardware and or software components . These include components such as switches with virtual local area network VLAN capability LANs WANs proxies gateways routers firewalls virtual private network VPN devices servers clients computers configuration tools monitoring tools and or other devices.

In order to provide a context for the various aspects of the disclosed subject matter as well as the following discussion are intended to provide a brief general description of a suitable environment in which the various aspects of the disclosed subject matter may be implemented.

With reference to an example environment for implementing various aspects of the aforementioned subject matter includes a computer . The computer includes a processing unit a system memory and a system bus . The system bus couples system components including but not limited to the system memory to the processing unit . The processing unit can be any of various available processors. Multi core microprocessors and other multiprocessor architectures also can be employed as the processing unit .

The system bus can be any of several types of bus structure s including the memory bus or memory controller a peripheral bus or external bus and or a local bus using any variety of available bus architectures including but not limited to 8 bit bus Industrial Standard Architecture ISA Micro Channel Architecture MSA Extended ISA EISA Intelligent Drive Electronics IDE VESA Local Bus VLB Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI Universal Serial Bus USB Advanced Graphics Port AGP Personal Computer Memory Card International Association bus PCMCIA and Small Computer Systems Interface SCSI .

The system memory includes volatile memory and nonvolatile memory . The basic input output system BIOS containing the basic routines to transfer information between elements within the computer such as during start up is stored in nonvolatile memory . By way of illustration and not limitation nonvolatile memory can include read only memory ROM programmable ROM PROM electrically programmable ROM EPROM electrically erasable PROM EEPROM or flash memory. Volatile memory includes random access memory RAM which acts as external cache memory. By way of illustration and not limitation RAM is available in many forms such as synchronous RAM SRAM dynamic RAM DRAM synchronous DRAM SDRAM double data rate SDRAM DDR SDRAM enhanced SDRAM ESDRAM Synchlink DRAM SLDRAM and direct Rambus RAM DRRAM .

Computer also includes removable non removable volatile nonvolatile computer storage media. illustrates for example a disk storage . Disk storage includes but is not limited to devices like a magnetic disk drive floppy disk drive tape drive Jaz drive Zip drive LS 100 drive flash memory card or memory stick. In addition disk storage can include storage media separately or in combination with other storage media including but not limited to an optical disk drive such as a compact disk ROM device CD ROM CD recordable drive CD R Drive CD rewritable drive CD RW Drive or a digital versatile disk ROM drive DVD ROM . To facilitate connection of the disk storage to the system bus a removable or non removable interface is typically used such as interface .

It is to be appreciated that describes software that acts as an intermediary between users and the basic computer resources described in suitable operating environment . Such software includes an operating system . Operating system which can be stored on disk storage acts to control and allocate resources of the computer . System applications take advantage of the management of resources by operating system through program modules and program data stored either in system memory or on disk storage . It is to be appreciated that one or more embodiments of the subject disclosure can be implemented with various operating systems or combinations of operating systems.

A user enters commands or information into the computer through input device s . Input devices include but are not limited to a pointing device such as a mouse trackball stylus touch pad keyboard microphone joystick game pad satellite dish scanner TV tuner card digital camera digital video camera web camera and the like. These and other input devices connect to the processing unit through the system bus via interface port s . Interface port s include for example a serial port a parallel port a game port and a universal serial bus USB . Output device s use some of the same type of ports as input device s . Thus for example a USB port may be used to provide input to computer and to output information from computer to an output device . Output adapters are provided to illustrate that there are some output devices like monitors speakers and printers among other output devices which require special adapters. The output adapters include by way of illustration and not limitation video and sound cards that provide a means of connection between the output device and the system bus . It should be noted that other devices and or systems of devices provide both input and output capabilities such as remote computer s .

Computer can operate in a networked environment using logical connections to one or more remote computers such as remote computer s . The remote computer s can be a personal computer a server a router a network PC a workstation a microprocessor based appliance a peer device or other common network node and the like and typically includes many or all of the elements described relative to computer . For purposes of brevity only a memory storage device is illustrated with remote computer s . Remote computer s is logically connected to computer through a network interface and then physically connected via communication connection . Network interface encompasses communication networks such as local area networks LAN and wide area networks WAN . LAN technologies include Fiber Distributed Data Interface FDDI Copper Distributed Data Interface CDDI Ethernet IEEE 802.3 Token Ring IEEE 802.5 and the like. WAN technologies include but are not limited to point to point links circuit switching networks like Integrated Services Digital Networks ISDN and variations thereon packet switching networks and Digital Subscriber Lines DSL .

Communication connection s refers to the hardware software employed to connect the network interface to the system bus . While communication connection is shown for illustrative clarity inside computer it can also be external to computer . The hardware software necessary for connection to the network interface includes for exemplary purposes only internal and external technologies such as modems including regular telephone grade modems cable modems and DSL modems ISDN adapters and Ethernet cards.

What has been described above includes examples of the subject innovation. It is of course not possible to describe every conceivable combination of components or methodologies for purposes of describing the disclosed subject matter but one of ordinary skill in the art may recognize that many further combinations and permutations of the subject innovation are possible. Accordingly the disclosed subject matter is intended to embrace all such alterations modifications and variations that fall within the spirit and scope of the appended claims.

In particular and in regard to the various functions performed by the above described components devices circuits systems and the like the terms including a reference to a means used to describe such components are intended to correspond unless otherwise indicated to any component which performs the specified function of the described component e.g. a functional equivalent even though not structurally equivalent to the disclosed structure which performs the function in the herein illustrated exemplary aspects of the disclosed subject matter. In this regard it will also be recognized that the disclosed subject matter includes a system as well as a computer readable medium having computer executable instructions for performing the acts and or events of the various methods of the disclosed subject matter.

In addition while a particular feature of the disclosed subject matter may have been disclosed with respect to only one of several implementations such feature may be combined with one or more other features of the other implementations as may be desired and advantageous for any given or particular application. Furthermore to the extent that the terms includes and including and variants thereof are used in either the detailed description or the claims these terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising. 

In this application the word exemplary is used to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any aspect or design described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other aspects or designs. Rather use of the word exemplary is intended to present concepts in a concrete fashion.

Various aspects or features described herein may be implemented as a method apparatus or article of manufacture using standard programming and or engineering techniques. The term article of manufacture as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device carrier or media. For example computer readable media can include but are not limited to magnetic storage devices e.g. hard disk floppy disk magnetic strips . . . optical disks e.g. compact disk CD digital versatile disk DVD . . . smart cards and flash memory devices e.g. card stick key drive . . . .

