---

title: Lane changing for autonomous vehicles
abstract: Various manners of changing travel lanes for an autonomous vehicle are described. A target gap between a pair of neighboring vehicles located in a travel lane that is adjacent to the current travel lane of the autonomous vehicle can be identified. It can be determined whether the size of the first target gap is acceptable or unacceptable. Responsive to determining that the size of the first target gap is unacceptable, an alternative lane changing maneuver for the autonomous vehicle can be determined. The autonomous vehicle can be caused to implement the alternative lane changing maneuver.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09475491&OS=09475491&RS=09475491
owner: Toyota Motor Engineering & Manufacturing North America, Inc.
number: 09475491
owner_city: Erlanger
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150608
---
The subject matter described herein relates in general to vehicles having an autonomous or highly automated operational mode and more particularly to the lane changing operation of such vehicles.

Some vehicles include an operational mode in which a computing system is used to navigate and or maneuver the vehicle along a travel route with minimal or no input from a human driver. Such vehicles are equipped with sensors that are configured to detect information about the surrounding environment including the presence of objects in the environment. The computing systems are configured to process the detected information to determine how to navigate and or maneuver the vehicle through the surrounding environment including maneuvers to change the travel lane of the vehicle.

In one respect the present disclosure is directed to a method of changing travel lanes for an autonomous vehicle. The method includes identifying a first target gap between a first pair of neighboring vehicles located in a travel lane adjacent to the current travel lane of the autonomous vehicle. The first target gap can have an associated size. The method also includes determining whether the size of the first target gap is acceptable or unacceptable. The method further includes responsive to determining that the size of the first target gap is unacceptable determining an alternative lane changing maneuver for the autonomous vehicle. The method can include causing the autonomous vehicle to implement the alternative lane changing maneuver.

In another respect the present disclosure is directed to a system for changing travel lanes for an autonomous vehicle. The system can include a sensor system. The sensor system can be operable to detect objects in an external environment of the autonomous vehicle such as objects located in a travel lane adjacent to the current travel lane of the autonomous vehicle. The system includes a processor operatively connected to the sensor system. The processor can be programmed to initiate executable operations. The executable operations can include identifying a first target gap between a first pair of neighboring vehicles located in a travel lane adjacent to the current travel lane of the autonomous vehicle. The first target gap can have an associated size. The executable operations can also include determining whether the size of the first target gap is acceptable or unacceptable. The executable operations further includes responsive to determining that the size of the first target gap is unacceptable determining an alternative lane changing maneuver for the autonomous vehicle. The executable operations can include causing the autonomous vehicle to implement the alternative lane changing maneuver.

In yet another respect the present disclosure is directed to a computer program product for changing travel lanes for an autonomous vehicle. The computer program product can include a computer readable storage medium having program code embodied therein. The program code can be executable by a processor to perform a method. The method includes identifying a first target gap between a first pair of neighboring vehicles located in a travel lane adjacent to the current travel lane of the autonomous vehicle. The first target gap can have an associated size. The method also includes determining whether the size of the first target gap is acceptable or unacceptable. The method further includes responsive to determining that the size of the first target gap is unacceptable determining an alternative lane changing maneuver for the autonomous vehicle. The method can include causing the autonomous vehicle to implement the alternative lane changing maneuver.

This detailed description relates to lane changing for autonomous vehicles. A target gap between a pair of neighboring vehicles located in a travel lane adjacent to a current travel lane of the autonomous vehicle can be identified. Responsive to determining that the size of the target gap is unacceptable an alternative lane changing maneuver for the autonomous vehicle can be determined. The autonomous vehicle can be caused to implement the alternative lane changing maneuver. The present detailed description relates to systems methods and computer program products that incorporate one or more of such features. In at least some instances such systems methods and computer program products can among other things improve the performance of an autonomous vehicle.

Detailed embodiments are disclosed herein however it is to be understood that the disclosed embodiments are intended only as exemplary. Therefore specific structural and functional details disclosed herein are not to be interpreted as limiting but merely as a basis for the claims and as a representative basis for teaching one skilled in the art to variously employ the aspects herein in virtually any appropriately detailed structure. Further the terms and phrases used herein are not intended to be limiting but rather to provide an understandable description of possible implementations. Various embodiments are shown in but the embodiments are not limited to the illustrated structure or application.

It will be appreciated that for simplicity and clarity of illustration where appropriate reference numerals have been repeated among the different figures to indicate corresponding or analogous elements. In addition numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the embodiments described herein. However it will be understood by those of ordinary skill in the art that the embodiments described herein can be practiced without these specific details.

Referring to an example a vehicle is shown. As used herein vehicle means any form of motorized transport. In one or more implementations the vehicle can be an automobile. While arrangements will be described herein with respect to automobiles it will be understood that embodiments are not limited to automobiles. In some implementations the vehicle may be a watercraft an aircraft or any other form of motorized transport.

According to arrangements herein the vehicle can be an autonomous vehicle. As used herein autonomous vehicle means a vehicle that configured to operate in an autonomous mode. Autonomous mode means that one or more computing systems are used to navigate and or maneuver the vehicle along a travel route with minimal or no input from a human driver. In one or more arrangements the vehicle can be highly automated. In some instances the vehicle can be configured to be selectively switched between an autonomous mode and a manual mode. Such switching can be implemented in any suitable manner now known or later developed. Manual mode means that a majority of the navigation and or maneuvering of the vehicle along a travel route is performed by a human driver.

The vehicle can have an associated longitudinal axis which can be the central axis of the vehicle . The vehicle can have an associated longitudinal direction . Longitudinal direction means any direction that is substantially parallel to and or co linear with the longitudinal axis . The vehicle can have an associated lateral axis which can be substantially perpendicular to the longitudinal axis . As used herein the term substantially includes exactly the term it modifies and slight variations therefrom. Thus the term substantially perpendicular means exactly perpendicular and slight variations therefrom. In this particular example slight variations therefrom can include within normal manufacturing tolerances within about 10 degrees or less within about 5 degrees or less within about 4 degrees or less within about 3 degrees or less within about 2 degrees or less or within about 1 degree or less. The vehicle can have an associated lateral direction . Lateral direction means any direction that is substantially parallel to and or co linear with the lateral axis .

The vehicle can include various elements some of which can be a part of an autonomous driving system. Some of the possible elements of the vehicle are shown in and will now be described. It will be understood that it is not necessary for the vehicle to have all of the elements shown in or described herein. The vehicle can have any combination of the various elements shown in . Further the vehicle can have additional elements to those shown in . In some arrangements vehicle may not include one or more of the elements shown in . Further while the various elements are shown as being located within the vehicle in it will be understood that one or more of these elements can be located external to the vehicle . Further the elements shown may be physically separated by large distances.

The vehicle can include one or more processors . Processor means any component or group of components that are configured to execute any of the processes described herein or any form of instructions to carry out such processes or cause such processes to be performed. The processor may be implemented with one or more general purpose and or one or more special purpose processors. Examples of suitable processors include microprocessors microcontrollers DSP processors and other circuitry that can execute software. Further examples of suitable processors include but are not limited to a central processing unit CPU an array processor a vector processor a digital signal processor DSP a field programmable gate array FPGA a programmable logic array PLA an application specific integrated circuit ASIC programmable logic circuitry and a controller. The processor can include at least one hardware circuit e.g. an integrated circuit configured to carry out instructions contained in program code. In arrangements in which there is a plurality of processors such processors can work independently from each other or one or more processors can work in combination with each other. In one or more arrangements the processor can be a main processor of the vehicle . For instance the processor can be an engine control unit ECU .

The vehicle can include one or more data stores for storing one or more types of data. The data store can include volatile and or non volatile memory. Examples of suitable data stores include RAM Random Access Memory flash memory ROM Read Only Memory PROM Programmable Read Only Memory EPROM Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory EEPROM Electrically Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory registers magnetic disks optical disks hard drives or any other suitable storage medium or any combination thereof. The data store can be a component of the processor or the data store can be operatively connected to the processor for use thereby. The term operatively connected as used throughout this description can include direct or indirect connections including connections without direct physical contact.

The vehicle can include an autonomous driving module . The autonomous driving module can be implemented as computer readable program code that when executed by a processor implement various processes described herein including for example determining an altered travel route for the autonomous vehicle and implementing the determined altered travel route. The autonomous driving module can be a component of the processor or the autonomous driving module can be executed on and or distributed among other processing systems to which the processor is operatively connected.

The autonomous driving module can include instructions e.g. program logic executable by the processor . Such instructions can include instructions to execute various vehicle functions and or to transmit data to receive data from interact with and or control the vehicle or one or more systems thereof e.g. one or more of vehicle systems . Alternatively or in addition the data store may contain such instructions.

As noted above the vehicle can include a sensor system . The sensor system can include one or more sensors. Sensor means any device component and or system that can detect determine assess monitor measure quantify and or sense something. The one or more sensors can be configured to detect determine assess monitor measure quantify and or sense in real time. As used herein the term real time means a level of processing responsiveness that a user or system senses as sufficiently immediate for a particular process or determination to be made or that enables the processor to keep up with some external process.

In arrangements in which the sensor system includes a plurality of sensors the sensors can work independently from each other. Alternatively two or more of the sensors can work in combination with each other. In such case the two or more sensors can form a sensor network. The sensor system and or the one or more sensors can be operatively connected to the processor the data store the autonomous driving module and or one or more other modules and or elements of the vehicle .

The sensor system can include any suitable type of sensor. For example the sensor system can include one or more sensors configured to detect determine assess monitor measure quantify and or sense information about the vehicle . Alternatively or in addition the sensor system can include one or more sensors configured to detect determine assess monitor measure quantify and or sense information about the external environment in which the vehicle is located including information about objects in the external environment. Such objects may be stationary object or moving objects. Alternatively or in addition to one or more of the above examples the sensor system can include one or more sensors configured to detect determine assess monitor measure quantify and or sense the location of the vehicle and or the location of objects in the environment relative to the vehicle . Various examples of these and other types of sensors will be described herein. It will be understood that the embodiments are not limited to the particular sensors described.

The sensor system can include one or more sensors configured to detect determine assess monitor measure quantify and or sense position and orientation changes of the vehicle such as for example based on inertial acceleration. In one or more arrangements the sensor system can include accelerometers gyroscopes and or other suitable sensors. The sensor system can include sensors that can monitor one or more internal systems of the vehicle e.g. an monitor a fuel gauge an engine oil temperature coolant temperature etc. .

The sensor system can include one or more environment sensors . The environment sensors can be configured to detect determine assess monitor measure quantify and or sense objects in at least a portion of the external environment of the vehicle and or information data about such objects. Various examples of the environment sensors will be described herein. However it will be understood that the embodiments are not limited to the particular sensors described.

In one or more arrangements one or more of the environment sensors can use at least in part radio signals e.g. RADAR sensors . The one or more radio based sensors can be configured to detect determine assess monitor measure quantify and or sense directly or indirectly the presence of one or more objects in the external environment of the vehicle the position of each detected object relative to the vehicle the distance between each detected object and the vehicle in one or more directions e.g. in the longitudinal direction the lateral direction and or other direction s the speed of each detected object and or the movement of each detected object.

In one or more arrangements one or more of the environment sensors can use at least in part laser signals e.g. LIDAR sensors . For instance one or more of the environment sensors can be or included as part of a laser rangefinder or a LIDAR. Such devices can include a laser source and or laser scanner configured to emit a laser and a detector configured to detect reflections of the laser. The laser rangefinder or LIDAR may be configured to operate in a coherent or an incoherent detection mode. The one or more laser based sensors can be configured to detect determine assess monitor measure quantify and or sense directly or indirectly the presence of one or more objects in the external environment of the vehicle the position of each detected object relative to the vehicle the distance between each detected object and the vehicle in one or more directions e.g. in the longitudinal direction the lateral direction and or other direction s the speed of each detected object and or the movement of each detected object.

In one or more arrangements one or more of the environment sensors can use at least in part ultrasound signals. Such sensors can include an ultrasound source configured to emit ultrasonic signals and a detector configured to detect reflections of the ultrasonic signal. The one or more ultrasound based environment sensors can be configured to detect determine assess monitor measure quantify and or sense directly or indirectly the presence of one or more objects in the external environment of the vehicle the position of each detected object relative to the vehicle the distance between each detected object and the vehicle in one or more directions e.g. in the longitudinal direction the lateral direction and or other direction s the speed of each detected object and or the movement of each detected object. Such detecting can be based on a characteristic e.g. the intensity of a reflected ultrasonic signal.

In one or more arrangements one or more of the environment sensors can include one or more cameras. Camera is defined as any device component and or system that can capture at least visual data. Visual data includes video and or image information data. The visual data can be in any suitable form.

In one or more arrangements one or more of the cameras can include a lens not shown and an image capture element not shown . The image capture element can be any suitable type of image capturing device or system including for example an area array sensor a Charge Coupled Device CCD sensor a Complementary Metal Oxide Semiconductor CMOS sensor or a linear array sensor just to name a few possibilities. The image capture element may capture images in any suitable wavelength on the electromagnetic spectrum. The image capture element may capture color images and or grayscale images. One or more of the cameras can be configured with zoom in and or zoom out capabilities.

The one or more cameras can be located in any suitable portion of the vehicle . For instance one or more of the cameras can be located within the vehicle . One or more of the cameras can be located on the exterior of the vehicle . One or more of the cameras can be located on or exposed to the exterior of the vehicle . The position of one or more of the cameras can be fixed such that its position does not change relative to the vehicle . One or more of the cameras can be movable so that its position can change to allow visual data from different portions of the external environment of the vehicle to be captured. The movement of such cameras can be achieved in any suitable manner. The cameras can have any suitable range of motion including for example substantially spherical substantially hemi spherical substantially circular and or substantially linear.

Alternatively or in addition to any of the sensors described above the sensor system can include other types of sensors. The sensor system the processor and or one or more of the modules can be operable to control movements of one or more of the sensors of the sensor system . It should be noted that any of the sensors described herein can be provided in any suitable location with respect to the vehicle . For instance one or more sensors can be located within the vehicle one or more sensors can be located on the exterior of the vehicle and or one or more sensors can be located so as to be exposed to the exterior of the vehicle .

The vehicle can include an input system . An input system is defined as any device component system element or arrangement or groups thereof that enable information data to be entered into a machine. The input system can receive an input from a vehicle occupant e.g. a driver or a passenger . Any suitable input system can be used including for example a keypad display touch screen multi touch screen button joystick mouse trackball microphone and or combinations thereof.

The vehicle can include an output system . An output system is defined as any device component system element or arrangement or groups thereof that enable information data to be presented to a vehicle occupant e.g. a person a vehicle occupant etc. . The output system can include a display as described above. Alternatively or in addition the output system may include a microphone earphone and or speaker. Some components of the vehicle may serve as both a component of the input system and a component of the output system .

In one or more arrangements the vehicle can include an object identification module . In one or more arrangements the object identification module can include artificial or computational intelligence elements e.g. neural network fuzzy logic or other machine learning algorithms. In some arrangements the sensor system the processor and or the object identification module can be configured to detect determine assess measure quantify and or sense directly or indirectly one or more dimensions of a detected object. For instance based on information data received from one or more sensors of the sensor system a direct measurement of one or more dimensions of a detected object can be determined. Examples of dimensions that can be detected determined assessed measured quantified and or sensed directly or indirectly include length width and or height.

In some arrangements the sensor system the processor and or the object identification module can be configured to detect determine assess measure quantify and or sense directly or indirectly a relative size of at least a portion of a detected object. In this regard a large object is any object that has one or more dimensions greater than a predetermined dimension or is otherwise presumed to be large based on one or more factors. A non large object is any object that has one or more dimensions less than a predetermined dimension or is otherwise presumed to be non large based on one or more factors.

The relative size of a detected object can be determined in any suitable manner. For instance a detected dimension of the object e.g. length width and or height can be compared to a predetermined dimension. The predetermined dimension can have any suitable value. In one or more arrangements if the detected dimension is greater than the predetermined dimension the object can be determined classified and or considered to be a large object. Such a comparison determination classification and or consideration can be made by for example the processor and or the object identification module . If the detected dimension is less than or equal to the predetermined dimension the object can be determined classified or considered to be a non large object.

In one or more arrangements the predetermined dimension can be a predetermined length. In such arrangements the relative size of a detected object can be determined with respect to the predetermined length. For example the length of an object can be detected. The detected length of the object can be compared to a predetermined length. The predetermined length can be any suitable length. In one or more arrangements the predetermined length can be substantially equal to or greater than the length of the vehicle . In one or more arrangements such as in the case of smaller vehicles the predetermined length can be a value that is greater than the length of the vehicle . In some arrangements if the detected length is greater than the predetermined length the object can be determined classified and or considered to be a large object. If the detected length is less than or equal to the predetermined length the object can be determined classified and or considered to be a non large object.

Alternatively or in addition the relative size of the object can be determined based on one or more inputs. For instance the sensor system can be configured to detect determine assess measure quantify and or sense directly or indirectly the number of wheels or tires on a side of an object. Based on the number of detected wheels or tires the processor and or the object identification module can determine whether the object is a large object. For instance if more than two wheels are detected on a side of a surrounding object then it can be determined to be a large object e.g. a truck .

Alternatively or in addition the sensor system the processor and or the object identification module can be configured to detect determine assess measure quantify and or sense directly or indirectly the size of the wheels or tires of an object. As an example the wheels or tires of the object can have an associated diameter and or radius. The size of the wheels or tires can be determined by a direct measurement of a diameter or radius of a wheel or tire. In some arrangements the detected diameter or radius of the tires or wheels can be compared to a predetermined diameter or radius. The predetermined diameter or radius can be any suitable value. In one or more arrangements the predetermined diameter or radius can be substantially equal to the diameter or radius of the tires or wheels of the vehicle . In one or more arrangements such as in the case of vehicles with smaller wheels or tires the predetermined diameter or radius can be a value that is greater than the diameter or radius of the tires or wheels of the vehicle . If the detected diameter or radius is greater than the predetermined diameter or radius the object can be determined to be a large or long object. If the detected diameter or radius is less than or equal to the predetermined diameter or radius the object can be determined classified and or considered to be a non large object. Such a comparison and or determination can be made by for example the processor and or the object identification module .

The object identification module can include and or have access to an object image database not shown . The objects image database can include one or more images of a plurality of different objects e.g. vehicles or portions thereof. Arrangements will be described herein in connection with vehicle but it will be understood that arrangements are not limited to vehicles. Indeed the object image database can include one or more images of non vehicular objects. The images may be of one or more portions of the exterior of at least a portion of a plurality of different vehicles. For instance the images can be of at least a portion of a vehicle. The images can be provided in any suitable format. The vehicle image database can be located on board the vehicle such as in the data store or it can be located in a source external to the vehicle e.g. in a cloud based data store .

As an example the object identification module can also include any suitable vehicle recognition software or other object recognition software. The vehicle recognition software can analyze an image captured by the sensor system . The vehicle recognition software can query the vehicle image database for possible matches. For instance images captured by the sensor system can be compared to images in the vehicle image database for possible matches. Alternatively or in addition measurements or other aspects of an image captured by the sensor system can be compared to measurements or other aspects of any images in the vehicle image database. The object identification module can identify the detected object as a particular type of vehicle if there is a match between the captured image and an image in the vehicle database.

In this context match or matches means that an image or other information collected by the sensor system and one or more of the images in the vehicle database are substantially identical. For instance the an image or other information collected by the sensor system and one or more of the images in the vehicle database can match within a predetermined probability e.g. at least about 85 at least about 90 at least about 95 or greater or confidence level.

The autonomous driving module the object identification module and or the processor can be configured to analyze data information including visual data captured by the sensor system to identify one or more objects in the external environment of the vehicle . In some arrangements one or more of these elements can be configured to identify the nature of the objects e.g. whether the object is a vehicle using any suitable technique including for example template matching and other kinds of computer vision and or image processing techniques and or other artificial or computational intelligence algorithms or machine learning methods.

The vehicle can include a lane change module . The lane change module can be implemented as computer readable program code that when executed by a processor implement the various processes described herein. The lane change module can be a component of the processor or the lane change module can be executed on and or distributed among other processing systems to which the processor is operatively connected.

The lane change module can be configured to detect analyze assess and or interpret information about a driving environment of the vehicle to determine one or more driving maneuvers that will result in the vehicle changing from its current travel lane to a different travel lane. The different travel lane can be substantially adjacent to the current travel lane of the vehicle . The lane change module can be used in various driving scenarios in which the vehicle moves from one travel lane to another. For instance the lane change module can be used for regular lane changing on a road. In addition the lane change module can be used in other traffic situations in which where the vehicle is trying to merge with other vehicular traffic that is flowing almost parallel to the vehicles current travel lane. Non limiting examples of such situations can include merging onto freeway and yielding to merging vehicles.

In some instances the travel lane into which the vehicle wishes to change may be free of other vehicles at least in the area near the vehicle . In such case the lane change module can be configured to cause a signaling system of the vehicle to be activated to indicate a desire to change travel lanes. The vehicle can then be caused to move into the travel lane.

In other instances there may be one or more vehicles in the travel lane into which the vehicle wishes to move. In such case the lane change module can be configured to identify one or more candidate gaps between neighboring vehicles into which the vehicle can merge. The one or more candidate gaps can be defined between a pair of neighboring vehicles. Neighboring vehicles means two vehicles that are in the same travel lane with no other vehicle between them. The gap between the neighboring vehicles can be defined by the distance between them in the travel direction of the travel lane. The pair of neighboring vehicles defining each gap can include a forward vehicle and a rearward vehicle.

The lane change module can be configured to identify one of the candidate gaps as a target gap. The target gap can be identified in any suitable manner based on one or more factors. For instance target gap can be selected based on its proximity to the current location of the vehicle the current size of the target gap the location of the target gap relative to a lane change trigger event the current speed of the vehicle the speed of one or more of the vehicles in the other travel lane the current location of the vehicle and or the current location of one or more other vehicles in the other travel lane just to name a few possibilities. However it will be understood that the identification of the target gap is not limited to these factors. Indeed the target gap can be identified based on one or more other factors other than those described. A lane change trigger event is any action along that travel route that would require the vehicle to move into a different travel lane to implement. Non limiting examples of lane change trigger events include turns exits lane endings lane closures on ramps and or off ramps just to name a few possibilities.

The lane change module can be configured to control the speed of the vehicle . The lane change module can be configured to control the speed of the vehicle so that it substantially matches the speed of the forward vehicle of the target gap. The lane change module can be configured to substantially maintain the vehicle at a position relative to the forward vehicle. For instance the lane change module can be configured to substantially maintain a predetermined forward distance is maintained between the vehicle and the forward vehicle. Forward distance means the distance between the vehicle and the forward vehicle in the longitudinal direction of the vehicle . The forward distance can be between a forward portion of the vehicle and a rearward portion of the forward vehicle. For instance the forward portion can be the forward most point of the vehicle and or the rearward most point of the forward vehicle. The lane change module can also be configured to substantially maintain a predetermined lateral distance between the vehicle and the forward vehicle. Lateral distance means the distance between the vehicle and the forward vehicle in the lateral direction of the vehicle .

The lane change module can be configured to activate a signaling system of the vehicle to indicate an intention of the vehicle to change travel lanes. For instance the lane change module can be configured to activate the appropriate turn signals of the vehicle . Thus the rearward vehicle and or the driver of the rearward vehicle of the target gap can be apprised of the intention of the vehicle to change travel lanes.

The target gap can have an associated size. The lane change module can be configured to determine whether the size of the target gap is acceptable or unacceptable. Such a determination can be performed continuously periodically or irregularly. Acceptable means that the size of the target gap is such that vehicle can safely maneuver into the target gap in the other travel lane. Safely maneuver means that there is little or no risk of impinging upon the vehicles forming the gap. Conversely unacceptable means that the size of the target gap is such that vehicle can maneuver into the target gap in the other travel lane at an elevated risk of impinging upon the vehicles forming the gap. The determination of whether the size of the target gap is acceptable or unacceptable can be based on the size of the gap the speed of the vehicle the speed of the forward and rearward vehicle forming the target gap and or the distance to the lane change trigger event just to name a few possibilities. However the determination of whether the size of the target gap is acceptable or unacceptable is not limited to these factors. Indeed such a determination can be made using one or more other factors alternatively or in addition to any of the factors noted above.

If the lane change module determined that the target gap is acceptable then the lane change module can be configured to cause the vehicle to merge into the target gap. If the lane change module determines that the target gap is unacceptable then the lane change module can be configured to determine an alternative lane changing maneuver. In one or more arrangements the alternative lane changing maneuver can be a less conservative lane change maneuver. A less conservative lane change maneuver is one that the vehicle would not normally implement under standard operating conditions. Various examples of a less conservative lane change maneuver less conservatively will be described herein. The less conservative mode still requires safe operation of the vehicle despite the elevated risk of impinging upon the vehicles forming the gap.

In some arrangements the sensor system the processor and or one or more other modules e.g. modules and or elements of the vehicle can be configured to detect determine assess monitor measure quantify and or sense directly or indirectly one or more aspects characteristics and or properties of a detected object. For example the sensor system the processor and or one or more of the modules can be configured to detect determine assess monitor measure quantify and or sense directly or indirectly the size relative size length width height a dimension the material a material property the speed the acceleration and or the trajectory of a detected object. In one or more arrangements one or more artificial or computational algorithms or machine learning methods can be used for such purposes.

The vehicle can include one or more vehicle systems . Various examples of the one or more vehicle systems are shown in . However the vehicle can include more fewer or different systems. It should be appreciated that although particular vehicle systems are separately defined each or any of the systems or portions thereof may be otherwise combined or segregated via hardware and or software within the vehicle .

The vehicle can include a propulsion system . The propulsion system can include one or more mechanisms devices elements components systems and or combinations thereof now known or later developed configured to provide powered motion for the vehicle . The propulsion system can include an engine and an energy source.

The engine can be any suitable type of engine or motor now known or later developed. For instance the engine can be an internal combustion engine an electric motor a steam engine and or a Stirling engine just to name a few possibilities. In some embodiments the propulsion system could include a plurality of engine types. For instance a gas electric hybrid vehicle can include a gasoline engine and an electric motor.

The energy source can be any suitable source of energy that can be used to at least partially power the engine. The engine can be configured to convert the energy source into mechanical energy. Examples of energy sources include gasoline diesel propane hydrogen other compressed gas based fuels ethanol solar panels batteries and or other sources of electrical power. Alternatively or in addition the energy source can include fuel tanks batteries capacitors and or flywheels. In some embodiments the energy source can be used to provide energy for other systems of the vehicle .

The vehicle can include wheels tires and or tracks. Any suitable type of wheels tires and or tracks can be used. In one or more arrangements the wheels tires and or tracks of the vehicle can be configured to rotate differentially with respect to other wheels tires and or tracks of the vehicle . The wheels tires and or tracks can be made of any suitable material.

The vehicle can include a braking system . The braking system can include one or more mechanisms devices elements components systems and or combinations thereof now known or later developed configured to decelerate the vehicle . As an example the braking system can use friction to slow the wheels tires. The braking system can convert the kinetic energy of the wheels tires to electric current.

Further the vehicle can include a steering system . The steering system can include one or more mechanisms devices elements components systems and or combinations thereof now known or later developed configured to adjust the heading of the vehicle .

The vehicle can include a throttle system . The throttle system can include one or more mechanisms devices elements components systems and or combinations thereof now known or later developed configured to control the operating speed of an engine motor of the vehicle and in turn the speed of the vehicle .

The vehicle can include a transmission system . The transmission system can include one or more mechanisms devices elements components systems and or combinations thereof now known or later developed configured to transmit mechanical power from the engine motor of the vehicle to the wheels tires. For instance the transmission system can include a gearbox clutch differential drive shafts and or other elements. In arrangements where the transmission system includes drive shafts the drive shafts can include one or more axles that are configured to be coupled to the wheels tires.

The vehicle can include a signaling system . The signaling system can include one or more mechanisms devices elements components systems and or combinations thereof now known or later developed configured to provide signals to the driver of the vehicle and or to provide information to drivers of other vehicles with respect to one or more aspects of the vehicle . For instance the signaling system can provide information regarding the vehicle s presence position size direction of travel and or the driver s intentions regarding direction and speed of travel. For instance the signaling system can include headlights taillights brake lights hazard lights and turn signal lights.

The vehicle can include a navigation system . The navigation system can include one or more mechanisms devices elements components systems applications and or combinations thereof now known or later developed configured to determine the geographic location of the vehicle and or to determine a travel route for the vehicle .

The navigation system can include one or more mapping applications to determine a travel route for the vehicle . For instance a driver or passenger may input an origin and a destination. The mapping application can determine one or more suitable travel routes between the origin and the destination. A travel route may be selected based on one or more parameters e.g. shortest travel distance shortest amount of travel time etc. . In some arrangements the navigation system can be configured to update the travel route dynamically while the vehicle is in operation.

The navigation system can include a global positioning system a local positioning system or a geolocation system. The navigation system can be implemented with any one of a number of satellite positioning systems such as the United States Global Positioning System GPS the Russian Glonass system the European Galileo system the Chinese Beidou system or any system that uses satellites from a combination of satellite systems or any satellite system developed in the future including the planned Chinese COMPASS system and the Indian Regional Navigational Satellite System. Further the navigation system can use Transmission Control Protocol TCP and or a Geographic information system GIS and location services.

The navigation system may include a transceiver configured to estimate a position of the vehicle with respect to the Earth. For example navigation system can include a GPS transceiver to determine the vehicle s latitude longitude and or altitude. The navigation system can use other systems e.g. laser based localization systems inertial aided GPS and or camera based localization to determine the location of the vehicle .

Alternatively or in addition the navigation system can be based on access point geolocation services such as using the W3C Geolocation Application Programming Interface API . With such a system the location of the vehicle can be determined through the consulting of location information servers including for example Internet protocol IP address Wi Fi and Bluetooth Media Access Control MAC address radio frequency identification RFID Wi Fi connection location or device GPS and Global System for Mobile Communications GSM code division multiple access CDMA cell IDs. Thus it will be understood that the specific manner in which the geographic position of the vehicle is determined will depend on the manner of operation of the particular location tracking system used.

The processor and or the autonomous driving module can be operatively connected to communicate with the various vehicle systems and or individual components thereof. For example returning to the processor and or the autonomous driving module can be in communication to send and or receive information from the various vehicle systems to control the movement speed maneuvering heading direction etc. of vehicle . The processor and or the autonomous driving module may control some or all of these vehicle systems and thus may be partially or fully autonomous.

The processor and or the autonomous driving module may be operable to control the navigation and or maneuvering of the vehicle by controlling one or more of the vehicle systems and or components thereof. For instance when operating in an autonomous mode the processor and or the autonomous driving module can control the direction and or speed of the vehicle . The processor and or the autonomous driving module can cause the vehicle to accelerate e.g. by increasing the supply of fuel provided to the engine decelerate e.g. by decreasing the supply of fuel to the engine and or by applying brakes and or change direction e.g. by turning the front two wheels . As used herein cause or causing means to make force compel direct command instruct and or enable an event or action to occur or at least be in a state where such event or action may occur either in a direct or indirect manner.

The vehicle can include one or more actuators . The actuators can be any element or combination of elements operable to modify adjust and or alter one or more of the vehicle systems or components thereof to responsive to receiving signals or other inputs from the processor the autonomous driving module the lane change module and or one or more other elements of the vehicle . Any suitable actuator can be used. For instance the one or more actuators can include motors pneumatic actuators hydraulic pistons relays solenoids and or piezoelectric actuators just to name a few possibilities.

According to arrangements described herein the vehicle can be configured for lane changing based on current conditions in the driving environment. In one or more arrangements responsive to determining that the size of a target gap is acceptable the vehicle can be caused to implement a standard lane change maneuver. In one or more arrangements responsive to determining that the size of a target gap is unacceptable an alternative lane changing maneuver can be determined. The alternative lane changing maneuver can be a less conservative lane changing maneuver while maintaining safe operation of the vehicle .

Now that the various potential systems devices elements and or components of the vehicle have been described various methods for changing travel lanes for an autonomous vehicle will now be described. Referring now to an example of a method of changing travel lanes for an autonomous vehicle is shown. Various possible steps of method will now be described. The method illustrated in may be applicable to the embodiments described above in relation to but it is understood that the method can be carried out with other suitable systems and arrangements. Moreover the method may include other steps that are not shown here and in fact the method is not limited to including every step shown in . The steps that are illustrated here as part of the method are not limited to this particular chronological order. Indeed some of the steps may be performed in a different order than what is shown and or at least some of the steps shown can occur simultaneously.

At block a first target gap between a first pair of neighboring vehicles located in a travel lane adjacent to the current travel lane of the autonomous vehicle can be identified. In one or more arrangements the first target gap can be identified based on data captured by the one or more sensors of the sensor system . The identifying of the first target gap can be performed by the processor the lane changing module and or the autonomous driving module . The identifying of the first target gap can be based on one or more factors as described herein. The method can continue to block . If no objects are detected in the external environment the method can return to block or the method can end.

At block it can be determined whether the size of the first target gap is acceptable or unacceptable. In one or more arrangements the size of the first target gap and or whether the size of the first target gap is acceptable can be determined based at least in part on data captured by the one or more sensors of the sensor system . The determining can be performed by the processor the lane changing module and or the autonomous driving module . Determining whether the size of the first target gap is acceptable or unacceptable can be based on one or more factors. Such a determination can be made by for example the lane changing module . The method can continue to block .

At block responsive to determining that the size of the first target gap is unacceptable an alternative lane changing maneuver for the autonomous vehicle can be determined. The determining can be performed by the processor the lane changing module and or the autonomous driving module . The method can continue to block .

At block the vehicle can be caused to implement the alternative lane changing maneuver. In one or more arrangements the processor the lane changing module and or the autonomous driving module can cause the vehicle to implement the alternative lane changing maneuver. The processor the lane changing module and or the autonomous driving module can be operatively connected to one or more of the vehicle systems to implement the alternative lane changing maneuver. In one or more arrangements the processor the lane changing module and or the autonomous driving module can be operable to control the one or more actuators which can control one or more of the vehicle systems or portions thereof to implement the alternative lane changing maneuver.

When the alternative lane changing maneuver is implemented the method can end. Alternatively the method can return to block . As a further alternative the method can include additional and or alternative blocks not shown . For instance the method can include responsive to determining that the size of the target gap is acceptable causing the vehicle to change travel lanes by maneuvering the vehicle into the target gap.

As another example in one or more arrangements a driver or other passenger of the vehicle can be prompted to provide permission to implement the alternative lane changing maneuver. In some arrangements such prompting may occur only if it is determined that there is sufficient time to receive a responsive input from the driver or passenger to implement the alternative lane changing maneuver.

The driver or other passenger can be prompted in any suitable manner. For instance the prompt can be displayed on a display in the vehicle . Alternatively or in addition the prompt can be audibly output to the driver or other passenger over one or more audial channels. Other forms of prompting can be used as an alternative or in addition to these forms of prompting.

The driver or passenger can grant or deny permission to implement the alternative lane changing maneuver in any suitable manner. For instance the driver or passenger can input the grant or denial of permission using one or more components of the input system . As an example the driver or passenger can provide an input through a touch screen button switch or other in vehicle user interface element. In some arrangements the driver or passenger can provide an input through engagement with one or more vehicle components e.g. turn signal brake pedal gas pedal etc. . A user interface element is defined as a component or a group of components that enables a user to interact with a machine. In one or more arrangements the driver or passenger can provide an input by speaking whether permission is granted or denied.

If an input is received granting permission the method can continue to block where as noted above the alternative lane changing maneuver can be implemented. If an input is received denying permission then the vehicle can take any suitable action such as presenting a warning switching to manual operation determining a different alternative lane changing maneuver or a system default action.

If an input is not received from the driver or passenger the vehicle can be automatically caused to implement the alternative lane changing maneuver or another system default driving action. In some arrangements a predetermined amount of time can be given for the driver or passenger to provide an input. The predetermined amount of time can be any suitable amount of time. The predetermined amount of time can vary depending on the circumstances in the environment. If an input is not received within the predetermined amount of time the alternative lane changing maneuver can be implemented or another system default driving action can be implemented.

Various non limiting examples of the operation of the vehicle will now be described. A non limiting example of the operation of the vehicle in accordance with a lane changing method will now be described in relation to . For purposes of this example the vehicle can be traveling in a driving environment . The vehicle can be traveling on a road . Road means a thoroughfare route path or way between two places and upon which a vehicle can travel. The road may be paved or otherwise improved to facilitate travel by a vehicle thereon. In some instances the road may be unpaved or undeveloped. The road may be a public road or a private road. The road can include or be a part of one or more bridges tunnels supporting structures junctions crossings interchanges and toll roads.

For this example the road can include a first travel lane and a second travel lane . A travel lane is a portion of a road that is designated for use by a single line of vehicles and or a portion of a road that is being used by a single line of vehicles. In some instances the one or more travel lanes can be designated by markings on the road or in any other suitable manner. In some instances the one or more travel lanes may not be marked. It should be noted that the first and second travel lanes can be substantially adjacent to each other as is shown in . However in some instances the first and second travel lanes can be spaced from each other. The first and second travel lanes can be substantially parallel to each other along at least a portion of their lengths.

For purposes of this example vehicles can move in or can be designated to move in a first direction in the first travel lane . Vehicles can move in or can be designated to move in a second direction in the second travel lane . The first direction can be the same as the second direction as is shown in .

While show an example in which the road includes two travel lanes it will be understood that arrangements described herein are not limited to roads having two travel lanes. Indeed arrangements described herein can be used in connection with roads having any number of travel lanes. Further it should be noted that the vehicles in such other travel lanes can travel in or can be designated to travel in the same direction as the first or second direction . Alternatively the vehicles in such other travel lanes can travel in or can be designated to travel in a different direction than the first or second direction .

In the current travel lane of the vehicle can be the first travel lane . Current travel lane means a travel lane that a vehicle is traveling on at the present time. Based on the travel route of the vehicle the vehicle may be approaching a lane change trigger event. For instance the lane change trigger event may be a right hand turn or a right hand exit that the vehicle may need to make at some point in the future in accordance with the planned travel route of the vehicle . A right hand turn or exit are merely two examples of lane change trigger events and are provided merely to facilitate the description. Accordingly it will be understood that arrangements described herein are not limited in this respect. Indeed the lane change trigger event can be a left hand turn a left hand exit the ending of a travel lane or a travel lane closure just to name a few additional possibilities.

For purposes of this example it will be assumed that an exit from the road can be accessed from the second travel lane only. That is the exit cannot be accessed from the first travel lane . However since the current travel lane of the vehicle is not the second travel lane the vehicle will need to maneuver into the second travel lane at a suitable distance before the exit.

The vehicle can detect the environment such as by using the sensor system . The vehicle can detect the presence of one or more objects e.g. vehicles in the second travel lane . The vehicle can determine a gap between one or more pairs of neighboring objects in the second travel lane . For example the vehicle can determine a gap between the vehicle and the vehicle and the vehicle can determine a gap between the vehicle and the vehicle . Such gaps can be considered to be candidate gaps.

Among the candidate gaps the vehicle can identify a target gap G. For this example the target gap Gcan be defined between the vehicle and the vehicle . Thus with respect to the target gap G the vehicle can be the rearward vehicle and the vehicle can be the forward vehicle.

Once the target gap Gis identified the vehicle can move within the first travel lane to a location that is substantially aligned with the back end of the forward vehicle as is shown in . Such movement may include changing the speed of the vehicle . For instance the vehicle may increase its speed to move from its position relative to the forward vehicle in to its position relative to the forward vehicle in .

The vehicle can control its speed so that it substantially matches the speed of the forward vehicle . In such case the front end of the vehicle can be substantially aligned with or slightly behind the back end of the forward vehicle as is shown in .

The signaling system of the vehicle can be activated to indicate an intention of the vehicle to change travel lanes. For instance as is shown in the right turn signal lights of the vehicle can be activated. Thus the rearward vehicle and or the driver of the rearward vehicle can be apprised of the intention of the vehicle to merge into the second travel lane .

The vehicle can determine whether the target gap is Gacceptable or unacceptable for purposes of lane changing. Such determining can be performed continuously or periodically while the vehicle substantially maintains its position relative to the forward vehicle shown in . In some instances the target gap Gmay already be acceptable. In such case the vehicle can be caused to maneuver from the first travel lane to the second travel lane .

In some instances the target gap Gmay not initially be acceptable but it can subsequently become acceptable. Accordingly the vehicle can substantially maintain the condition shown in to determine whether the size of the target gap Gbecomes acceptable. For instance in response to the activation of the right turn signals of the vehicle the rearward vehicle may reduce its speed such that the size of the target gap Gincreases as is shown in . In such case the vehicle can be caused to implement a lane changing maneuver from the first travel lane to the second travel lane as is shown in .

However in some instances the target gap Gmay be unacceptable and may not become acceptable prior to the vehicle reaching the lane change trigger event. For instance the driver of the rearward vehicle may be an aggressive driver or may be unwilling to allow the vehicle to merge into the second travel lane . Thus according to arrangements described herein the vehicle can be configured to determine one or more suitable alternative lane change maneuvers. The one or more alternative lane change maneuvers can be less conservative lane change maneuvers.

A non limiting example of the operation of the vehicle in such a manner will now be described in relation to . The above discussion with respect to the environment the road the travel lanes and the vehicles can apply equally to the environment the road the travel lanes and the vehicles . Further the above description with respect to can apply equally to . However in this example the rearward vehicle does not change its speed or may increase its speed such that the size of the target gap Gdecreases to an unacceptable size or remains an unacceptable size as is shown in . In such case the vehicle would not implement the standard lane changing maneuver described in connection with . Instead the vehicle can determine an alternative lane changing maneuver.

Such alternative lane change maneuver can be a less conservative lane change maneuver. shows an example in which the less conservative lane change maneuver is merging into the target gap G despite the size of the target gap Gbeing smaller than the standard acceptable size for the target gap G. In such case the target gap Gmay be considered to be acceptable under a less conservative acceptable size for the target gap G. The less conservative acceptable size is less than the standard acceptable size for the target gap G. In such case the vehicle can be caused to implement a lane changing maneuver from the first travel lane to the second travel lane as is shown in . The vehicle can continue to detect the environment so that that the lane changing can be safely implemented. If subsequent detections indicate that the lane changing cannot be safely implemented then the less conservative driving maneuver can be discontinued or adjusted.

Referring to the vehicle may not yield to the signaling by the vehicle . In this example the vehicle may increase its speed so that the size of the target gap Gcan decrease. In such case the vehicle can determine that the size of the target gap Gis unacceptable. Accordingly the vehicle can determine an alternative lane changing maneuver. In this instance the vehicle can determine that the vehicle is a large vehicle. For instance the object identification module can be used to determine that the vehicle is a large vehicle in any suitable manner. The vehicle may assume that the vehicle is a relatively slow moving vehicle based on its size. Such an assumption can be confirmed by data acquired by the sensor system .

Thus the vehicle can identify a new target gap G that is located forward of the target gap Gin the travel direction . The new target gap G may be defined by the large vehicle or the new target gap G can be located forward of the large vehicle in the travel direction and is not defined by the large vehicle . For purposes of this example the new target gap G can be defined by the vehicle and the large vehicle . The large vehicle can be the rearward vehicle defining the new target gap G.

The vehicle can increase its speed to overtake the large vehicle as is shown in . The vehicle can match its speed to the speed of the forward vehicle . The vehicle can activate its signaling system to indicate a desire to change to the second travel lane . The vehicle can repeat the process described above.

Still other alternative lane changing maneuvers are possible. Indeed for example the vehicle can reduce its speed in its current travel lane to identify a new target gap that may be located behind the initial target gap. As another example the vehicle can identify a slow moving vehicle located forward of the target gap Gin the travel direction . The vehicle can increase its speed to overtake the slow moving vehicle to identify a new target gap. Thus it will be understood that the alternative lane changing maneuvers are not limited to those described herein.

It will be appreciated that arrangements described herein can provide numerous benefits including one or more of the benefits mentioned herein. For example arrangements described herein can improve the performance of an autonomous vehicle. Further arrangements described herein can provide for greater flexibility in the operation of the autonomous vehicle e.g. by operating in a less conservative manner when a target gap is or becomes unacceptable . Arrangements described herein can provide such flexibility while maintaining safety for the vehicle occupants of the vehicle and or other objects in the external environment of the autonomous vehicle.

The flowcharts and block diagrams in the figures illustrate the architecture functionality and operation of possible implementations of systems methods and computer program products according to various embodiments. In this regard each block in the flowcharts or block diagrams may represent a module segment or portion of code which comprises one or more executable instructions for implementing the specified logical function s . It should also be noted that in some alternative implementations the functions noted in the block may occur out of the order noted in the figures. For example two blocks shown in succession may in fact be executed substantially concurrently or the blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order depending upon the functionality involved.

The systems components and or processes described above can be realized in hardware or a combination of hardware and software and can be realized in a centralized fashion in one processing system or in a distributed fashion where different elements are spread across several interconnected processing systems. Any kind of processing system or other apparatus adapted for carrying out the methods described herein is suited. A typical combination of hardware and software can be a processing system with computer usable program code that when being loaded and executed controls the processing system such that it carries out the methods described herein. The systems components and or processes also can be embedded in a computer readable storage such as a computer program product or other data programs storage device readable by a machine tangibly embodying a program of instructions executable by the machine to perform methods and processes described herein. These elements also can be embedded in an application product which comprises all the features enabling the implementation of the methods described herein and which when loaded in a processing system is able to carry out these methods.

Furthermore arrangements described herein may take the form of a computer program product embodied in one or more computer readable media having computer readable program code embodied or embedded e.g. stored thereon. Any combination of one or more computer readable media may be utilized. The computer readable medium may be a computer readable signal medium or a computer readable storage medium. The phrase computer readable storage medium means a non transitory storage medium. A computer readable storage medium may be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus or device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. More specific examples a non exhaustive list of the computer readable storage medium would include the following an electrical connection having one or more wires a portable computer diskette a hard disk drive HDD a solid state drive SSD a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory an optical fiber a portable compact disc read only memory CD ROM a digital versatile disc DVD an optical storage device a magnetic storage device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. In the context of this document a computer readable storage medium may be any tangible medium that can contain or store a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device.

Program code embodied on a computer readable medium may be transmitted using any appropriate medium including but not limited to wireless wireline optical fiber cable RF etc. or any suitable combination of the foregoing. Computer program code for carrying out operations for aspects of the present arrangements may be written in any combination of one or more programming languages including an object oriented programming language such as Java Smalltalk C or the like and conventional procedural programming languages such as the C programming language or similar programming languages. The program code may execute entirely on the user s computer partly on the user s computer as a stand alone software package partly on the user s computer and partly on a remote computer or entirely on the remote computer or server. In the latter scenario the remote computer may be connected to the user s computer through any type of network including a local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN or the connection may be made to an external computer for example through the Internet using an Internet Service Provider .

The terms a and an as used herein are defined as one or more than one. The term plurality as used herein is defined as two or more than two. The term another as used herein is defined as at least a second or more. The terms including and or having as used herein are defined as comprising i.e. open language . The phrase at least one of . . . and . . . as used herein refers to and encompasses any and all possible combinations of one or more of the associated listed items. As an example the phrase at least one of A B and C includes A only B only C only or any combination thereof e.g. AB AC BC or ABC .

Aspects herein can be embodied in other forms without departing from the spirit or essential attributes thereof. Accordingly reference should be made to the following claims rather than to the foregoing specification as indicating the scope of the invention.

