---

title: Method and apparatus for providing location information of user devices based on signal frequencies of transmitters
abstract: An approach is provided for providing location information of user devices based on signal frequencies of transmitters. The positioning platform processes and/or facilitates a processing of one or more signals, from one or more transmitters, captured at one or more user devices to determine one or more frequencies of the one or more signals. Next, the positioning platform determines device location information of the one or more user devices based, at least in part, on the one or more frequencies.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09557401&OS=09557401&RS=09557401
owner: Nokia Technologies Oy
number: 09557401
owner_city: Espoo
owner_country: FI
publication_date: 20151120
---
This application is a continuation of and claims priority to U.S. application Ser. No. 13 482 363 filed May 29 2012 the entire contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference.

Service providers and device manufacturers e.g. wireless cellular etc. are continually challenged to deliver value and convenience to consumers by for example providing compelling network services. One area of interest has been the development of services that offer user location information. Typically location information services utilize global positioning system GPS modules within mobile devices to provide users with their location information. However GPS tracking is generally not available indoors. Consequently other methods are necessary to track a user s indoor location and movements.

Therefore there is a need for an approach for providing location information of user devices based on signal frequencies of transmitters.

According to one embodiment a method comprises processing and or facilitating a processing of one or more signals from one or more transmitters captured at one or more user devices to determine one or more frequencies of the one or more signals. The method also comprises determining device location information of the one or more user devices based at least in part on the one or more frequencies.

According to another embodiment an apparatus comprises at least one processor and at least one memory including computer program code for one or more computer programs the at least one memory and the computer program code configured to with the at least one processor cause at least in part the apparatus to process and or facilitate a processing of one or more signals from one or more transmitters captured at one or more user devices to determine one or more frequencies of the one or more signals. The apparatus is also caused to determine device location information of the one or more user devices based at least in part on the one or more frequencies.

According to another embodiment a computer readable storage medium carries one or more sequences of one or more instructions which when executed by one or more processors cause at least in part an apparatus to process and or facilitate a processing of one or more signals from one or more transmitters captured at one or more user devices to determine one or more frequencies of the one or more signals. The apparatus is also caused to determine device location information of the one or more user devices based at least in part on the one or more frequencies.

According to another embodiment an apparatus comprises means for processing and or facilitating a processing of one or more signals from one or more transmitters captured at one or more user devices to determine one or more frequencies of the one or more signals. The apparatus also comprises means for determining device location information of the one or more user devices based at least in part on the one or more frequencies. Moreover it is noted that the apparatus may further comprise means for performing any of the functions described below e.g. causing a generation of the one or more frequencies by the one or more transmitters processing and or facilitating a processing of the one or more frequencies etc. 

In addition for various example embodiments of the invention the following is applicable a method comprising facilitating a processing of and or processing 1 data and or 2 information and or 3 at least one signal the 1 data and or 2 information and or 3 at least one signal based at least in part on or derived at least in part from any one or any combination of methods or processes disclosed in this application as relevant to any embodiment of the invention.

For various example embodiments of the invention the following is also applicable a method comprising facilitating access to at least one interface configured to allow access to at least one service the at least one service configured to perform any one or any combination of network or service provider methods or processes disclosed in this application.

For various example embodiments of the invention the following is also applicable a method comprising facilitating creating and or facilitating modifying 1 at least one device user interface element and or 2 at least one device user interface functionality the 1 at least one device user interface element and or 2 at least one device user interface functionality based at least in part on data and or information resulting from one or any combination of methods or processes disclosed in this application as relevant to any embodiment of the invention and or at least one signal resulting from one or any combination of methods or processes disclosed in this application as relevant to any embodiment of the invention.

For various example embodiments of the invention the following is also applicable a method comprising creating and or modifying 1 at least one device user interface element and or 2 at least one device user interface functionality the 1 at least one device user interface element and or 2 at least one device user interface functionality based at least in part on data and or information resulting from one or any combination of methods or processes disclosed in this application as relevant to any embodiment of the invention and or at least one signal resulting from one or any combination of methods or processes disclosed in this application as relevant to any embodiment of the invention.

In various example embodiments the methods or processes can be accomplished on the service provider side or on the mobile device side or in any shared way between service provider and mobile device with actions being performed on both sides.

For various example embodiments the following is applicable An apparatus comprising means for performing any described herein.

Still other aspects features and advantages of the invention are readily apparent from the following detailed description simply by illustrating a number of particular embodiments and implementations including the best mode contemplated for carrying out the invention. The invention is also capable of other and different embodiments and its several details can be modified in various obvious respects all without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. Accordingly the drawings and description are to be regarded as illustrative in nature and not as restrictive.

Examples of a method apparatus and computer program for providing location information of user devices based on signal frequencies of transmitters are disclosed. In the following description for the purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the embodiments of the invention. It is apparent however to one skilled in the art that the embodiments of the invention may be practiced without these specific details or with an equivalent arrangement. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the embodiments of the invention.

To address this problem a system of introduces the capability to provide location information of user devices based on signal frequencies of transmitters. It is noted however that although various embodiments are described with respect to audio signals it is contemplated that the approach described herein may be used with other signals e.g. wireless radio signals . Specifically the system may process transmitter signals captured at a user device to determine frequencies of those transmitter signals. The system may then determine device location information or user location information of the user device based on the determined frequencies. In certain embodiments the transmitters from which the signals are broadcasted may include one or more speakers and the signals include one or more audio signals. In further embodiments the speakers may include one or more fixed directional speakers at predetermined locations e.g. speakers that transmit audio signals along a particular direction and that are fixed at the various predetermined locations and the audio signals may be associated with ultrasound frequencies e.g. 20 kHz or above . By way of example audio frequencies in the ultraband range e.g. 20 to 24 kHz may be used to determine user positions. Such a range for instance is capable of being accurately recorded with mobile phones using a typical sampling rate e.g. 48 kHz sampling rate and is greater than the upper limit of human hearing. In this way data with respect to a user s location or movements may be effectively and efficiently acquired since such an approach can provide reliable positioning data and support 3 axis X Y Z positioning movement of users multiple map resolutions etc. while minimizing requirements for infrastructure support operational costs battery consumption user input and new hardware components.

As shown in the system comprises a user equipment UE or multiple UEs having connectivity to the positioning platform via a communication network . The UE may include or have access to an application e.g. applications to enable the UE to interact with for instance the positioning platform which may 1 process signals from transmitters captured at a user device to determine frequencies of those signals 2 determine device location information of the user device based on the frequencies 3 determine transmitter location information of the transmitters along with associations of the signals with the transmitters 4 cause a filtering of the signals based on associated frequencies of the transmitters to generate output signals 5 process the output signals to determine energy levels of the output signals 6 determine intersections of the output signals based on the energy levels 7 cause a presentation of a map depicting the device location information based on the transmitter location information 8 cause a combining of the transmitters and or a modification of the associated frequencies or 9 perform other functions.

In various embodiments the positioning platform may include or have access to a location database to access or store map information associated with particular environments user location information e.g. based on device location information user location history etc. The positioning platform may also include or have access to a transmitter database to access or store transmitter data including transmitter location information associated frequencies or phases of the transmitters frequency hopping data of the transmitters transmitter model type information etc. Data stored in the location database and the transmitter database may for instance be provided by the UEs a service platform one or more services or services one or more content providers or content providers and or other services available over the communication network . For example a certain service may provide various maps along with transmitter data associated with those maps to the location database and the transmitter database . It is noted that the positioning platform may be a separate entity of the system a part of the one or more services of the service platform or included within the UE e.g. as part of the application . In addition it is noted that the positioning platform may be provided with configurable transmission data e.g. via services the transmitter database etc. that enable the positioning platform to control the frequencies at which each transmitter can transmit.

By way of example the communication network of system includes one or more networks such as a data network a wireless network a telephony network or any combination thereof. It is contemplated that the data network may be any local area network LAN metropolitan area network MAN wide area network WAN a public data network e.g. the Internet short range wireless network or any other suitable packet switched network such as a commercially owned proprietary packet switched network e.g. a proprietary cable or fiber optic network and the like or any combination thereof. In addition the wireless network may be for example a cellular network and may employ various technologies including enhanced data rates for global evolution EDGE general packet radio service GPRS global system for mobile communications GSM Internet protocol multimedia subsystem IMS universal mobile telecommunications system UMTS etc. as well as any other suitable wireless medium e.g. worldwide interoperability for microwave access WiMAX Long Term Evolution LTE networks code division multiple access CDMA wideband code division multiple access WCDMA wireless fidelity WiFi wireless LAN WLAN Bluetooth Internet Protocol IP data casting satellite mobile ad hoc network MANET and the like or any combination thereof.

The UE is any type of mobile terminal fixed terminal or portable terminal including a mobile handset station unit device multimedia computer multimedia tablet Internet node communicator desktop computer laptop computer notebook computer netbook computer tablet computer personal communication system PCS device personal navigation device personal digital assistants PDAs audio video player digital camera camcorder positioning device television receiver radio broadcast receiver electronic book device game device or any combination thereof including the accessories and peripherals of these devices or any combination thereof. It is also contemplated that the UE can support any type of interface to the user such as wearable circuitry etc. .

In another embodiment the positioning platform may determine transmitter location information of the one or more transmitters. The positioning platform may then determine one or more associations of the one or more signals with the one or more transmitters wherein the device location information is further based at least in part on the one or more associations and the transmitter location information. As indicated the transmitters may be located at predetermined points associated with a map e.g. transmitter location information may be stored in the transmitter database . In one scenario each transmitter be associated with a particular frequency e.g. within the range of 20 to 24 kHz such that each transmitter may transmit short wave audio pulses with its associated frequency. As discussed a user device within the vicinity of the transmitted audio pulses may capture the signals from the transmitters and upload the captured signals to a positioning service hosting the positioning platform . The positioning platform may then identify which transmitters are associated with the captured signals based on the determined frequencies for instance by processing the captured signals to determine the frequencies of the captured signals and matching the determined frequencies with the associated frequencies of the transmitters. The location information of the identified transmitters may thereafter be utilized to determine the location of the user device and thus the location of the user of the user device.

In another scenario the positioning platform or various components of the positioning platform may be hosted at the user device e.g. the UE . As such the user device may perform the processing of the captured signals to determine the location of the user for instance by determining the frequencies of the captured signals and matching the determined frequencies with the associated frequencies of the transmitters. In addition the user device may be provided with venue information e.g. map information for the venue that the user is currently located via signaling from a server so that the user device may determine the device location information based on the transmitter positions indicated by the venue information. The server may for instance send the venue information to the user device based on initial location information such as GPS A GPS cell identification ID etc. before the user enters a particular venue. In yet another scenario some of the transmitters may be associated with the same frequency the same set of frequencies etc. However those transmitters may be associated with various combinations of frequencies and phases. As such the location of the user may also be determined by determining the frequencies and phases of the captured signals and matching the determined frequencies and phases with the associated frequencies and phases of the transmitters.

In another embodiment the positioning platform may determine one or more associated frequencies of the one or more transmitters. The positioning platform may then cause at least in part a filtering of the one or more signals based at least in part on the one or more associated frequencies to generate one or more output signals. By way of example the positioning platform may utilize a number of band pass filters calibrated based on the associated frequencies e.g. the band pass filters may be centered at the various associated frequencies . Audio signals from fixed directional speakers e.g. speakers that transmit audio signals along a particular direction and that are fixed at various predetermined locations may for instance be captured by the user device and thereafter processed by the band pass filters that will generate output signals indicating the transmitters corresponding to the captured signals. The location information of those transmitters may then be utilized to determine the location of the user.

In another embodiment the positioning platform may process and or facilitate a processing of the one or more output signals to determine one or more energy levels of the one or more output signals wherein the device location information is further based at least in part on the one or more energy levels. As mentioned the output signals may be generated based on the filtering of the captured signals and the output signals may indicate the transmitters that correspond with the captured signals. As an example the transmitters having associated frequencies that match the output signals having the highest energy levels may be determined to be the transmitters that correspond to the captured signals. The location information of those transmitters may then be utilized to determine the location of the user.

In another embodiment the positioning platform may determine one or more intersections of the one or more output signals based at least in part on the one or more energy levels wherein the device location information is further based at least in part on the one or more intersections. In one use case some of the transmitters may transmit short wave audio pulses in the X direction while other transmitters may transmit short wave audio pulses in the Y direction. As such it may be determined that the output signal having the highest energy level of the output signals associated with the X direction e.g. output signals corresponding to associated frequencies of transmitters that transmit in the X direction intersects with the output signal having the highest energy level of the output signals associated with the Y direction e.g. output signals corresponding to associated frequencies of transmitters that transmit in the Y direction . Thus the intersecting point of the two output signals may thereafter be utilized to determine the location of the user.

In another embodiment the positioning platform may cause at least in part a presentation of a map depicting the device location information based at least in part on the transmitter location information. By way of example the map may be a grid based map that depicts fixed directional transmitters based on their predetermined location information. Transmitters that broadcast signals in the X direction may for instance be presented along one axis while transmitters that broadcast signals in the Y direction may be presented another axis. In addition each grid cell of the grid based map may be associated with the intersection of at least two directional transmitters. As such if a user device is determined to be located at a particular intersection the grid based map may depict the user device in the grid cell associated with that intersection. It is noted that in some embodiments each grid cell of the grid based map may be associated with three or more directional transmitters for instance if altitude also needs to be computed e.g. some user devices may be equipped with altimeters which may alternatively be used to determine the altitude of those user devices .

In another embodiment the positioning platform may cause at least in part a combining of the one or more transmitters a modification of one or more associated frequencies of the one or more transmitters or a combination thereof wherein the device location information is further based at least in part on the combining the modification or a combination thereof. In one scenario certain venues may have a large number of available speakers to increase the map resolution to enable higher precision in identifying a user s position. However in some situations the higher resolution may not be desirable if for instance the purpose is to signal the user to move to a certain position that is easy to comprehend e.g. a map with a several large grid cells may be easier for a user to comprehend than a map with thousands of tiny grid cells . Thus the positioning platform may combine one or more speakers by viewing the frequencies associated with those speakers as being associated with a single entity thereby reducing the resolution.

In another scenario certain venue may have very few speakers resulting in user location blackouts where a user s location cannot be determined e.g. due to low energy data from the speakers . Thus the positioning platform may increase the directionality of the speakers by varying the frequencies of the speakers to modify the coverage range. For example by lowering the frequencies of the speakers the coverage area and range may be increased. The positioning platform may for instance monitor energy levels of captured signals from user devices and determine the frequencies that should be utilized by the transmitters based on the monitoring along with service needs e.g. resolution coverage area etc. .

By way of example the UE the positioning platform the service platform the services and the content providers communicate with each other and other components of the communication network using well known new or still developing protocols. In this context a protocol includes a set of rules defining how the network nodes within the communication network interact with each other based on information sent over the communication links. The protocols are effective at different layers of operation within each node from generating and receiving physical signals of various types to selecting a link for transferring those signals to the format of information indicated by those signals to identifying which software application executing on a computer system sends or receives the information. The conceptually different layers of protocols for exchanging information over a network are described in the Open Systems Interconnection OSI Reference Model.

Communications between the network nodes are typically effected by exchanging discrete packets of data. Each packet typically comprises 1 header information associated with a particular protocol and 2 payload information that follows the header information and contains information that may be processed independently of that particular protocol. In some protocols the packet includes 3 trailer information following the payload and indicating the end of the payload information. The header includes information such as the source of the packet its destination the length of the payload and other properties used by the protocol. Often the data in the payload for the particular protocol includes a header and payload for a different protocol associated with a different higher layer of the OSI Reference Model. The header for a particular protocol typically indicates a type for the next protocol contained in its payload. The higher layer protocol is said to be encapsulated in the lower layer protocol. The headers included in a packet traversing multiple heterogeneous networks such as the Internet typically include a physical layer 1 header a data link layer 2 header an internetwork layer 3 header and a transport layer 4 header and various application layer 5 layer 6 and layer 7 headers as defined by the OSI Reference Model.

The control logic executes at least one algorithm for executing functions of the positioning platform . For example the control logic may interact with the association module to process transmitter signals captured at a user device to determine frequencies of the captured signals. The association module may for instance determine one or more associated frequencies of the transmitters from which the signals are transmitted and then work with the filter module to filter the captured signals based on the associated frequencies to generate output signals. The output signals of the filter module may thereafter be passed to the energy calculation module which may process the output signals to determine the energy levels of the output signals.

In certain embodiments the association module may then utilize the energy levels to determine one or more intersections of the output signals. As discussed in one scenario the intersection associated with output signals or the transmitters having the highest energy levels may be determined to be the intersection at which the user or the user device is located. As such the association module may determine the frequencies of the captured signals corresponding to those output signals and then determine the transmitters that are associated with those captured signal by comparing the determined frequencies of those captured signals with the known frequencies of the transmitters.

The control logic may also direct the presentation module to present a map depicting the device location information based on the transmitter location information. By way of example the map may be a grid based map that depicts fixed directional transmitters along the X and Y axes of the grid based map based on their predetermined location information. As mentioned each grid cell of the grid based map may be associated with the intersection of at least two directional transmitters. As such if a user device is determined to be located at a particular intersection the grid based map may depict the user device in the grid cell associated with that intersection.

The control logic may additionally utilize the communication interface to communicate with other components of the positioning platform the UEs the service platform the services the content providers and other components of the system . For example the communication interface may be utilized to receive signals captured by a signal capturing module e.g. audio microphone at a UE . The communication interface may further include multiple means of communication. In one use case the communication interface may be able to communicate over short message service SMS multimedia messaging service MMS internet protocol email instant messaging voice sessions e.g. via a phone network or other types of communication.

As depicted in the client side may include a client API for communicating with the server side e.g. via the API and a user interface module for interacting with the user. Additionally in this scenario the client side includes an audio microphone for capturing sound e.g. audio signals transmitted by the transmitters a band pass controller and a band pass filter or filters for filtering the captured sound and an energy calculator for determining the energy levels of the output signals from the band pass filter . Moreover the client side may include a signal module to work with the client API to transmit data with respect to the output signals and the energy levels to the server side e.g. to perform matching of the frequencies derived from the output signals and the energy levels with associated frequencies of the transmitters .

As indicated in other embodiments various components such as the band pass controller the band pass filter the energy calculator etc. may be hosted on the server side. In such scenarios for instance the user device may simply capture the signals from the transmitters and send the captured signals to the server side for processing. The server side may then determine location information of the user device or the user from the captured signals and send the location information to the user device. In this way the cost of user devices along with battery consumption associated with such operations may be reduced.

In step the positioning platform may then determine device location information of the one or more user devices based on the one or more frequencies. As mentioned in certain embodiments the one or more transmitters may include one or more speakers and the one or more signals may include one or more audio signals. In further embodiments the one or more speakers may include one or more fixed directional speakers at one or more predetermined locations and the one or more audio signals may be associated with ultrasound frequencies e.g. 20 kHz or above . For example audio frequencies in the ultraband range e.g. 20 to 24 kHz may be used to determine user positions since the range is capable of being accurately recorded with mobile phones using a typical sampling rate e.g. 48 kHz sampling rate and is greater than the upper limit of human hearing.

In step the positioning platform may determine one or more associated frequencies of the one or more transmitters. As discussed the one or more associated frequencies e.g. the transmission frequencies of the one or more transmitters as well as the location information of the one or more transmitters may be known on the server side and stored at the transmitter database . In other embodiments the one or more associated frequencies and the transmitter location information may be known or accessible by the user device.

In step the positioning platform may cause a filtering of the one or more signals based on the one or more associated frequencies to generate one or more output signals. By way of example various pass filters may be centered at the associated frequencies. As such the resulting output signal of a particular band pass filter may be based on the associated frequency used to center that band pass filter.

In step the positioning platform may process and or facilitate a processing of the one or more output signals to determine one or more energy levels of the one or more output signals. Then in step the positioning platform may determine one or more intersections of the one or more output signals based on the one or more energy levels. In one use case for instance it may be determined that the output signal having the highest energy level of the output signals associated with one direction intersects with the output signal having the highest energy level of the output signals associated with another direction. The intersecting point of the two output signals may thereafter be utilized to determine the device location information.

In step the positioning platform may determine one or more associations of the one or more signals with the one or more transmitters. For example the frequencies of the one or more signals may be determined by filtering the one or more signals. The determined frequencies are then compared with associated frequencies of the transmitters to determine the transmitters from which the captured signals were transmitted. In some embodiments the determined frequencies with the highest energy levels may be compared with the associated frequencies to determine which of the transmitters broadcast areas the user device is located. In step the positioning platform may also determine transmitter location information of the one or more transmitters e.g. by accessing the transmitter database which may be utilized along with the one or more associations to determine the device location information.

In some embodiments each transmitter transmits in such a way that no two transmitters transmit at the same frequency. A mobile phone of a user may for instance record audio in the ultrasound range e.g. via the microphone of the mobile device . The mobile phone may then utilize a set of band pass filters e.g. as many as there are ultrasound speakers in the system which are centered at the transmitted ultrasound frequencies. The energy levels of the signals outputted from the band pass filters are then calculated. The frequencies associated with the user s position e.g. indicator may for instance be determined to be the highest energy levels. Thus since the location of the speakers are known and the speakers are highly directional the grid cell in which the user is located may easily be deduced from the energy levels associated with the output signals and the frequencies.

It is noted that in certain embodiments some of the transmitters may transmit at the same frequency with varying phases. As such the location of the user may be determined by determining the frequencies and phases of the recorded audio and matching the determined frequencies and phases with the associated frequencies and phases of the transmitters . In further embodiments various other approaches e.g. frequency hopping may also be used to determine the location of the user.

As shown in the transmitters may be transmitting audio signals in the X direction while the transmitters may be transmitting audio signals in the Y direction. The transmitters may for instance be transmitting sound at 20.0 kHz 20.5 kHz 21.0 kHz 21.5 kHz 22.0 kHz and 22.5 kHz respectively. The user s mobile device may record the audio. As indicated the recorded audio may be processed at the mobile device or uploaded to a positioning service that will process the recorded audio to determine the user s location. As depicted in the captured audio may be filtered through band pass filters that are configured for the associated frequencies of the transmitters e.g. 20.0 kHz 20.5 kHz 21.0 kHz 21.5 kHz 22.0 kHz and 22.5 kHz respectively . Thereafter energy calculation modules may process the output signals of the band pass filters and forward the output data to logic to determine the user s location. In this scenario logic may determine that the output signals associated with 20.5 kHz and 21.5 kHz have the highest energy levels indicating that the user is located at the sound intersection of transmitters and . Thus logic will determine that the user is located in grid cell of the grid based map . The grid based map depicting the transmitters and the indicator may thereafter be presented to the user for instance to illustrate the user s current position and or to direct the user to his her next location e.g. one of the various grid cells of the grid based map .

The processes described herein for providing location information of user devices based on signal frequencies of transmitters may be advantageously implemented via software hardware firmware or a combination of software and or firmware and or hardware. For example the processes described herein may be advantageously implemented via processor s Digital Signal Processing DSP chip an Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC Field Programmable Gate Arrays FPGAs etc. Such exemplary hardware for performing the described functions is detailed below.

A bus includes one or more parallel conductors of information so that information is transferred quickly among devices coupled to the bus . One or more processors for processing information are coupled with the bus .

A processor or multiple processors performs a set of operations on information as specified by computer program code related to providing location information of user devices based on signal frequencies of transmitters. The computer program code is a set of instructions or statements providing instructions for the operation of the processor and or the computer system to perform specified functions. The code for example may be written in a computer programming language that is compiled into a native instruction set of the processor. The code may also be written directly using the native instruction set e.g. machine language . The set of operations include bringing information in from the bus and placing information on the bus . The set of operations also typically include comparing two or more units of information shifting positions of units of information and combining two or more units of information such as by addition or multiplication or logical operations like OR exclusive OR XOR and AND. Each operation of the set of operations that can be performed by the processor is represented to the processor by information called instructions such as an operation code of one or more digits. A sequence of operations to be executed by the processor such as a sequence of operation codes constitute processor instructions also called computer system instructions or simply computer instructions. Processors may be implemented as mechanical electrical magnetic optical chemical or quantum components among others alone or in combination.

Computer system also includes a memory coupled to bus . The memory such as a random access memory RAM or any other dynamic storage device stores information including processor instructions for providing location information of user devices based on signal frequencies of transmitters. Dynamic memory allows information stored therein to be changed by the computer system . RAM allows a unit of information stored at a location called a memory address to be stored and retrieved independently of information at neighboring addresses. The memory is also used by the processor to store temporary values during execution of processor instructions. The computer system also includes a read only memory ROM or any other static storage device coupled to the bus for storing static information including instructions that is not changed by the computer system . Some memory is composed of volatile storage that loses the information stored thereon when power is lost. Also coupled to bus is a non volatile persistent storage device such as a magnetic disk optical disk or flash card for storing information including instructions that persists even when the computer system is turned off or otherwise loses power.

Information including instructions for providing location information of user devices based on signal frequencies of transmitters is provided to the bus for use by the processor from an external input device such as a keyboard containing alphanumeric keys operated by a human user a microphone an Infrared IR remote control a joystick a game pad a stylus pen a touch screen or a sensor. A sensor detects conditions in its vicinity and transforms those detections into physical expression compatible with the measurable phenomenon used to represent information in computer system . Other external devices coupled to bus used primarily for interacting with humans include a display device such as a cathode ray tube CRT a liquid crystal display LCD a light emitting diode LED display an organic LED OLED display a plasma screen or a printer for presenting text or images and a pointing device such as a mouse a trackball cursor direction keys or a motion sensor for controlling a position of a small cursor image presented on the display and issuing commands associated with graphical elements presented on the display and one or more camera sensors for capturing recording and causing to store one or more still and or moving images e.g. videos movies etc. which also may comprise audio recordings. In some embodiments for example in embodiments in which the computer system performs all functions automatically without human input one or more of external input device display device and pointing device may be omitted.

In the illustrated embodiment special purpose hardware such as an application specific integrated circuit ASIC is coupled to bus . The special purpose hardware is configured to perform operations not performed by processor quickly enough for special purposes. Examples of ASICs include graphics accelerator cards for generating images for display cryptographic boards for encrypting and decrypting messages sent over a network speech recognition and interfaces to special external devices such as robotic arms and medical scanning equipment that repeatedly perform some complex sequence of operations that are more efficiently implemented in hardware.

Computer system also includes one or more instances of a communications interface coupled to bus . Communication interface provides a one way or two way communication coupling to a variety of external devices that operate with their own processors such as printers scanners and external disks. In general the coupling is with a network link that is connected to a local network to which a variety of external devices with their own processors are connected. For example communication interface may be a parallel port or a serial port or a universal serial bus USB port on a personal computer. In some embodiments communications interface is an integrated services digital network ISDN card or a digital subscriber line DSL card or a telephone modem that provides an information communication connection to a corresponding type of telephone line. In some embodiments a communication interface is a cable modem that converts signals on bus into signals for a communication connection over a coaxial cable or into optical signals for a communication connection over a fiber optic cable. As another example communications interface may be a local area network LAN card to provide a data communication connection to a compatible LAN such as Ethernet. Wireless links may also be implemented. For wireless links the communications interface sends or receives or both sends and receives electrical acoustic or electromagnetic signals including infrared and optical signals that carry information streams such as digital data. For example in wireless handheld devices such as mobile telephones like cell phones the communications interface includes a radio band electromagnetic transmitter and receiver called a radio transceiver. In certain embodiments the communications interface enables connection to the communication network for providing location information of user devices based on signal frequencies of transmitters to the UE .

The term computer readable medium as used herein refers to any medium that participates in providing information to processor including instructions for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to computer readable storage medium e.g. non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. Non transitory media such as non volatile media include for example optical or magnetic disks such as storage device . Volatile media include for example dynamic memory . Transmission media include for example twisted pair cables coaxial cables copper wire fiber optic cables and carrier waves that travel through space without wires or cables such as acoustic waves and electromagnetic waves including radio optical and infrared waves. Signals include man made transient variations in amplitude frequency phase polarization or other physical properties transmitted through the transmission media. Common forms of computer readable media include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium a CD ROM CDRW DVD any other optical medium punch cards paper tape optical mark sheets any other physical medium with patterns of holes or other optically recognizable indicia a RAM a PROM an EPROM a FLASH EPROM an EEPROM a flash memory any other memory chip or cartridge a carrier wave or any other medium from which a computer can read. The term computer readable storage medium is used herein to refer to any computer readable medium except transmission media.

Logic encoded in one or more tangible media includes one or both of processor instructions on a computer readable storage media and special purpose hardware such as ASIC .

Network link typically provides information communication using transmission media through one or more networks to other devices that use or process the information. For example network link may provide a connection through local network to a host computer or to equipment operated by an Internet Service Provider ISP . ISP equipment in turn provides data communication services through the public world wide packet switching communication network of networks now commonly referred to as the Internet .

A computer called a server host connected to the Internet hosts a process that provides a service in response to information received over the Internet. For example server host hosts a process that provides information representing video data for presentation at display . It is contemplated that the components of system can be deployed in various configurations within other computer systems e.g. host and server .

At least some embodiments of the invention are related to the use of computer system for implementing some or all of the techniques described herein. According to one embodiment of the invention those techniques are performed by computer system in response to processor executing one or more sequences of one or more processor instructions contained in memory . Such instructions also called computer instructions software and program code may be read into memory from another computer readable medium such as storage device or network link . Execution of the sequences of instructions contained in memory causes processor to perform one or more of the method steps described herein. In alternative embodiments hardware such as ASIC may be used in place of or in combination with software to implement the invention. Thus embodiments of the invention are not limited to any specific combination of hardware and software unless otherwise explicitly stated herein.

The signals transmitted over network link and other networks through communications interface carry information to and from computer system . Computer system can send and receive information including program code through the networks among others through network link and communications interface . In an example using the Internet a server host transmits program code for a particular application requested by a message sent from computer through Internet ISP equipment local network and communications interface . The received code may be executed by processor as it is received or may be stored in memory or in storage device or any other non volatile storage for later execution or both. In this manner computer system may obtain application program code in the form of signals on a carrier wave.

Various forms of computer readable media may be involved in carrying one or more sequence of instructions or data or both to processor for execution. For example instructions and data may initially be carried on a magnetic disk of a remote computer such as host . The remote computer loads the instructions and data into its dynamic memory and sends the instructions and data over a telephone line using a modem. A modem local to the computer system receives the instructions and data on a telephone line and uses an infra red transmitter to convert the instructions and data to a signal on an infra red carrier wave serving as the network link . An infrared detector serving as communications interface receives the instructions and data carried in the infrared signal and places information representing the instructions and data onto bus . Bus carries the information to memory from which processor retrieves and executes the instructions using some of the data sent with the instructions. The instructions and data received in memory may optionally be stored on storage device either before or after execution by the processor .

In one embodiment the chip set or chip includes a communication mechanism such as a bus for passing information among the components of the chip set . A processor has connectivity to the bus to execute instructions and process information stored in for example a memory . The processor may include one or more processing cores with each core configured to perform independently. A multi core processor enables multiprocessing within a single physical package. Examples of a multi core processor include two four eight or greater numbers of processing cores. Alternatively or in addition the processor may include one or more microprocessors configured in tandem via the bus to enable independent execution of instructions pipelining and multithreading. The processor may also be accompanied with one or more specialized components to perform certain processing functions and tasks such as one or more digital signal processors DSP or one or more application specific integrated circuits ASIC . A DSP typically is configured to process real world signals e.g. sound in real time independently of the processor . Similarly an ASIC can be configured to performed specialized functions not easily performed by a more general purpose processor. Other specialized components to aid in performing the inventive functions described herein may include one or more field programmable gate arrays FPGA one or more controllers or one or more other special purpose computer chips.

In one embodiment the chip set or chip includes merely one or more processors and some software and or firmware supporting and or relating to and or for the one or more processors.

The processor and accompanying components have connectivity to the memory via the bus . The memory includes both dynamic memory e.g. RAM magnetic disk writable optical disk etc. and static memory e.g. ROM CD ROM etc. for storing executable instructions that when executed perform the inventive steps described herein to provide location information of user devices based on signal frequencies of transmitters. The memory also stores the data associated with or generated by the execution of the inventive steps.

Pertinent internal components of the telephone include a Main Control Unit MCU a Digital Signal Processor DSP and a receiver transmitter unit including a microphone gain control unit and a speaker gain control unit. A main display unit provides a display to the user in support of various applications and mobile terminal functions that perform or support the steps of providing location information of user devices based on signal frequencies of transmitters. The display includes display circuitry configured to display at least a portion of a user interface of the mobile terminal e.g. mobile telephone . Additionally the display and display circuitry are configured to facilitate user control of at least some functions of the mobile terminal. An audio function circuitry includes a microphone and microphone amplifier that amplifies the speech signal output from the microphone . The amplified speech signal output from the microphone is fed to a coder decoder CODEC .

A radio section amplifies power and converts frequency in order to communicate with a base station which is included in a mobile communication system via antenna . The power amplifier PA and the transmitter modulation circuitry are operationally responsive to the MCU with an output from the PA coupled to the duplexer or circulator or antenna switch as known in the art. The PA also couples to a battery interface and power control unit .

In use a user of mobile terminal speaks into the microphone and his or her voice along with any detected background noise is converted into an analog voltage. The analog voltage is then converted into a digital signal through the Analog to Digital Converter ADC . The control unit routes the digital signal into the DSP for processing therein such as speech encoding channel encoding encrypting and interleaving. In one embodiment the processed voice signals are encoded by units not separately shown using a cellular transmission protocol such as enhanced data rates for global evolution EDGE general packet radio service GPRS global system for mobile communications GSM Internet protocol multimedia subsystem IMS universal mobile telecommunications system UMTS etc. as well as any other suitable wireless medium e.g. microwave access WiMAX Long Term Evolution LTE networks code division multiple access CDMA wideband code division multiple access WCDMA wireless fidelity WiFi satellite and the like or any combination thereof.

The encoded signals are then routed to an equalizer for compensation of any frequency dependent impairments that occur during transmission though the air such as phase and amplitude distortion. After equalizing the bit stream the modulator combines the signal with a RF signal generated in the RF interface . The modulator generates a sine wave by way of frequency or phase modulation. In order to prepare the signal for transmission an up converter combines the sine wave output from the modulator with another sine wave generated by a synthesizer to achieve the desired frequency of transmission. The signal is then sent through a PA to increase the signal to an appropriate power level. In practical systems the PA acts as a variable gain amplifier whose gain is controlled by the DSP from information received from a network base station. The signal is then filtered within the duplexer and optionally sent to an antenna coupler to match impedances to provide maximum power transfer. Finally the signal is transmitted via antenna to a local base station. An automatic gain control AGC can be supplied to control the gain of the final stages of the receiver. The signals may be forwarded from there to a remote telephone which may be another cellular telephone any other mobile phone or a land line connected to a Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN or other telephony networks.

Voice signals transmitted to the mobile terminal are received via antenna and immediately amplified by a low noise amplifier LNA . A down converter lowers the carrier frequency while the demodulator strips away the RF leaving only a digital bit stream. The signal then goes through the equalizer and is processed by the DSP . A Digital to Analog Converter DAC converts the signal and the resulting output is transmitted to the user through the speaker all under control of a Main Control Unit MCU which can be implemented as a Central Processing Unit CPU .

The MCU receives various signals including input signals from the keyboard . The keyboard and or the MCU in combination with other user input components e.g. the microphone comprise a user interface circuitry for managing user input. The MCU runs a user interface software to facilitate user control of at least some functions of the mobile terminal to provide location information of user devices based on signal frequencies of transmitters. The MCU also delivers a display command and a switch command to the display and to the speech output switching controller respectively. Further the MCU exchanges information with the DSP and can access an optionally incorporated SIM card and a memory . In addition the MCU executes various control functions required of the terminal. The DSP may depending upon the implementation perform any of a variety of conventional digital processing functions on the voice signals. Additionally DSP determines the background noise level of the local environment from the signals detected by microphone and sets the gain of microphone to a level selected to compensate for the natural tendency of the user of the mobile terminal .

The CODEC includes the ADC and DAC . The memory stores various data including call incoming tone data and is capable of storing other data including music data received via e.g. the global Internet. The software module could reside in RAM memory flash memory registers or any other form of writable storage medium known in the art. The memory device may be but not limited to a single memory CD DVD ROM RAM EEPROM optical storage magnetic disk storage flash memory storage or any other non volatile storage medium capable of storing digital data.

An optionally incorporated SIM card carries for instance important information such as the cellular phone number the carrier supplying service subscription details and security information. The SIM card serves primarily to identify the mobile terminal on a radio network. The card also contains a memory for storing a personal telephone number registry text messages and user specific mobile terminal settings.

Further one or more camera sensors may be incorporated onto the mobile station wherein the one or more camera sensors may be placed at one or more locations on the mobile station. Generally the camera sensors may be utilized to capture record and cause to store one or more still and or moving images e.g. videos movies etc. which also may comprise audio recordings.

While the invention has been described in connection with a number of embodiments and implementations the invention is not so limited but covers various obvious modifications and equivalent arrangements which fall within the purview of the appended claims. Although features of the invention are expressed in certain combinations among the claims it is contemplated that these features can be arranged in any combination and order.

