---

title: System and method for the automated processing of fluids, method for determining the matching of objects
abstract: A system and method for the automated processing of fluids according to a process operation plan involving the use of preloaded objects, which are to be present in target object positions, are disclosed. The system includes: a processing area in which objects to be used for the processing of fluids are located; at least one ultrasonic sensor for determining the presence of objects by acoustical waves; a positioning device to which the ultrasonic sensor is fixed and which moves the ultrasonic sensor in at least one direction relative to the processing area; a control computer determining the presence of objects and determining if objects are present in target object positions in the processing area as defined by the process operation plan; a pipetting device for pipetting of fluids between cavities located in the processing area; and an analytical or pre-analytical processing device for processing of fluids located in the processing area.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09377479&OS=09377479&RS=09377479
owner: Roche Molecular Systems, Inc.
number: 09377479
owner_city: Pleasanton
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150611
---
The present application is a divisional of U.S. Pat. No. 9 086 396 filed on Nov. 23 2009 which claims priority to EP Application Number 08170313.4 filed Nov. 28 2008 the priority of both applications is claimed hereby and the disclosures of both applications are hereby incorporated by reference.

Embodiments of the present invention relate generally to automated systems for the analytical or pre analytical processing of fluids and more particularly to a system and method for the automated processing of fluids according to a process operation plan involving the use of preloaded objects. It further relates to a method for determining the matching of objects in an instrument with preloaded objects to be present in target object positions according to a process operation plan.

In these days various types of clinical analyzers for the automated processing of biological fluids such as blood serum and urine are being in practical use. Sample preparation and analysis of biological fluids basically involves handling and mixing of the fluids using various components such as multi well plates pipette trays pipette tips and bottles filled with reagents buffers wash solutions and the like which may be subsumed by the generic term consumables . When operable in a stand alone mode analyzers typically are manually preloaded with consumables needed for the processing of fluids prior to starting the automated fluid processing.

Since there is a strong demand for offering a wide variety of analytical options and with a view to improve effectiveness in sample processing analyzers often process samples in parallel and or split each sample into a number of sample aliquots for the simultaneous processing thereof deploying different analytical techniques. Due to the high sample throughput and dependent on the number of analytical options offered modern apparatus are subject to an elevated consumption of consumables which they have to be charged with.

However in daily routine a problem may occur that consumables needed for the automated processing of fluids are misplaced or even missing because of human error when manually preloading the analyzer. Albeit even in case of automatically preloading of consumables since there is a risk of dropping or misplacing of objects due to misalignment errors misplacement or absence of consumables cannot be excluded. This especially applies to the case of modern analyzers which according to the above normally are subject to an elevated consumption of consumables requiring many preloading operations.

In modern analyzers missing or misplaced consumables will automatically cause a stop of a current run which entails a delay for starting the next run and may also give rise to repeat the aborted run which lowers efficiency in fluid processing. Even worse accidental stops may constitute a need to discard the fluid samples currently processed which has to be avoided since some fluids require delicate extraction operations or are unique in a sense that they cannot be reproduced such as in forensic applications.

It is against the above background that embodiments of the present invention provide a system and method for the automated processing of fluids involving the use of preloaded consumables to enable reliable fluid sample processing without a risk of interrupting an ongoing run due to missing or misplaced consumables.

In one preferred embodiment a system for the automated processing of fluids according to a process operation plan involving the use of preloaded objects said process operation plan defining preloaded objects to be present in target object positions is disclosed. The system comprises a processing area in which objects to be used for the processing of fluids are located at least one ultrasonic sensor for determining the presence of objects by acoustical waves a positioning device to which the ultrasonic sensor is fixed and which moves the ultrasonic sensor in at least one direction relative to said processing area a control computer determining the presence of objects and determining if objects are present in target object positions in said processing area as defined by said process operation plan at least one pipetting device for pipetting of fluids between cavities located in said processing area and an analytical or pre analytical processing device for processing of fluids located in said processing area.

In another preferred embodiment a method is disclosed for determining the matching of objects present in a processing area in an instrument with preloaded objects to be present in target object positions in said instrument according to a process operation plan. The method comprises determining the presence of objects relative to the processing area in said instrument by means of at least one ultrasonic sensor and determining if objects are present in target object positions as defined by said process operation plan.

Other and further embodiments features and advantages of the invention will appear more fully from the accompanying drawings the following detailed description and the appended claims.

According to one embodiment of the invention a system for the automated analytical or pre analytical processing of fluids fluid samples according to a process operation plan involving the use of preloaded objects for automatically processing the fluids is provided. The process operation plan which may be embodied as a computer program for running on a programmable control computer instructs operations to be performed for automatically processing the fluids. Specifically the process operation plan defines objects which are required for the automated processing of fluids and thus have to be preloaded in advance of starting the automated processing of fluids. The process operation plan also defines target object positions for each of the objects to be preloaded in advance of starting the automated processing of fluids that is to say it defines object positions into which the objects are intended to be preloaded prior to starting the automated processing of fluids.

Accordingly a system for the automated processing of fluids is provided which comprises a processing area in which objects to be used for the processing of fluids are located. As used herein the term processing area describes an area of the system in which the automated processing of fluids is being performed.

The system further comprises at least one ultrasonic sensor adapted for determining the presence of objects in said processing area by means of acoustic waves. Ultrasonic sensors for emitting ultrasonic waves towards an object of measurement and receiving acoustic waves returning upon reflection at the object are well known to those of skill in the art and for instance are described in European patent specification EP 0732598 B1. Accordingly an ultrasonic sensor includes at least one transducer used for emitting of acoustic waves in a transmitting mode and receiving of reflected acoustic waves in a receiving mode which modes may be changed by a change over switch. More specifically in transmitting mode drive pulses may be fed to the transducer to generate acoustic waves emitted to the object of measurement. On the other hand in receiving mode the transducer detects reflected acoustic waves which for instance are fed to a sampling circuit to be sampled at a predetermined frequency and to then be converted into digital data.

The system further comprises a positioning device to which the at least one ultrasonic sensor is fixed adapted to move the ultrasonic sensor in at least one direction relative to the processing area. For that purpose the ultrasonic sensor is fixed to a positioning member e.g. a transfer head of the positioning device.

The system further comprises a control computer for controlling of the automated processing of fluids according to the process operation plan which for instance may be embodied as a programmable control computer running a computer readable program provided with instructions to perform operations in accord with the process operation plan. The control computer may e.g. include functional entities such as microprocessors dedicated to the control of specific system components under main control of the control computer. The functional entities may be integrated in these system components. In that the control computer is electrically connected to the system components which require control as specified by the process operation plan which include the positioning device and the ultrasonic sensor. The control computer receives information from the different components of the system and generates and transmits corresponding control signals for controlling the components according to the process operation plan. The control computer can be connected to the system components via one or more data connections e.g. by use of a wired or wireless network.

More particularly in the system of the invention the control computer is being configured to determine the presence of objects and to determine if objects are present in target object positions in said processing area as defined by said process operation plan. In that the control computer may generate control signals for coordinating movements of the at least one ultrasonic sensor relative to the processing area and by means of the ultrasonic sensor determining if objects to be used for the automated processing of fluids are present in the target object positions as defined by the process operation plan.

The control computer may for instance be configured in a way that determination of the presence of individual objects is based on determining a difference of signal values e.g. time between emission of acoustic waves and reception of reflected acoustic waves between first and second signals values with first signal values corresponding to acoustic waves reflected from surfaces located at least in the target object positions and with second values corresponding to acoustic waves reflected from surfaces located in reference positions. The reference positions preferably are provided by surfaces of the holder.

Alternatively the control computer may for instance be configured in a way that determination of the presence of individual objects is based on determining of differences of distances between first and second distances of surfaces reflecting the first and second acoustic waves respectively.

The control computer may be configured to determine the presence of objects and determining if objects are present in target object positions as defined by said process operation plan performing a control run in advance of starting the automated processing of fluids and or during the automated processing of fluids.

The control computer may be configured to generate control signals to determine an identity and or an orientation of individual objects as determined by the process operation plan for instance in determining an object profile pattern in particular a height profile of the object concerned and comparing the object profile as determined with an object profile as defined by the process operation plan.

The control computer may also be configured to generate control signals based on a result of the determination if objects are present in target object positions as defined by the process operation plan which are supplied to a signalizing device e.g. a display to generate a user identifiable message so that a user may be informed about lacking and or misplaced objects for use in the automated fluid processing. The message may for instance contain information for guiding a user for manually or automatically loading of missing and or misplaced objects to be used in fluid processing as defined by the process operation plan.

Specifically the control computer may e.g. be configured to control the signalizing device in a manner to signalize a mismatch difference between objects actually present and objects required at target object positions as defined by the process operation plan.

Specifically the control computer may e.g. be configured to control a display in a manner to display a e.g. schematic representation of one or more parts of the system in order to visualize the target object positions as defined by the process operation plan. In that the display can e.g. be controlled to display one or more parts of the processing area. More specifically the control computer may e.g. be configured to control the display in a manner to display a mismatch difference between objects actually present and objects required at target object positions as defined by the process operation plan.

Otherwise the control computer may be configured to control the display in a manner to display the objects at target object positions as defined by the process operation plan followed by displaying a mismatch between objects actually present and the objects required at target object positions as defined by the process operation plan e.g. after detecting a manipulation of the system and or after elapse of a pre determined time span in order to display the result of a manual and or automatic loading operation for charging the system with the required objects.

Specifically the process operation plan may include a section which guides a user in loading the system with objects. Such a section for user guidance may involve the display of a representation of the processing area of the system and the objects to be loaded on a display. The process operation plan may further comprise a section for signalling loading mistakes to the user to facilitate ramification of the loading mistakes.

The system further comprises at least one pipetting device for pipetting of fluids between cavities located in the processing area.

The system yet further comprises at least one analytical or pre analytical processing device for processing of fluids located in the processing area. Analytical processing devices which are being used for analytically processing the fluids typically include a light source illuminating sample fluids and a detector receiving radiation emitted transmitted or reflected from the sample such as colorimetric measuring units fluorescence measuring units and the like. Further electrical measuring devices such as coulometric conductometric or potentiometric e.g. ion selective electrodes measuring devices can be employed. Pre analytical processing devices which are being used for pre analytically processing the fluids prior to analytically processing the fluids typically include heating or incubation devices magnetic separation devices centrifugation devices dilution and aliquotation units. As above detailed functional entities of the control computer can e.g. be integrated in the analytical or pre analytical processing device for the control thereof. Otherwise the control computer is being connected to the analytical or pre analytical processing device e.g. by means of a network.

The system may further comprise at least one holder adapted to hold the objects to be used for the automated processing of fluids in the target object positions as defined by the process operation plan. The holder may for instance be embodied as a movable rack which can be moved into an inoperative position for loading unloading with objects and an operative position for use of the preloaded objects when performing the automated processing of fluids. In that the holder preferably holds a multi well plate provided with cavities having defined positions. The holder is preferably kept stationary during determining of the presence of objects.

Hence enabling an automated determination if objects are present in target object positions as defined by the process operation plan advantageously allows for highly reliable automated processing of fluids which especially applies to the case of modern instruments requiring frequent preloading operations which are likely to cause errors as per missing or misplaced objects.

The system for the automated processing of fluids may be configured in various ways in accordance with the specific demands of users as long as automated processing of fluids involves the use of preloaded objects. In that the system for automatically processing of fluids may be embodied as analyzer for analyzing of fluids typically involving mixing of the fluids with reagents to determine presence and amount or absence of specific substances contained in the fluids. It may also be embodied as a pre analytic sample preparator for the automated preparation of fluid samples prior to analysis such as an extractor for the automated extraction of nucleic acids prior to amplification.

Fluids to be automatically processed in the system may include biological fluids e.g. blood serum urine cerebrospinal fluids and nucleic acids DNA RNA containing fluids non biological fluids e.g. chemical compounds and drugs and any other fluid of interest as long as automated processing thereof involves the use of preloaded objects.

The term processing of fluids as used herein may relate to a single step process for automatically processing of fluids so that objects to be used for the automated processing of fluids are being preloaded in advance of starting the automated processing of fluids. It may also relate to a multi step process for automatically processing of fluids in which objects to be used for the automated processing of fluids are being preloaded in advance of starting the first step and or during a time interval in between consecutive process steps. In the latter case starting of the automated processing of fluids may either relate to starting the multi step process or starting of any individual process step thereof.

The term preloading of objects as used herein refers to any manual and or automated loading operation in advance of starting the automated processing of fluids to be kept in readiness for use in the automated processing of fluids. Automated loading of objects may be performed using a manipulator such as a robotic arm. Automatically loading of objects requires control since problems as to missing or misplaced objects may occur for instance in case objects remain sticking on the robotic arm.

Objects to be used for the automated processing of fluids most typically are disposables which include plates forming cavities such as multi well plates pipette trays for receiving pipette tips pipette tips and containers containing various liquids such as reagents suspensions of magnetically attractable particles buffers wash solutions and the like.

It may be preferred that the system comprises a plurality of ultrasonic sensors which are arranged in a linear one dimensional or planar two dimensional array for simultaneously determining the presence of objects. In that case the control computer is configured to coordinate a plurality of ultrasonic sensors in parallel to simultaneously determine the presence of objects advantageously increasing efficiency in sample processing which results in an increased sample throughput and reliability.

In the above embodiment it may be preferred to arrange a plurality of ultrasonic sensors in a linear array extending in a first direction in accord with a planar array of objects extending in the first direction and a second direction with are in orthogonal relationship with respect to each other wherein the inter distance of ultrasonic sensors corresponds to the inter distance of objects in the first direction. Particularly a number of ultrasonic sensors may correspond to an integer divisor of a number of objects. In that case a planar array of objects may be efficiently controlled to determine if objects are present in target object positions as defined by the process operation plan. Specifically the control computer may be configured to control determining of the presence of objects based on determining a difference of signal values between first and second signals values with the first signal values corresponding to acoustic waves reflected from surfaces at least located in the target object positions and a second signal value corresponding to acoustic waves reflected from a surface as given by the plane the objects are arrayed in. Using such reference plane errors in determining presence of objects due to varying positioning of the ultrasonic sensor relative to the holder may advantageously be avoided.

According to another preferred embodiment of the system of the invention the system further comprises a pipetting device which is provided with at least one pipette for pipetting of liquids for the automated processing of fluids. In that case the positioning device preferably is adapted for moving both the at least one ultrasonic sensor and the at least one pipette for pipetting of liquids. Preferably the at least one ultrasonic sensor and the at least one pipette are both fixed to the same positioning device. The use of a single positioning device saves costs and space avoids a risk of collision between different positioning devices and simplifies control thereof. On the other hand configuring the control computer in a way that moving of the at least one ultrasonic sensor for determining the presence of objects is combined with moving of the at least one pipette for pipetting of liquids for the automated processing of fluids efficiency in the automated processing of fluids may be increased.

According to another embodiment of the invention a method is provided for determining the matching of objects present in a processing area in an instrument with preloaded objects to be present in target object positions in the instrument according to a process operation plan. The method may comprise the following steps.

A step of determining the presence of objects relative to the processing area in the instrument by means of at least one ultrasonic sensor. Such step may include moving the at least one ultrasonic sensor relative to the processing area in the instrument.

A step of determining if objects are present in target object positions as defined by the process operation plan.

The above method of the present invention advantageously allows for an automated control of presence of objects in the intended target object positions in the processing area as defined by the process operation plan.

In case of mismatch between the presence of objects as defined by the process operation plan and the actual presence of objects preferably a step of outputting a message based on the result of the determination to a signalizing device such as a display is performed. The message may e.g. contain user guiding information for guiding a user with respect to loading of missing and or misplaced objects to be loaded into the instrument.

Specifically the signalizing device can e.g. be controlled to signalize a mismatch between the objects present and objects required in target object positions as defined by the process operation plan. More specifically a display can e.g. be controlled to display a representation of one or more parts of the system which e.g. can be one or more parts of the processing area in order to visualize the target object positions as defined by the process operation plan. In that the display can e.g. be controlled to display the objects required at target object positions as defined by the process operation plan. Otherwise the display can also be controlled to display a mismatch between objects actually present and objects required in target object positions as defined by the process operation plan. The display can e.g. be controlled to display the objects required at the target object positions as defined by the process operation plan followed by displaying a mismatch between objects actually present and objects required in target object positions as defined by the process operation plan e.g. after detecting a manipulation of the system and or after elapse of a pre determined time span in order to display the result of a manual and or automatic loading operation for charging the system with the required objects.

According to a preferred embodiment of the method of the invention determining of presence of objects involves measuring of first signal values e.g. time between emission of acoustic waves and reception of reflected acoustic waves of first acoustic waves received upon reflection at surfaces at least in the target object positions and comparing the first signal values with at least one second signal value received upon reflection at a surface in a reference position.

According to another preferred embodiment of the method of the invention determining of presence of objects involves measuring of first distance values of acoustic waves received upon reflection at surfaces at least in said target object positions and comparing said first distance values with at least one second distance value received upon reflection at a surface in a reference distance position.

According to yet another preferred embodiment of the method of the invention a step of determining object identities of individual objects and determining if there is matching between object identities as determined and object identities as defined by the process operation plan is performed.

According to yet another preferred embodiment of the method of the invention a step of determining object orientations of individual objects and determining if there is matching between object orientations as determined and object orientations as defined by the process operation plan is performed.

According to yet another preferred embodiment of the method of the invention a step of moving a linear or planar array of ultrasonic sensors relative to the processing area in the instrument may be performed. Hence presence of objects may be determined in parallel to thereby advantageously increase efficiency in fluid processing. In particular in case of a planar array of cavities containing the fluids to be processed in which the cavities being arranged side by side in a row extending in a first direction and plural rows are stacked one upon the other in a second direction with the first and second directions being in orthogonal relationship with respect to each other it may be preferable that a linear array of ultrasonic sensors having the sensors arrayed along the first direction is moved along the first and or the second direction.

According to yet another preferred embodiment of the method of the invention moving of the at least one ultrasonic sensor for determining of presence of objects in the processing area is combined with moving of at least one pipette for pipetting of liquids for the automated processing of fluids. Combining movements of the at least one ultrasonic sensor and the at least one pipette efficiency in sample processing may advantageously be increased.

According to yet another preferred embodiment of the method of the invention it further includes a step of determining liquid levels of liquids contained in cavities by means of the at least one ultrasonic sensor. Such embodiment advantageously allows for control of liquid levels in order to control presence of fluids and or outcome of pipetting operations performed in the automated fluid processing. In that case it may be preferable to determine fluid levels involving measuring of distance values with respect to a reference distance level as defined by a plane of a planar array of cavities.

According to another embodiment of the invention a method is provided for the automated processing of fluids according to a process operation plan involving the use of preloaded objects which includes a method for determining the matching of objects present in a processing area in an instrument with preloaded objects to be present in target object positions in the instrument according to the process operation plan as above described.

The embodiments of the present invention will now be described in greater detail below with reference to the accompanying drawings where like designations denote like or similar elements.

Referring to an exemplary embodiment of the system and method according to the invention is explained. Accordingly a system instrument for the automated processing of nucleic acids containing fluids is described which permits extraction of nucleic acids prior to their amplification. Alternatively the present invention can be employed in other systems such as in clinical analyzers and the like.

The system includes a horizontal work plate which may be identified as processing area is provided with a plurality of rack openings arranged side by side with respect to each other each of which being adapted for accommodating elongated racks . Each rack opening may be accessed by a slot like aperture at a front side of the system allowing the racks to be inserted into the rack openings and removed therefrom respectively. For that purpose each rack is provided with two lateral ribs linearly extending in parallel relationship with each other which when inserting the racks into the rack openings get into fitting engagement with grooves formed by the work plate to slidably support the racks .

The system comprises a number of six racks including a waste rack a processing rack a tip tray rack a first reagent rack a second reagent rack and a bottle rack . Individual racks are being provided with a number of retaining sections to accommodate and hold various objects such as multi well plates tip trays and bottle cartridges and thus define various target object positions with the system . In the waste rack is shown to be loaded with three waste tip trays to receive waste tips and a waste liquid tray to receive waste liquid the processing rack is shown to be loaded with two processing plates deep well plates to receive nucleic acids containing fluids used as starting materials for the extraction of nucleic acids and two output plates to receive solutions containing the extracted purified nucleic acids the tip tray rack is provided with four tip trays filled with tips the first and second reagent racks may be loaded with various processing solutions such as buffer and wash solutions not further detailed in the figures and are shown to be loaded with reagent plates for mixing of reagent containing solutions and the bottle rack is provided with several bottle cartridges for supporting of bottles containing various liquids such as enzymes and suspensions of magnetic particles.

Accordingly the racks are provided with plural consumables to be used for the automated extraction of nucleic acids which have to be manually or automatically preloaded prior to starting the extraction of nucleic acids. For that purpose individual racks can be partly or completely put out of the rack openings for manual or automated loading and or unloading operations as above detailed. For the purpose of illustration only in the processing rack is shown to be partly pulled out of the rack opening .

While depict specific numbers of system components such as racks retaining sections plates trays and bottle cartridges it is to be understood that these numbers may vary in accord with specific needs for the extraction of nucleic acids.

As exemplified in the present embodiment individual plates are provided with a planar array of 96 wells with 8 wells arranged side by side in a row extending in a first direction and 12 rows stacked one upon the other in a second direction with the first and second directions being in orthogonal relationship with respect to each other. Consistently therewith individual tip trays include 96 tips. It however is to be understood that differently sized arrays may alternatively be used in accordance with specific needs for the extraction of nucleic acids.

The system comprises a first pipettor including 96 first pipettes provided with disposable pipetting tips adapted to transfer fluids to or from the plates. More specifically the first pipettes are mounted to a transfer head of a positioning device which can be moved in a first direction of travel towards and away from the work plate for instance by means of a spindle drive and in second and third directions of travel in a plane with the second and third directions being in orthogonal relationship with respect to the first direction by means of first and second guiding rails . Since such positioning device is well known to those of skill in the art it is not further detailed herein. The first pipettor can thus be moved relative to the racks for pipetting of liquids for the automated processing of fluid samples.

The system further includes a second pipettor including a plurality of second pipettes adapted to transfer fluids to or from the plates which is not further detailed herein.

The system yet further includes a linear array of eight ultrasonic sensors adapted to determine the presence of objects by means of acoustic waves which are secured to the transfer head and thus can be moved together with the first pipettor with respect to the racks . Stated more particularly the linearly arrayed ultrasonic sensors extend along the same direction first direction as each row of individual plates wherein a distance in between adjacent ultrasonic sensors matches a distance in between adjacent wells.

A programmable control computer is used for controlling of the automated processing of nucleic acids containing fluids for the extraction of nucleic acids according to a predetermined process operation plan. Accordingly the control computer runs a computer readable program which is provided with instructions to perform automated operations in accord with the process operation plan. In that the control computer is electrically connected to the system components which require control as specified by the process operation plan which include the positioning device and the ultrasonic sensors . Data connection between the control computer and the system components is by plural data connections not illustrated which can be part of a network for transferring data. The control computer may be an off the shelf computer programmed to run the process operation plan for controlling the system .

Aside from instructing operation steps the process operation plan defines the consumables which are required for the automated extraction of nucleic acids and thus have to be preloaded in advance of starting the fluid handling steps. In particular it defines intended positions target object positions of consumables with respect to the racks into which the consumables are to be placed when preloaded. It also defines intended positions target object positions of consumables with respect to individual plates trays and cartridges into which consumables such as tips and bottles are to be placed when preloaded. The process operation plan may optionally also define identity and or orientation with respect to the intended position of individual consumables to be used for the automated extraction of nucleic acids.

The control computer further includes a display signalizing device for displaying graphical representations and or messages to be read by the user. In order to enable manual data input the control computer can e.g. include a key panel not illustrated . Otherwise the display can e.g. be embodied as touch screen to display information and enter data.

The system further includes a pre analytical processing device generally referred to at for processing of fluids located on the work area . The processing device e.g. includes heating and magnetic separation devices not illustrated for the automated extraction of nucleic acids. Since extraction of nucleic acids is well known to those of skill in the art it is not further herein.

Reference is made to depicting a flow chart illustrating exemplary process steps for the processing of nucleic acids containing fluids according to the process operation plan.

Accordingly beginning with starting the process process step I e.g. when powering up system different process operation plans are displayed process step II on the display for selection by a user. After manually and or automatically preloading various consumables and the nucleic acids containing solutions actuating the control computer the user can select a process operation plan according to the specific operations to be performed for the processing of nucleic acids containing fluids process step III .

As above detailed the process operation plan defines the consumables which are to be used for the processing of nucleic acids containing fluids as well as target positions identities and orientations with respect to the intended position of individual consumables. It may be provided that the user can also enter various process parameters for tailoring the process operation plan to specific needs.

Having a process operation plan selected as desired a subroutine CHECK PRESENCE process step IV starts. This subroutine starts a control run in which the sensor array of ultrasonic sensors is moved over the racks to determine if consumables are present in their intended positions as defined by the process operation plan.

For the purpose of illustration only it is now assumed that according to the process operation plan the extraction of nucleic acids needs two processing plates filled with nucleic acids containing solutions and four tip trays filled with pipetting tips to be placed in the corresponding retaining sections of the processing rack and tip tray rack respectively which thus define target object positions.

The display can e.g. display the work plate or one or more parts thereof to visualize the consumables at their intended positions required for the processing of the fluids i.e. extraction of nucleic acids. Hence based on this visual information the user can readily charge the system with the required consumables. Charging of the system with consumables can be performed by manual and or automatic charging operations.

In order to determine the presence of objects the ultrasonic sensors are moved over the intended locations of the tip trays by means of the transfer head . Stated more particularly when moving the ultrasonic sensors over the tip trays first acoustic waves are generated and emitted towards the intended locations of the processing plates with first signals time between emission of acoustic waves and reception of reflected acoustic waves of the reflected first acoustic waves being measured. Furthermore at least one second acoustic wave is generated and emitted towards a predetermined surface such as a dedicated reference surface of the tip tray rack with a second signal time between emission of acoustic waves and reception of reflected acoustic waves of the reflected second acoustic wave being measured. The determination of the presence of the tips contained in the tip trays is similarly performed except for emitting the at least one second acoustic wave towards a predetermined surface of each of the tip trays and measuring second signals of the second acoustic waves reflected therefrom.

Similarly when moving the ultrasonic sensors over the intended locations of the processing plates first acoustic waves are generated and emitted towards the intended locations of the processing plates with first signals round trip times of the reflected first acoustic waves being measured. Furthermore at least one second acoustic wave is generated and emitted towards a predetermined surface of the processing rack with a second signal round trip time of the reflected second acoustic wave being measured.

The determination of the presence of objects is analogously repeated for each of the consumables to be used for processing of nucleic acids containing fluids with the presence of objects being either determined with respect to the rack to which it belongs or with respect to the plate tray or cartridge to which it belongs.

Alternatively the determination of the presence of objects may be based on determining distances of the reflecting surfaces from the ultrasonic sensor based on the resulting round trip time time of travel measurements.

Then a subroutine CHECK FLUID LEVELS process step IV starts. This subroutine starts a control run in which the ultrasonic sensors are moved over one or both of the processing plates containing the nucleic acids containing fluids in which the fluid levels are determined as detailed below in connection with .

The racks are kept stationary during determining the presence of consumables and fluid levels of the fluids contained in the processing plates .

In the following process step process step V for each of the consumables to be used the first and second signals are compared with each other in calculating a difference of the first and second signals round trip times or distances . The difference of the signals then is compared with an intended difference of signals as defined by the process operation plan. In case the difference of signals matches the intended difference of signal amplitudes it is assumed that the consumable concerned is in its target position. Furthermore determined fluid levels of fluids contained in the processing plates are compared with intended fluid levels as defined by the process operation plan. In case the fluid levels match the intended fluid levels it is assumed that the fluid levels are correct.

In case a mismatch concerning the presence of consumables is determined a message is displayed on the display containing information guiding the user to load missing and or misplaced disposables process step VI . In case a mismatch concerning the fluid levels is determined another message is displayed on the display containing information guiding the user to load the missing fluids process step VI .

Otherwise the display can e.g. display the work plate or one or more parts thereof in a manner to visualize a possible mismatch between the consumables actually present in the system and the required consumables as defined by the process operation plan. Based on this visual information the user can verify the result of the charging operation and can readily add missing consumables e.g. by a manual charging operation.

Having loaded the missing or misplaced consumables and or nucleic acids containing fluids the user can re start the subroutine CHECK PRESENCE and or the subroutine CHECK FLUID LEVELS as desired actuating the control computer .

In case there is no mismatch determined another subroutine EXTRACTION process step VIII is started for performing the steps for extracting the nucleic acids which is not further detailed herein which ends when purified nucleic acids have be obtained process step IX .

When performing the subroutine EXTRACTION subroutine CHECK PRESENCE as illustrated in and subroutine CHECK FLUID LEVELS as illustrated in may be performed.

In case during extraction of nucleic acids arises a need of manually and or automatically refilling of consumables e.g. due to a low storage capacity of the system presence of refilled consumables in their intended locations has to be automatically checked prior to continuing nucleic acids extraction. Accordingly the subroutine CHECK PRESENCE as already above detailed is started process step I to check if there is a mismatch between a difference of signal values and an intended difference of signal values process step II as defined by the process operation plan. In case of mismatch a message is displayed on the display process step III so that the user can restart the subroutine CHECK PRESENCE process step IV actuating the control computer as desired. In case of no mismatch the subroutine EXTRACTION is continued.

In case of pipetting fluids during extraction of the nucleic acids a need may arise to check the fluid level of fluids after pipetting. Accordingly the subroutine CHECK FLUID LEVELS as detailed below is started process step I to check if there is a mismatch between the actual fluid levels and the intended fluid levels process step II as defined by the process operation plan. In case of mismatch a message is displayed on the display and or the user can initiate an automated fluid level correction and or the user can restart the subroutine CHECK FLUID LEVELS actuating the control computer . In case of no mismatch the subroutine EXTRACTION is continued.

Accordingly prior to starting and or during nucleic acids containing fluid processing the presence of consumables to be used for the processing of fluids in intended positions as defined by the process operation plan is controlled scanning the consumables by means of the ultrasonic sensors .

Additionally an identity and or orientation of individual consumables with respect to their intended positions as defined by the process operation plan may be performed e.g. determining a geometric profile in particular a height profile height pattern of individual objects which is compared with an intended profile for the consumable concerned.

Due to the linear sensor array adapted to the rows of the planar arrays of plates and trays presence of consumables contained therein and or fluid levels of fluids contained therein may be efficiently controlled in parallel when moving the sensor array along the stacking direction of rows and simultaneously determining the presence of objects and or fluid levels.

Intended signal values as defined by the process operation plan may be readily adapted in calibrating the ultrasonic sensor signals using reference surfaces of the racks and plates respectively.

Reference is now made to illustrating a diagram depicting a time of travel indicating curve for determining fluid levels in the output plate using the sensor array of the system .

Specifically indicates time of travel measurements of an ultrasonic sensor which is continuously moved along the second direction stacking direction of rows as indicated by arrow see of the output plate . The x axis of this diagram is indicating a travel time of the positioning device which relates to a position on the process area given a reference starting position of the positioning device and its velocity. The time of travel measurements are obtained in transmitting acoustic waves towards the output plate and receiving the acoustic waves upon reflection to thereby determine a time interval between transmitted and received acoustic waves. The y axis of this diagram depicts the turn around time of an acoustic wave emitted by the ultrasonic sensor reflected vertically from the location of the process area underneath and received by the ultrasonic sensor. Accordingly a time of travel profile of the output plate as seen by the ultrasonic sensor is obtained.

When interpreting the time of travel profile of positions of individual wells along the second direction can be determined based on a detection of falling and rising edges with respect to a reference level R to R which corresponds to the plane level of the output plate . Having identified each of the wells well levels W to W in between adjacent falling and rising edges corresponding to fluid levels in the wells are determined for instance e.g. using the mean function or the highest value between the edges. Accordingly as a result of above analysis the output plate is determined to include seven half full wells and five empty wells.

Using the ultrasonic sensors of the linear sensor array in a way as exemplified in for a single ultrasonic sensor all wells of the output plate can be efficiently scanned with respect to fluid level detection in a single run.

Alternatively the sensor array may be continuously moved along the first direction direction according to which wells are arranged in individual rows as indicated by arrow see of the output plate . Yet alternatively the sensor array may continuously moved to perform a combined movement along the first and second directions of the output plate .

Combining movements of the pipetting tips for pipetting of liquids for the automated extraction of nucleic acids with movements of the ultrasonic sensors for detecting of fluid levels the outcome of pipetting operations may be efficiently controlled by fluid level detection for instance in performing pipetting operations when moving the transfer head in one direction of travel and performing fluid levels detection when moving the transfer head in an opposite direction of travel. More particularly when determining fluid levels prior to pipetting operations and also after the pipetting operations pipetted volumes may be determined. Basically information obtained in scanning along one dimension can be considered sufficient in case consumables are symmetrically arranged along such scanning directions.

As can be seen in the user is instructed by the screen display to load bottles which are MGP bottles i.e. bottles holding a suspension of magnetic glass particles and DNAse reagent bottles i.e. a DNA digesting reagent into the indicated positions target positions in the bottle rack . Further the first reagent rack needs to be filled with the reagent plate processing cartridge and two specific reagents . The tip tray rack needs to be filled with two tip trays pre filled with tips and the processing rack is to be filled with the processing plate sample cartridge and the output plate . When the user has disposed the objects accordingly he can press an OK button and the control computer proceeds with the process operation plan. As described above it is checked with one or more ultrasonic sensors if objects are present in the prescribed positions. As also described before it may be further checked by the profile of the objects if proper objects have been loaded. By this it can be for example detected when tips have been loaded in a position for reagents.

Loading mistakes can be signalled to the user by e.g. text messages as please load tips or sample cartridge is missing .

Further a similar screen display as depicted in can be employed to signal loading mistakes by colour coded representation of missing objects or misplaced objects. E.g. a missing tip tray can be depicted in red and flashing.

Accordingly by the above discussion a system for the automated processing of fluids according to a process operation plan involving the use of preloaded objects in which the process operation plan defines preloaded objects to be present in target object positions has been disclosed. The system comprises a processing area in which objects to be used for the processing of fluids are located at least one ultrasonic sensor adapted for determining the presence of objects by means of acoustical waves a positioning device to which the ultrasonic sensor is fixed adapted to move the ultrasonic sensor in at least one direction relative to said processing area a control computer being configured to determine the presence of objects and determining if objects are present in target object positions e.g. retaining sections in said processing area as defined by said process operation plan at least one pipetting device for pipetting of fluids between cavities located in said processing area and an analytical or pre analytical processing device for processing of fluids located in said processing area .

In another embodiment the system further comprises a plurality of ultrasonic sensors arranged in a sensor array said control computer being configured to simultaneously determine the presence of objects and determining if objects are present in said target object positions as defined by said process operation plan.

In another embodiment the system further comprises a signalizing device wherein said control computer being configured to signalize a mismatch between objects present and objects required in said target object positions as defined by said process operation plan.

In another embodiment the signalizing device is a display and the control computer is configured to display a representation of one or more parts of said system in order to visualize said target object positions as defined by said process operation plan.

In another embodiment the system further comprises at least one holder adapted to hold said preloaded objects in said target object positions .

In another embodiment a method has been disclosed for determining the matching of objects present in a processing area in an instrument system with preloaded objects to be present in target object positions in said instrument according to a process operation plan. The method comprises the following steps determining the presence of objects relative to the processing area in said instrument by means of at least one ultrasonic sensor and determining if objects are present in target object positions as defined by said process operation plan.

In another embodiment the method further includes a step of outputting a message to a signalizing device based on a result of said determination if objects are present in said target object positions as defined by said process operation plan.

In another embodiment the method further includes a step of displaying a representation of one or more parts of the system in order to visualize the target object positions as defined by said process operation plan.

In another embodiment the method further includes a step of displaying a mismatch between objects present and objects required in said target object positions as defined by said process operation plan.

In another embodiment the message contains user guiding information about objects to be loaded in target object positions into said instrument .

In another embodiment the method further including a step of determining identity and or orientation relative to said instrument of objects present in said instrument.

In another embodiment determining the presence of objects relative to said instrument by said at least one ultrasonic sensor involves moving of the ultrasonic sensor wherein moving of the ultrasonic sensor is combined with moving of a pipetting device for pipetting of fluids.

In another embodiment the method further includes a step of determining of fluid levels of fluids contained in cavities by means of said at least one ultrasonic sensor .

In another embodiment determining of fluid levels involves measuring of distance values of said cavities with respect to a reference distance level as defined by a plane said cavities are arrayed in.

In still another embodiment a method for the automated processing of fluids according to a process operation plan involving the use of preloaded objects comprises utilizing any of the above described methods according to the present invention.

Obviously many modifications and variations of the present invention are possible in light of the above description. It is therefore to be understood that within the scope of appended claims the invention may be practiced otherwise than as specifically devised.

