---

title: Method and system for identity and age verification
abstract: Systems and Methods for identity information verification. The system includes an electronic device and a computing authentication unit. The electronic device includes a data capture unit for electronically scanning first data and second data corresponding to respective first and second locations of an identity document indicative of an individual. The computing authentication unit is configured to: perform a first verification to verify whether the first data matches the second data; perform a second verification, when the first data matches the second data, including comparing aggregated data from both the first and second data to identity data in one or more identity databases to verify personal identity information of the individual indicated in the identity document; and cause the electronic device to indicate a result of at least one of the first verification or the second verification.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09576194&OS=09576194&RS=09576194
owner: Klink Technologies
number: 09576194
owner_city: Boca Raton
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20151013
---
The present application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application. No. 62 063 383 filed Oct. 13 2014 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The present disclosure relates generally to the field of identification systems and identity methods for documents and more particularly to computer implemented methods and systems to identify the contents of documents used for identification purposes while minimizing any human error at a first level of verification and to allow the information to be further verified for scrutiny at a second level of verification.

The problem of rampant and readily available fake identification cards more particularly driver licenses passports has caused many retailers to incur fines and face the loss of tobacco and liquor licenses and has even subjected them to other forms of civil and criminal liability. Over a period of time various attempts have been made to prevent or detect the use of fake identification cards but not with a great deal of success.

The use of driver licenses and passports has expanded over the years to serve as identification for various applications. Examples of such applications include the purchase of alcohol tobacco or lottery products as well as for entrance to venues e.g. gambling in casinos off track betting movie theaters and other user definable events e.g. entrance into bars and nightclubs and other establishments where alcoholic beverages are served or sold . All of these businesses have a minimum age requirement for the purchase of a product at the point of transaction or for ingress into an establishment. A driver license and or passport is typically a document used to provide age identification and many types of age verification may be commonly accomplished in a relatively quick manner based on the identity document. There is a need to easily determine an identity document s authenticity so that an application having an age requirement e.g. purchase of an age restricted product is satisfied e.g. at the time of purchase in a convenient manner.

Aspects of the present disclosure relate to systems and methods for identity information verification. The system includes a user device such as an electronic device and a computing authentication unit. The electronic device includes a data capture unit configured to electronically scan first data and second data corresponding to a respective first location and a second location of an identity document indicative of an individual. The computing authentication unit is coupled to a non transitory memory storing an application. Execution of the application by the computing authentication unit causes the computing authentication unit to perform a first verification comprising comparing the first data of the first location to the second data of the second location to verify whether the first data matches the second data perform a second verification when it is verified that the first data matches the second data the second verification including comparing aggregated data from both the first data and the second data to identity data in one or more identity databases to verify personal identity information of the individual indicated in the identity document and cause the electronic device to indicate a result of at least one of the first verification or the second verification.

A typical identification ID document includes information about the document holder such as a name an address a physical description a date of birth and a photograph. Many ID cards also contain some sort of machine readable identifier such as a magnetic stripe a bar code a smart chip etc. ID documents e.g. ID cards are typically used to restrict access to areas or products by unauthorized cardholders. For example laws in every state require a person to be at least a minimum age to purchase alcohol or tobacco products. Similarly in many states a patron must be at least a minimum age to enter a bar. Typically to verify that a person meets age requirements the person may present an ID card prior to purchasing age restricted products or prior to being admitted to an establishment having age requirements.

The following description of the preferred embodiment or embodiments is not intended to limit the scope of the invention to the precise form or forms disclosed but instead is intended to be illustrative of the principles of the invention so that others skilled in the art may follow its teachings.

Current ID authentication systems either verify one portion of the ID or partially scan certain contents. Most of the time there is incomplete verification of crucial parameters or data in an ID. And even if there is complete matching of data current verification methods are often unable to detect that an ID is fake or fraudulent for example if it has been forged well enough such that data encoded on a machine readable identifier matches data printed on the ID . Current processes are also cumbersome and time consuming thus burdening the consumer and the retailer. In some cases visual detection of fake IDs relies on black light i.e. ultraviolet UV A light or other methods to determine whether or not IDs are issued by appropriate government agencies. A significant quantity of fake ID may easily passes these tests. It is also known in the art that barcode scanners only read the information encoded in the barcode. Thus provided that the barcode is valid and encoded for an earlier date of birth a fake ID may pass through the verification stage without being detected as inauthentic. Some current ID scanners may determine whether information encoded in the barcode agrees with information on the front of the card and whether the front portion of the card conforms to the template of the appropriate state from which the ID is issued. However these ID scanners do not verify the authenticity of the ID card user.

At a different level the quality of fake ID s may lead to fake ID s being mistaken for genuine identification documents based on insufficient examination and in light of the above discussion there is an urgent need to use a sophisticated ID authentication and verification system.

The above mentioned needs may be met by a method and system to enable a user of an ID Authentication and Verification System to verify and ascertain the authenticity of an ID card document and the user of the ID. The ID Authentication and Verification System may include a currently executing software application program or may be part of a currently executing computer program that allows data to be transferred and processed in a plurality of processes where the results or responses thus derived may be sent back to the computer program. The following detailed description is intended to provide example implementations to one of ordinary skill in the art and is not intended to limit the disclosure to the explicit disclosure as one of ordinary skill in the art will understand that variations can be substituted that are within the scope of the present disclosure as described.

The ID Authentication and Verification System verifies and authorizes users in accessing various applications e.g. information products events secured area s equipment etc. . The ID Authentication and Verification System may include a Computing Authentication Unit and a User Device . In some examples Computing Authentication Unit may be a separate entity from User Device and may connected to a Network for transfer of Data to and from a User Device and or to a separate database. For example Computing Authentication Unit may be represented by a server device. In some examples Computing Authentication Unit may be configured as part of User Device e.g. as specialized software running on User Device . In some examples Computing Authentication Unit may include a software package installed on User Device an Application Programming Interface API that the User Device may connect to or a combination thereof.

In general User Device may include at least one data capture device e.g. a camera a machine readable information scanner to capture i.e. scan data e.g. visual data and or machine readable information from an ID document of an individual. Computing Authentication Unit may perform two layers of verification based on the data collected via User Device . The first verification layer may verify the information on the physical ID document itself by comparing information in two separate locations such as both sides of the ID document. This comparison may also include matching templates for providing information in the first and second locations. The first and second locations may represent different locations on opposite sides of the ID document different locations on the same side of the ID document or locations on various pages in a multiple page document. In the description herein the terms first and second locations may be used interchangeably with exemplary locations such as first and second sides as well as front and back sides. The second verification layer may verify the personal identity of the individual indicated on the ID document. Thus the second verification layer may compare the identity of the user on the ID document with known real world identities. Computing Authentication Unit may provide an indication of successful and or failed verification to User Device at various points during the verification process such as prior to the first verification layer after the data collection after the first verification layer before the second verification layer and or after the second verification layer. User Device may also include a user interface for initiating the verification process reviewing verification results received from Computing Authentication Unit and or modifying scanned data for verification e.g. if text data was incorrectly interpreted by User Device and or Computing Authentication Unit .

In some examples Computing Authentication Unit may encrypt and send scanned user data and or verification results as a customer record to one or more databases to form stored Data . For example ID information of an ID document user may be associated with an alcohol delivery order that verifies the age of the customer or associating ID information with a customer record in a database an event attendee a nightclub patron etc. so that an audit may be performed at any point in time if any legal questions arise. Additionally if a user has been identified as fraudulent or an ID is not considered authenticated authenticated such data may be stored to whitelist or blacklist a particular user.

In some examples Computing Authentication Unit may include one or more external Application Programming Interfaces API where the two verification layers may be triggered by an application i.e. identification authentication software via the API. The application may be installed on User Device or on Computing Authentication Unit or the application may exist on a server not shown . In some examples Computing Authentication Unit may include specialized software installed on User Device an API that User Device may connect to or a combination thereof.

In some examples User Device may be used by a user e.g. an employee such as a delivery driver or a bouncer to verify the identity information of the customer on the customer s behalf. In some examples User Device may be used to register for an account on a secure service and a user may be instructed to capture a picture of their ID document as part of the registration. The registration process may occur for the employee and or the customer. The registration process may be performed via the User Device and Computing Authentication Unit .

The Network link s involved in the ID Authentication and Verification System may include any suitable number or arrangement of interconnected networks including both wired and wireless networks. By way of example a wireless communication network link over which mobile devices communicate may utilize a cellular based communication infrastructure. The communication infrastructure may include cellular based communication protocols such as Advanced Mobile Phone System AMPS Code Division Multiple Access CDMA Time Division Multiple Access TDMA Global System for Mobile Communications GSM Integrated Digital Enhanced Network iDEN General Packet Radio Service GPRS Enhanced Data rates for GSM Evolution EDGE Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS Wideband CDMA WCDMA and their variants among others. In various embodiments the Network link may further include or alternately include a variety of communication channels and networks such as a Wireless Local Area Network WLAN Wi Fi Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WiMAX Wide Area Networks WANs Near Field Communication NFC and Bluetooth among others.

The ID Authentication and Verification System may be operably connected with or included within an enterprise network not shown . The Enterprise network may further include one or more of email or exchange servers enterprise application servers internal application store servers authentication AAA servers directory servers Virtual Private Network VPN SSL gateways firewalls among other servers and components. Email or exchange servers may include Exchange Active Sync EAS or other functionality that provides synchronization of contacts calendars tasks and email between Active sync enabled servers and a User Device . Other synchronization products can also be used. The User Device may access or utilize one or more of these enterprise systems or associated functionality.

In some examples a server and or a mobile development service may be hosted and operated by one or more third party service providers and or may be accessed by developers through network using a developer computer. In certain embodiments network may be any suitable type of wired and or wireless network such as an Internet network or dedicated network that allows developers to access the ID Authentication and Verification System through a developer computer. For example as shown in the ID Authentication and Verification System may be in the form of a web server that can be accessed by developers through the Internet using a developer computer.

Developers may access the ID Authentication and Verification System by navigating to one or more web pages using a standard web browser on a developer computer thereby obviating the need to download and or install separate software on the developer computer. In some examples the ID Authentication and Verification System may be a separate client or stand alone software application that can be downloaded by developers from a server and or one or more other third party servers or may be provided to developers through any other suitable means e.g. compact disc CD physical disk etc. and installed on a developer computer.

In accordance with some examples servers hosting the mobile development platform or other third party servers or systems may insert advertisements or other forms of supplementary content into the applications created through the development platform and distributed to end users. The advertisements inserted into the applications may be based on various characteristics such as application type content user information e.g. aggregated demographic data and or geographic or temporal information. In some examples the advertisements may be presented to end users in a non intrusive manner. The advertisements may be presented within or on top of certain content elements included in the applications and or may be displayed temporarily or at certain predetermined stages of the application s execution. In some examples other supplementary notifications such as information related to the availability of updates to downloaded applications new applications available from developers who created the downloaded applications popular applications and or highly rated applications may be sent to end users and or inserted into applications developed through the platform.

In some examples the ID Authentication and Verification System may be developed through a mobile development platform and may be downloaded by end users for installation and or execution on the User Device . The software for ID Authentication and Verification may or may not have been previously installed on particular computers prior to the arrival of the mobile application. The ID Authentication and Verification System may include least two parts the state and the code. The state of the ID Authentication and Verification System may contain all of the data stored carried and or computed by the particular mobile application. The code of the ID Authentication and Verification System may include a set of computer instructions which the host computer intends to carry out on behalf of the mobile app during the execution of the ID Authentication and Verification System by the particular host computer. In addition the ID Authentication and Verification System may have other parts including an Access Control List ACL an itinerary a datastore an audit log and so on.

In some examples the ID Authentication and Verification System may be downloaded from a digital distribution platform for use on supported User Devices .

In some examples the ID Authentication and Verification System may be downloaded from a development platform or a third party application hosting service. In some examples after the ID Authentication and Verification System is downloaded and or launched the ID Authentication and Verification System may access a remote storage medium to retrieve various data including features content and layout for the application and display that data to the end user. In some examples the application data may be accessed from the mobile development platform directly. In other examples the application data may be accessed through a digital distribution platform or a third party service. In some examples the ID Authentication and Verification System and or User Device may cache certain application data retrieved from the remote storage medium. In some examples the ID Authentication and Verification System may determine whether the application should use this cached data or whether it should access the application data from the remote storage medium.

In some examples users may build and compile applications that are capable of running on multiple mobile operating systems and or mobile devices. In some examples the platform may allow users to take advantage of the various features and functionality specific to certain types of mobile devices and operating systems by incorporating and combining components that access these features.

Each User Device category may be associated with the group of User Devices that run a particular mobile operating system e.g. various versions of Apple s iPhone iPad and iPod Touch which run the iOS mobile operating system . Each User Device type may be associated with a subset of a mobile device category based on the type of mobile device e.g. smart phone tablet etc. . Each User Device model may be associated with a single User Device e.g. Apple s iPhone 4 or all models of a particular User Device e.g. Apple s iPhone .

Although it is mentioned that the User Device may run on a particular mobile operating system it is understood that the embodiments of the present disclosure can also be integrated into notebook computers tablet computers personal computers and or Point Of Sale POS systems situated in an in store on premises. The POS system may be configured with a Camera Device and or a machine readable information scanner which may be coupled wired or wirelessly so that information may be captured for the User Device or POS in this case .

It must be noted that in some examples the Barcode Scanning Platform need not use a separate physical component such as a Barcode Scanner. The Camera Module may image the barcode on the ID document meant to be scanned while the Barcode Scanning Platform may read the barcode dynamically.

In some examples a Database not shown used in the ID Authentication and Verification System may include mass storage for data or instructions. As an example and not by way of limitation storage may include a Hard Disk Drive HDD a floppy disk drive flash memory an optical disc a magneto optical disc magnetic tape a Universal Serial Bus USB drive or any combination thereof. Storage may include removable or non removable or fixed media where appropriate. Storage may be internal or external to the computer system where appropriate. In some examples storage may include non volatile solid state memory. In some examples storage may include read only memory ROM . In some examples the ROM may include mask programmed ROM programmable ROM PROM erasable PROM EPROM flash memory or any combination thereof.

In some examples User Device and or System may include an input output I O interface not shown . The I O interface may include hardware software or both providing one and more interfaces for communication between System and one or more I O devices. The System may include one or more of these I O devices where appropriate. One or more of these I O devices may enable communication between a person and computer system . As an example and not by way of limitation an I O device may include a keyboard a microphone a display a touch screen a mouse a speaker a camera another suitable I O device or any combination thereof. An I O device may include one or more sensors. The present disclosure contemplates any suitable I O devices and any suitable I O interfaces for the I O devices. Where appropriate an I O interface may include one or more device or software drivers enabling a processor to drive one or more of these I O devices. An I O interface may include one or more I O interfaces where appropriate. Although the present disclosure describes and illustrates a particular I O interface the present disclosure contemplates any suitable I O interface.

In some examples User Device and or system may include a communication interface not shown . The communication interface may include hardware and or software providing one or more interfaces for communication such as for example packet based communication between a computer system and one or more other computer systems or one or more networks. As an example and not by way of limitation a communication interface may include a network interface controller NIC for communicating with an Ethernet or other wire based network or a wireless NIC WNIC for communicating with a wireless network such as a WI FI network. The present disclosure contemplates any suitable network and any suitable communication interface thereof. As an example and not by way of limitation System may communicate with an ad hoc network a personal area network PAN a local area network LAN a WAN a metropolitan area network MAN or one or more portions of the Internet or any combination thereof. One or more portions of one or more of these networks may be wired or wireless. As an example the System may communicate with a wireless PAN WPAN e.g. a BLUETOOTH WPAN a WI FI network e.g. a 802.11a b g n WI FI network a WI MAX network a cellular telephone network e.g. a GSM network a Long Term Evolution LTE or XLTE network other suitable wireless networks or any combination thereof.

In particular embodiments User Device and or system may include a bus not shown . The bus may include hardware and or software coupling components of the System to each other. As an example and not by way of limitation the bus may include an Accelerated Graphics Port AGP or other graphics bus an Enhanced Industry Standard Architecture EISA bus a front side bus FSB a HYPERTRANSPORT HT interconnect an INFINIBAND interconnect a low pin count LPC bus a memory bus a Peripheral Component Interconnect Express or PCI Express bus a serial advanced technology attachment SATA bus an Inter Integrated Circuit C bus a Secure Digital SD memory interface a Secure Digital Input Output SDIO interface a Universal Serial Bus USB bus a General Purpose Input Output GPIO bus another suitable bus or any combination thereof. The bus may include one or more buses where appropriate.

In an example embodiment of the present disclosure a technical problem may be solved by adding a second verification layer that verifies the personal identity of the individual on the ID to an ID based age identity verification process. This particular process may help to eliminate the number of fake IDs which pass traditional verification techniques.

Generally traditional scanning and verification techniques may include any technique previously used to authenticate the age of an individual including but not limited to looking at an ID and performing a series of mathematical calculations on the birth date or barcode scanners which pull the encoded information off of the back of an ID and then perform the final series of calculations using the birth date.

In another example embodiment of the present disclosure the ID Authentication and Verification System may be used by at least liquor stores restaurants bars nightclubs and any other business oriented platform retailer venue or other place or enterprise that desires verification of the age or identity of an individual in person. Although the above description mentions the use of the ID Authentication and Verification System in a some examples of business establishments it is understood that aspects of the present disclosure may be implemented in any possible scenario requiring ascertaining and validating the contents of an ID document by the ID Authentication and Verification System .

More particularly the ID Authentication and Verification System may be used in business establishments that sell products or services whose sale rental or lease is governed by laws or regulations that stipulate a minimum age for such transactions attendance entry or patronage or businesses that need or desire to verify a person s age or identity in the course of business. The verification technology may also be used to verify identities and ages from state ID cards passports and other government issued and privately issued identification documents that can aid in the process of confirming or verifying a person s identity.

The Camera Module may be located internally or may be externally connected to a User Device . For example the Camera Module may be a module in a Smart Phone such as a Moto X. It is not a prerequisite for a Smart Phone s camera to be of a certain pixel quality. However it is desirable that the Camera Module be configured to capture images and data clearly to scan from the first and second locations e.g. front and back portions of an ID document. In general the Camera Module may include flash functionality or other supplemental scanning technology to scan both the first and second locations such as the front and back portions of the User s ID clearly and legibly for suitable processing and analysis of the first and second location data portions by the Computing Authentication Unit .

Furthermore the text image hologram and or layout data from the first location e.g. front portion of the ID and the barcode or other machine readable information from the second location e.g. back of the ID may be used and considered for verification purposes. Typically it is considered that the text data is located at the front portion of the ID and the barcode or other machine readable information is used from the back portion of the ID. The placement of such text and machine readable information on the ID document may vary depending on the country and the jurisdiction by which or in which the ID was issued and aspects of the present disclosure are intended to cover every such assortment.

In another example of the present subject matter an API uses an OCR technique to allow for the electronic conversion of scanned or photographed images of typewritten or printed text and other symbols or characters from the first location e.g. front portion of the ID into machine encoded computer readable text and other characters or symbols and this data is then compared to the information data encoded in the barcode on the first or second portions such as the back reverse portion of the ID i.e. the second location . In general the data converted by OCR may represent human readable data whereas the data decoded from the machine readable indicator e.g. a barcode may represent machine readable data. Accordingly in some examples the first verification may include comparing human readable data first data from a first location on the ID document to machine readable data second data from a second location on the ID document. It should be noted that in some examples the User Device may be configured to communicate with the Computing Authentication Unit over the Network via an API. The APIs used in examples of the present disclosure may be a third party API a licensed API or developed by any software developer.

The API used may also ensure that the template of the ID matches the template for the jurisdiction by which the ID was issued. For example if the ID was issued in and or by the state of Arizona the Licensed API may be configured to properly ascertain and scrutinize the information and template provided. The template may be a visual representation. In general the template represents a model document of the ID issued by the relevant jurisdiction. The visual representation may come in several forms such as a photograph a vector image a drawing a layout a relational layout of graphical components etc. In some examples System may use algorithms offered by external APIs to achieve the template matching. In some examples the template matching may occur through a process directly on the User Device or on Computing Authentication Unit . In general the template matching algorithm may include but is not limited to checking the layout of the document ensuring that one or more components of the visual design of the template are present on the ID ensuring that one or more components of the visual design of the template are placed in proper proximity on the ID ensuring that one or more data fields from the template are present on the ID and filled out ensuring that colors on the ID match the template colors ensuring the presence of particular holograms etc. In some examples template matching may also be used to determine which optical character recognized fields correspond to particular data types e.g. line corresponds to a name line corresponds to an address etc. . In some examples template matching may be performed prior to comparing first and second locations of the ID document. Thus in some examples the verification process may terminate if the document layout does not match the predetermined template.

In case it is ascertained that the information obtained from the first and second locations e.g. front and back of the ID document corresponds to an individual having a fake ID with a barcode of some other person which is encoded with a different date and year of birth the System would reject that particular ID. Next a certain portion of the collected information may be transferred to a second API which assists in age verification. The second API may obtain that particular collected information and compare it against various databases to verify the age and identity of the user. Although it is mentioned that a second API is implemented examples of the present disclosure may also be configured to use a single API by placing a call to the second verification layer of the Computing Authentication Unit .

The double layer of verification may ensure that even the most sophisticated fake IDs do not pass the test of identity age verification without the individual having a fake identity that goes along with the fraudulent ID document. The double layer of verification methodology may ensure that the best fake or fraudulent identification documents cannot pass age identity verification unless the false or fraudulent information printed or encoded on the identification documents is linked to a fully established fake identity that is corroborated by diverse established identity databases.

Fraudulent IDs may generated in a number of ways. A typical fake ID may just change the information on the front of an existing ID. In this case the fake ID document may be rejected in the first layer of verification by System . If the fake ID document somehow made its way to the second layer of verification it would also be rejected by System .

An example of this scenario is if someone were to print a fake ID by using an ID of an individual who is of legal age and digitally altering the name to match their own name. Another example of this scenario includes someone digitally altering the date of birth on their own ID to make the person appear to be of legal age. A more sophisticated fake ID will have a seemingly valid barcode on the back of the ID that passes tests on other barcode scanners. That is the ID may have a barcode on one side that is readable by hardware and software elements that can scan and decode barcodes. If the data encoded in the barcode does not match the information on the front of the ID e.g. the barcode is from another valid ID with an earlier birth date or with a different name or address which is common in the case of fake IDs then the first layer of verification will catch the discrepancy between the information provided on the front and the back of the ID. If the data encoded in the barcode does match the information on the front of the ID but the ID is still fake the ID will be rejected during the second layer of verification where the actual identity of the person is checked.

To summarize there are several possible versions of underage fraudulent ID s which the embodiments of the present disclosure are intended to accurately detect and thwart . Some possible scenarios of fake IDs are enumerated below 

Scenario I may be identified by System in the second layer of verification. IDs in Scenario I are becoming less common as all jurisdictions move to require barcodes on the back of the IDs. Scenario II may also be identified by System in the first layer of verification. Scenario III may be identified by System in the second layer of verification. The barcode and template match may allow the ID to pass the first layer of verification. However the second layer of verification may identify the fraudulent ID document because the person s name and address will not correspond to the listed date of birth when checked against one or more identity databases . Scenario IV may be identified by System in the first layer of verification.

In a possible embodiment an Authentication Module not shown may be used to verify the authenticity of users and secure the authentication process for verification purposes. The authentication module may be included as part of User Device as part of Computing Authentication Unit or may be on a remote server in System . For example when a user logs in to register himself on the ID Authentication and Verification System the Authentication Module may provide a captcha or a similar identification image in order to prevent robotic entries. The process may involve the verification of both the cardholder s identity and the card s authenticity. The Authentication Module in case the present disclosure extends to payment security can employ any one or combination of well known authentication methods such as Address Verification Service AVS Card Security Codes or Verified by Visa and MasterCard Secure code methods.

Referring to Steps to depict the first layer of verification and steps to depict the second layer of verification. The scanning steps and may be performed by at least one data capture unit of the User Device . The first layer of verification steps and and the second layer of verification steps may be performed by Computing Authentication Unit . In some examples Computing Authentication Unit may perform the indicated steps of the first and second layers of verification via respective first and second APIs. The first API and or layer may check that the first location e.g. the front of the ID conforms to a specific government s issued template and to also check that the information provided on the first and second locations e.g. front and back of the government issued ID match. Further the second API layer may ensure that the identification of the individual is corroborated by the available data on the person thereby allowing verifying the identity and age of the person.

At step the first location e.g. front portion of the ID may be scanned by the Camera Module of the User Device to scan first data representing the first location e.g. front portion of the ID. At step OCR related information may be obtained from the first data representing the first location e.g. front portion of the ID for example using OCR techniques. At step template matching of the first location e.g. front portion of the ID may be performed for example according to locations on the front portion from the first data as compared to locations on a predetermined template gathered from one or more sources of ID template data e.g. a predetermined issuing body s ID template such as a state license template . In some examples when the template matching fails to match the first location e.g. front portion information to the predetermined template System may send an indication to User Device that the ID fails the verification process and the process may terminate at step . Alternatively the end user may be notified and allowed to manually bypass this portion of the verification e.g. for low light situations where it s very difficult to get a good picture to match a template .

At step the second location e.g. back portion of the ID may be scanned by the Camera Module or a machine readable information scanner of the User Device to scan second data representing the second location e.g. back portion of the ID. At step information may be decoded from the second data that may represent a barcode or other machine readable data.

At step information obtained via the OCR technique step may be compared against the information obtained via decoding step . When the information from the first data does not match the information from the second data the ID may fail the first layer of verification. At that point the System may send an indication to User Device that the ID fails the verification process and the process may terminate at step . Alternatively the end user may be notified and allowed to manually bypass this portion of the verification e.g. for low light situations where it s very difficult to get a good picture to match a template .

When Computing Authentication Unit determines that the information from the first data does match the information from the second data the first verification layer may proceed to the second verification layer. Accordingly step may proceed to step .

In an example Computing Authentication Unit may use a second API along with at least a portion of the information collected i.e. accumulated from the first layer of the verification process. The second API in step may obtain the accumulated information and compare this information against identity data in one or more identity databases to search for an identity matching the information collected during the first layer of the verification process. For example information such as a first name a last name a date of birth an address of residence etc. may compared to verify the person s personal identity information e.g. identity and or age . Accordingly the second verification layer may ensure that the identity information gathered earlier in the process matches the identity information associated with that individual in the databases against which the information is checked. Accordingly the data from the first and second locations e.g. front and back of the ID document e.g. a government issued ID may be compared against one or more identity databases to establish identity and corroborate age or identity of the person.

In some examples the Computing Authentication Unit may compare the aggregated information against plural identity databases. In general a degree of accuracy and or confidence of System may increase as the amount of data against which the accumulated information from the ID can be compared increases.

At the second layer of verification at step portions of the accumulated data gathered from the first and second locations e.g. the front and back of the ID document in steps may be selected for the second verification. The portions selected may include for example a name an address a driver s license number or any suitable information that may be useful for comparison against known identity data. Thus in some examples a portion less than all of the collected information may be used for the second verification.

Further to this at Step the ID Authentication and Verification System may compare the obtained portion of accumulated data against one or more identity databases and may return a verdict on the credentials of the verified age identity of the person. In other words System may determine whether the information on the ID matches and agrees with a real world identity of the individual. In some examples Computing Authentication Unit may present an indication on User Device e.g. verification confirmed verification rejected for example via an input output interface of User Device . At step Computing Authentication Unit may encrypt the collected information encrypted and send the collected information to a server. Information may be encrypted for the purpose of security such as in the case of a security breach caused by a hacker or because of other security breaches . The collected information may be stored as a customer record in Data .

In an example all of the ID parameters i.e. collected information may not be transferred to be matched against identity database s as physical attributes such as hair color eye color and height may be superfluous for the authentication of the identity. However these parameters may still be stored to establish demographics of a customer base or profile returning customers.

In some examples the ID Authentication and Verification System may also capture image data such as the photograph of the person from the first location e.g. the front portion of the ID and the signature image from other portions of the ID to aid in the authentication and verification process.

Overall it may be appreciated that examples of the present disclosure use two verification layers for the purpose of verifying the age identity of an individual and tries to solve the lacunae in traditional scanning techniques by adding a second verification layer to the age based verification processes.

One advantage of the present disclosure is that it may help eliminate the number of fraudulent IDs which pass through traditional scanning and screening techniques. Accordingly System may help to prevent unlawful purchase transactions or unlawful entry or admission to businesses or other places in which a minimum legal age requirement may be circumvented through the use of a fake or fraudulent ID documents.

In some examples System may use the information available from the ID document e.g. a first name a last name an address and a date of birth to ensure that the information corresponds to a real identity that has that information. In other words the System seeks to match information. If the data on an ID has a real name and that person s real address but a fake date of birth the System may determine that the date of birth provided does not match the real date of birth of the person whose name and address match the name and address provided on the ID. Similarly if the ID has a real name a fake address and a fake date of birth the System may determine that a person by that name is not in fact associated with that address and identify that the ID is fraudulent.

Consider that a teenager walks into a liquor store and demands a case of beer. The store clerk checks the ID of the teenager physically and then scans it with his mobile phone. The store clerk would have downloaded the ID Authentication and Verification System s application from an application store e.g. an iOS Apple App Store . The clerk may capture an image of the front portion of the ID with the mobile phone s camera and may capture the barcode on the back of the ID also with the mobile phone s camera. The API s used in the ID Authentication and Verification System may return responses in less than a second delivering a verification and authentication result to the user. It may take a little longer depending on the user and his ability to manually check the accuracy of the information returned before initiating the second layer of verification. The speed of the process may also be affected by the speed of the network used by the user s device i.e. User Device . At this point the Background processes running may include 1 sending data from the ID document to the second API for verification against databases 2 encrypting data 3 communicating data and results of verification back to servers. The background processes running during the first layer of verification may include template matching data matching from the front and back of the ID document and any sending returning of the information by the ID Authentication and Verification System . Other actions may be taken based on the result of the verification. Next the status of the customer s order is updated based on the result of the verification process. Because the legal age of drinking and procuring alcohol in America is 21 it was found by the enhanced verification process that the teenager had procured a fake ID and as a result was not allowed to purchase the items.

In an example after the first layer of the verification process and before the second layer of the verification process users may be given the opportunity to manually correct any information pulled from the ID before initiating the second layer of verification in case the OCR method does not read the information as clearly as it should. For example the poorly captured data may result from a poor photograph or overhead glare.

In an example the OCR technique may recognize characters on the front of the ID by discerning text characters from a photographic image and may compare them to the information that is decoded from the barcode on the back of the ID. If the information does not match up to a reasonable degree the ID Authentication and Verification System may indicate that that the ID may be fraudulent. It is also noted that examples of the present disclosure facilitate using a driver retailer ID scanning verification app which retailers and drivers may use to verify the age of the customer at the point of delivery or the point of purchase.

The example computer system may include a processor e.g. a central processing unit CPU a graphics processing unit GPU or both a main memory and a static memory which communicate with each other via a bus . The computer system may further include a video display unit e.g. a liquid crystal display LCD or a cathode ray tube CRT . The computer system may also include an alpha numeric input device e.g. a keyboard a user interface UI navigation device e.g. a mouse a disk drive unit a signal generation device e.g. a speaker and a network interface device . The computer system may also include one or more environmental input devices that may provide a number of inputs describing the environment in which the computer system or another device exists including but not limited to any of a Global Positioning System GPS receiver a temperature sensor a light sensor a still photo or video camera an audio sensor e.g. a microphone a velocity sensor a gyroscope an accelerometer and a compass.

The disk drive unit may include a machine readable medium on which is stored one or more sets of data structures and instructions e.g. software embodying or utilized by any one or more of the methodologies or functions described herein. The instructions may also reside completely or at least partially within the main memory and or within the processor during execution thereof by the computer system the main memory and the processor also constituting machine readable media.

While the machine readable medium is shown in an example embodiment to be a single medium the term machine readable medium may include a single medium or multiple media e.g. a centralized or distributed database and or associated caches and servers that store the one or more instructions or data structures. The term non transitory machine readable medium shall also be taken to include any tangible medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying instructions for execution by the machine and that cause the machine to perform any one or more of the methodologies of the present subject matter or that is capable of storing encoding or carrying data structures utilized by or associated with such instructions. The term non transitory machine readable medium shall accordingly be taken to include but not be limited to solid state memories and optical and magnetic media. Specific examples of non transitory machine readable media include but are not limited to non volatile memory including by way of example semiconductor memory devices e.g. Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory EPROM Electrically Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory EEPROM and flash memory devices magnetic disks such as internal hard disks and removable disks magneto optical disks and CD ROM and digital versatile disk DVD ROM DVD ROM disks.

The instructions may further be transmitted or received over a computer network using a transmission medium. The instructions may be transmitted using the network interface device and any one of a number of well known transfer protocols e.g. Hyptertext Transfer Protocol HTTP . Examples of communication networks include a LAN a WAN the Internet mobile telephone networks Plain Old Telephone Service POTS networks and wireless data networks e.g. WiFi and WiMAX networks . The term transmission medium shall be taken to include any intangible medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying instructions for execution by the machine and includes digital or analog communications signals or other intangible media to facilitate communication of such software.

As described herein computer software products may be written in any of various suitable programming languages such as but not limited to C C C Pascal Fortran Perl Matlab from MathWorks SAS SPSS JavaScript Objective C PHP and Java. The computer software product may be an independent application with data input and data display modules. Alternatively the computer software products may be classes that may be instantiated as distributed objects. The computer software products may also be component software for example Java Beans from Sun Microsystems or Enterprise Java Beans EJB from Sun Microsystems . Functionality described herein may be implemented in computer software computer hardware or any combination thereof.

Furthermore a computer configured to run the previously mentioned computer software may be connected to a network and may interface to other computers using the network. The network may include an intranet internet or the Internet among others. The network may include a wired network for example using an electrical conductor a telephone network a packet network an optical network for example using optical fiber a wireless network or any combination thereof. For example data and other information may be passed between the computer and components or steps of a system using a wireless network based on a protocol for example Wi Fi IEEE standards 802.11 802.11a 802.11b 802.11e 802.11g 802.11i and 1802.11n . In one example signals from the computer may be transferred at least in part wirelessly to components or other computers.

It is to be understood that although various components are illustrated herein as separate entities each illustrated component represents a collection of functionalities which can be implemented as software hardware firmware or any combination of these. Where a component is implemented as software it may be implemented as a standalone program but may also be implemented in other ways for example as part of a larger program as a plurality of separate programs as a kernel loadable module as one or more device drivers or as one or more statically or dynamically linked libraries.

Furthermore as will be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the relevant art the portions modules agents managers components functions procedures actions layers features attributes methodologies and other aspects of the disclosure may be implemented as software hardware firmware or any combination thereof. Of course wherever a component of the present disclosure is implemented as software the component may be implemented as a script as a standalone program as part of a larger program as a plurality of separate scripts and or programs as a statically or dynamically linked library as a kernel loadable module as a device driver and or in any other way known now or in the future to those of skill in the art of computer programming. Additionally the present disclosure is in no way limited to implementation in any specific programming language or for any specific operating system or environment.

Furthermore it will be readily apparent to those of ordinary skill in the relevant art that where the present disclosure is implemented in whole or in part in software the software components thereof may be stored on computer readable media as computer program products. Any form of computer readable medium may be used in this context such as magnetic or optical storage media. Additionally software portions of the present disclosure may be instantiated for example as object code or executable images within the memory of any programmable computing device.

While the present disclosure has been discussed in terms of certain embodiments it should be appreciated that the present disclosure is not so limited. The embodiments are explained herein by way of example and there are numerous modifications variations and other embodiments that may be employed that would still be within the scope of the present disclosure. Accordingly the disclosure of the present disclosure is intended to be illustrative but not limiting of the scope of the disclosure which is set forth in the following claims.

