---

title: System and method for workforce data management
abstract: Embodiments include a system and method of workforce data management including a wearable device, a scanner and a database server. The scanner emits a radius to identify an area around the wearable device, scans the area to detect the wearable device and transmits outgoing data to the wearable device. The scanner receives incoming data from the wearable device, processes the incoming data, and filters the incoming data to qualify accuracy of the incoming data. After filtering the incoming data, the scanner determines whether a portion of the incoming data includes accurate data capture. When the portion of the incoming data includes accurate data capture, the scanner outputs a corresponding trust score and transmits the portion of the incoming data to the database server. When the portion of the incoming data includes inaccurate data capture, the scanner outputs a corresponding trust score and awaits further action from the wearable device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09471900&OS=09471900&RS=09471900
owner: Genesys Impact, LLC
number: 09471900
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150818
---
Embodiments of the invention generally relate to systems and methods of workforce data management to remotely acquire data associated with employees in an automated manner over a wireless network. Embodiments enable employee time management expense and budget management safety and security solutions and asset control within a predefined workforce environment.

Generally tracking employees in a given workforce environment enable companies to manage clock ins and clock outs of employees during scheduled time frames to ensure employees are working during their allotted time schedules.

Typically work sites include a vast amount of entries and exits during a work period as well as movement from one location to another within an enclosed environment. Generally tracking employees movements and tasks within a workforce environment requires constant monitoring. Typically it is difficult to accurately capture the time and attendance of an employee during working hours idle time of an employee during working hours and therefrom accurately submitting timestamps for payroll and accounting. Generally time keeping of multiple employees in a given worksite raises a risk of credibility and accuracy of the timestamps obtained from each employee.

For example U.S. Pat. No. 9 020 848 entitled Method and System for Time and Location Tracking to Ridge et al. discloses a method of tracking time and location of an employee based on a predefined schedule using a time tracking software installed on a mobile device. According to Ridge et al. the time tracking software enables detection of the presence or lack of presence of an electronic signal emitted by a near field communication Bluetooth low energy or other wireless device to trigger the mobile application to communicate to a server to determine if the employee is scheduled to work at a work zone to clock in and or clock out the employee. However the system of Ridge et al. appears to lack any teaching or suggestion of determining the accuracy of the time and location data acquired via a wearable device to automatically and appropriately aggregate data obtained from the wearable device to clock in and or clock out the employees.

United States Patent Publication 20130290200 entitled Systems and Methods of Compliance Tracking to Singhal et al. appears to disclose a system and method that provides automated compliance and operations management services wherein user tracking information may be received and stored. According to Singhal et al. the time tracking information may be analyzed to generate information for compliance or operations management to automate the process of monitoring collecting storing analyzing and utilizing data and information. However the system of Singhal et al. appears to lack any teaching or suggestion of determining the accuracy of the time and location data acquired via a wearable device to automatically and appropriately aggregate data obtained from the wearable device to clock in and or clock out the employees based on one or more conditions of the employees and the wearable device thereof.

For example U.S. Pat. No. 8 626 545 entitled Predicting Future Performance of Multiple Workers on Crowdsourcing Tasks and Selecting Repeated Crowdsourcing Workers to Van Pelt et al. appears to disclose a system and method of a job distribution platform for aggregating performance data in a worker profile for workers in performing crowd source tasks. According to Van Pelt et al. the tasks may span current jobs and a history of pervious jobs distributed to the worker and the job performance data for the worker is collected for current and previous jobs such that new jobs may be assigned to a worker selected based on performance data of the worker. However the system of Van Pelt et al. appears to lack any teaching or suggestion of determining the accuracy of the data acquired to automatically and appropriately aggregate data obtained from the wearable device clock in and or clock out the workers based on one or more conditions of the employees and the wearable device thereof.

U.S. Pat. No. 8 712 882 entitled Predictive Time Entry for Workforce Management Systems to Niazi appears to disclose methods and system for predictive approaches used to auto populate timecards for and employee contractor. According to Niazi the systems and methods include a framework that may auto populate timecards for employees using predictive approaches such as by looking at the patterns of time entry for the individual performing an entry of the time and patterns of time entry of other team members within an organization. However the system of Niazi appears to lack any teaching or suggestion of determining the accuracy of the data acquired to automatically and appropriately aggregate data obtained from the wearable device to clock in and or clock out the workers based on one or more conditions of the employees and the wearable device thereof.

For example United States Patent Publication 20080177646 entitled Work Site Remote Monitoring and Employee Time Tracking System and Method to Frink appears to disclose a work site monitoring and employee time tracking system that includes a router for transporting data to and from the work site and a work site IP camera in communication with the router for transporting images from the work site to client computers. According to Frink the system includes a biometric scanner to identify and clock in and clock out work site workers and to transmit identification clock in and clock out data to a server computer. However the system of Frink appears to lack any teaching or suggestion of determining the accuracy of the data acquired to automatically and appropriately aggregate data obtained from the wearable device to clock in and or clock out the workers based on one or more conditions of the employees and the wearable device thereof.

United States Patent Publication 20150095171 entitled Automated Employee Management Techniques to Morgan et al. appears to disclose techniques for automated employee management wherein a clock action for an employee is acquired and analyzed based on rules wherein a decision is made whether to automatically accept the clock action automatically deny the clock action or interactively request approval from a supervisor for the clock action. However the system of Morgan et al. appears to lack any teaching or suggestion of determining the accuracy of the data acquired to automatically and appropriately aggregate data obtained from the wearable device to clock in and or clock out the workers based on one or more conditions of the employees and the wearable device thereof.

In view of the above there is a need for a system and method of workforce management to accurately acquire and process data associated with employees.

Embodiments of the invention generally relate to a system and method of workforce data management. At least one embodiment of the invention includes at least one wearable device with a unique identifier at least one scanner and a database server.

In one or more embodiments the at least one wearable device may be worn on one or more of at least one user and at least one piece of equipment associated with the at least one user. In at least one embodiment the at least one scanner is associated with the at least one wearable device and may be located remote to the to at least one wearable device. In one or more embodiments the at least one scanner may scan a predefined geographical perimeter to locate the at least one wearable device and may bi directionally communicate with the at least one wearable device to collect and record data from each of the at least one wearable device. In at least one embodiment the at least one scanner may include a trust score algorithm. In one or more embodiments of the invention the at least one wearable device may include a low energy wireless beacon device. In at least one embodiment the at least one scanner may include a low energy geo fence scanner that scans a virtual radius defined by the predetermined geographical perimeter.

By way of one or more embodiments the database server may be located remote to the at least one wearable device and to the at least one scanner. In at least one embodiment of the invention the database server bi directionally communicates with the at least one scanner. In one or more embodiments the database server may include a customer account database that includes a plurality of customer accounts associated with the at least one user.

According to at least one embodiment of the invention the at least one scanner may one or more of emit a pre defined radius such as a size controlled pre defined radius to identify an area of interest around the at least one wearable device scan the area of interest to detect the at least one wearable device and transmits outgoing data packets to each of the at least one wearable device to detect the unique identifier of each of the at least one wearable device. In one or more embodiments the at least one scanner may receive incoming data packets from each of the at least one wearable device and process the incoming data packets. In at least one embodiment the at least one scanner may process the incoming data packets by filtering the incoming data packets into a ranking system to qualify accuracy of the incoming data packets associated with the at least one wearable device and after filtering the incoming data packets the at least one scanner may determine whether at least one portion of the incoming data packets include accurate data capture.

In one or more embodiments the at least one scanner may calculate a trust score of the at least one portion of the incoming data packets via the trust score algorithm. By way of at least one embodiment when the at least one portion of the incoming data packets includes accurate data capture the at least one scanner may output a corresponding trust score and transmit the at least one portion of the incoming data packets that includes accurate data capture to the database server. In one or more embodiments when the at least one portion of the incoming data packets includes inaccurate data capture the at least one scanner may output a corresponding trust score and may await further action from the at least one wearable device.

According to at least one embodiment the database server may receive the at least one portion of the incoming data packets that includes accurate data capture and may post the at least one portion of the incoming data packets that includes accurate data capture to a designated customer account of the plurality of customer accounts in the customer account database associated with the at least one user.

In one or more embodiments of the invention the ranking system may include an accuracy score calculator wherein the accuracy score calculator includes a predefined threshold over which the incoming data packets are accurate. In at least one embodiment the at least one scanner may filter the incoming data packets based on the predefined threshold and may output an accuracy score therefrom. In one or more embodiments the accuracy score may include a range of 0 to 100.

By way of at least one embodiment the trust score may be calculated based on one or more trust score conditions. In one or more embodiments the one or more trust score conditions may include an idle time wherein the incoming data packets include an idle time of the at least one wearable device. In at least one embodiment the at least one scanner may vary the trust score based on the idle time of the at least one wearable device. As such in at least one embodiment when the idle time of the at least one wearable device includes an idle time greater than or equal to a predefined idle time the at least one scanner may decrease the trust score by a predefined percentage associated with the predefined idle time.

In one or more embodiments of the invention the one or more trust score conditions may include an overnight idle time wherein the incoming data packets include an overnight idle time of the at least one wearable device. In at least one embodiment the at least one scanner may vary the trust score based on the overnight idle time of the at least one wearable device. As such in at least one embodiment when the overnight idle time of the at least one wearable device includes an overnight idle time greater than a first predefined overnight idle time the at least one scanner may decrease the trust score by a first predetermined percentage. In one or more embodiments when the overnight idle time of the at least one wearable device includes an overnight idle time greater than a second predefined overnight idle time the at least one scanner may decrease the trust score by a second predetermined percentage. In at least one embodiment the second predefined overnight idle time may be less than the first predefined overnight idle time and the second predetermined percentage may be less than the first predetermined percentage. By way of one or more embodiments when the overnight idle time includes an overnight idle time greater than a third predefined overnight idle time the at least one scanner may decrease the trust score by a third predetermined percentage. In at least one embodiment the third predefined overnight idle time may be less than the first predefined overnight idle time and the second predefined overnight idle time and the third predetermined percentage may be less than the first predetermined percentage and the second predetermined percentage.

In one or more embodiments of the invention the one or more trust score conditions may include a signal strength wherein the incoming data packets include a signal strength of the at least one wearable device. In at least one embodiment the at least one scanner may vary the trust score based on the signal strength of the at least one wearable device. As such in one or more embodiments when the signal strength of the at least one wearable device includes a high signal strength the at least one scanner may increase the trust score. In at least one embodiment when the signal strength of the at least one wearable device includes a signal strength greater than or equal to a first predefined strength value the at least one scanner may decrease the trust score by a first predetermined percentage. In one or more embodiments when the signal strength of the at least one wearable device includes a signal strength equal to a second predefined strength value the at least one scanner may decrease the trust score by a second predetermined percentage. In at least one embodiment the second predefined strength value may be less than the first predefined strength value and the second predetermined percentage may be less than the first predetermined percentage.

In one or more embodiments when the signal strength of the at least one wearable device includes a signal strength equal to a third predefined strength value the at least one scanner may decrease the trust score by a third predetermined percentage. In at least one embodiment the third predefined strength value may be less than the first predefined strength value and the second predefined strength value and the third predetermined percentage may be less than the first predetermined percentage and the second predetermined percentage. In one or more embodiments when the signal strength of the at least one wearable device includes a signal strength equal to a fourth predefined strength value the at least one scanner may decrease the trust score by a fourth predetermined percentage. In at least one embodiment the fourth predefined strength value may be less than the first predefined strength value the second predefined strength value and the third predefined strength value and the fourth predetermined percentage may be less than the first predetermined percentage the second predetermined percentage and the third predetermined percentage.

According to one or more embodiments the one or more trust score conditions may include a power disconnect wherein the incoming data packets includes a power disconnect time of the at least one wearable device. In at least one embodiment the at least one scanner varies the trust score based on the power disconnect time of the at least one wearable device. As such in one or more embodiments when the power disconnect time of the at least one wearable device includes a power disconnect time equal to a first predefined disconnect length of time the at least one scanner may decrease the trust score by a first predetermined percentage. In at least one embodiment when the power disconnect time of the at least one wearable device includes a power disconnect time equal to a second predefined disconnect length of time wherein the second predefined disconnect length of time may be less than the first predefined disconnect length of time the at least one scanner may decrease the trust score by a second predetermined percentage. In at least one embodiment the second predetermined percentage may be less than the first predetermined percentage. In one or more embodiments when the power disconnect time of the at least one wearable device includes a power disconnect time equal to a third predefined disconnect length of time wherein the third predefined disconnect length of time may be less than the first predefined disconnect length of time and the second predefined disconnect length of time the at least one scanner may decrease the trust score by a third predetermined percentage. In one or more embodiments the third predetermined percentage may be less than the first predetermined percentage and the second predetermined percentage.

By way of at least one embodiment of the invention the one or more trust score conditions may include buddy punching wherein the buddy punching includes the at least one wearable device arriving within a predefined proximity of another wearable device. In one or more embodiments the incoming data packets may include an average number of buddy punches that include an average number of arrivals between the at least one wearable device and the another wearable device. In at least one embodiment the at least one scanner may vary the trust score based on the average number of arrivals. As such in one or more embodiments when the average number of arrivals includes a number greater than or equal to a first predefined number of arrivals the at least one scanner may decrease the trust score by a first predetermined percentage. In at least one embodiment when the average number of arrivals includes a number equal to a second predefined number of arrivals the at least one scanner may decrease the trust score by a second predetermined percentage. In one or more embodiments the second predefined number of arrivals may be less than the first predefined number of arrivals and the second predetermined percentage may be less than the first predetermined percentage.

In at least one embodiment when the average number of arrivals includes a number equal to a third predefined number of arrivals the at least one scanner may decrease the trust score by a third predetermined percentage. In one or more embodiments the third predefined number of arrivals may be less than the first predefined number of arrivals and the second predefined number of arrivals and the third predetermined percentage may be less than the first predetermined percentage and the second predetermined percentage. In at least one embodiment when the average number of arrivals includes a number equal to a fourth predefined number of arrivals the at least one scanner may decrease the trust score by a fourth predetermined percentage. In one or more embodiments the fourth predefined number of arrivals may be less than the first predefined number of arrivals the second predefined number of arrivals and the third predefined number of arrivals and the fourth predetermined percentage may be less than the first predetermined percentage the second predetermined percentage and the third predetermined percentage.

By way of at least one embodiment of the invention the at least one scanner may include a plurality of scanners. In one or more embodiments each of the plurality of scanners may emit a pre defined radius for example a size controlled pre defined radius to identify a sector of interest around the at least one wearable device. In at least one embodiment the sector of interest may include at least the area of interest such that each of the plurality of scanners may bi directionally communicate with the at least one wearable device. In at least one embodiment each of the plurality of scanners may include a unique identifier.

According to one or more embodiments after the database server receives the at least one portion of the incoming data packets the database server may one or more of automatically approve the incoming data packets receive approval of the incoming data packets from at least one other user and receive approval of the incoming data packets from the at least one user. In at least one embodiment of the invention the database server receives approval of the incoming data packets from one or more of the at least one other user and the at least one user such that the database server may receive input data from the at least one other user the at least one user or both the at least one other user and the at least one user.

The following description is of the best mode presently contemplated for carrying out at least one embodiment of the invention. This description is not to be taken in a limiting sense but is made merely for the purpose of describing the general principles of the invention. The scope of the invention should be determined with reference to the claims.

In one or more embodiments the at least one wearable device may be worn on one or more of at least one user and at least one piece of equipment associated with the at least one user or may be located near at least one user and at least one piece of equipment associated with the at least one user . In one or more embodiments the at least one wearable device may be a deployable device. In at least one embodiment the at least one scanner is associated with the at least one wearable device and may be located remote to the to at least one wearable device . As shown in in one or more embodiments the at least one scanner may scan a predefined geographical perimeter for example perimeter to locate the at least one wearable device and may bi directionally communicate with the at least one wearable device to collect and record data from each of the at least one wearable device . For example in one or more embodiments the data may include one or more of a distance between the at least one wearable device and the at least one scanner and a temperate of the at least one wearable device . By way of at least one embodiment within the perimeter the at least one user may include at least one second or other user and the at least one wearable device may include at least one other wearable device that may be worn on one or more of the at least one other user and or at least one piece of equipment associated with the at least one other user . In one or more embodiments the perimeter may include one of more buildings such as one or more of a school university city company campus museum exhibit restaurant event space arena shopping mall convention center zoo casino and any other public or private environment.

In at least one embodiment the at least one wearable device is associated with the at least one scanner such that the at least one scanner is switched from an idle or inactive state to an active state upon scanning the at least one wearable device .

In one or more embodiments the at least one scanner may be located within an enclosed indoor workforce environment and or within an open perimeter outdoor environment. In at least one embodiment the at least one scanner may include a trust score algorithm. In one or more embodiments of the invention the at least one wearable device may include a low energy beacon device. For example in at least one embodiment the at least one wearable device may include Bluetooth enabled device such as a Bluetooth low energy device BLE that may scan a perimeter receive incoming data and transmit outgoing data. In at least one embodiment the at least one wearable device may include a power source such as a battery including a lithium coin battery. In one or more embodiments the at least one wearable device may include or be associated with an Ethernet port a WiFi adapter and may include an enclosure case. In at least one embodiment the at least one wearable device may scan receive and transmit data using one or more of a WiFi connection a cellular connection such as using 3G and 4G capabilities and an Ethernet cable. For example in one or more embodiments the at least one wearable device may include one or more of Apple s iBeacon a Gimbal iBeacon and other types of wireless beacons and may operate in temperatures ranging from at least 10 F. to at least 100 F.

In at least one embodiment the at least one scanner may include a low energy geo fence scanner that scans a virtual radius defined by the predetermined geographical perimeter . For example in at least one embodiment the at least one scanner may include a Bluetooth low energy device BLE or a near field communication NFC device that may scan a perimeter receive incoming data and transmit outgoing data. In at least one embodiment the at least one scanner may include a 900 MHz quad core ARM Cortex A7 computer processor. In one or more embodiments the at least one scanner may include one or more of 1 GB random access memory RAM at least one universal serial bus USB port such as 4 USB ports a plurality of general purpose input output GPIO pins such as 40 GPIO pins a full high definition multimedia interface HDMI port and an Ethernet port. In at least one embodiment the at least one scanner may include an audio jack such as a 3.5 mm audio jack a composite video transmission channel a camera serial interface CSI a display serial interface DSI a micro secure digital SD card slot and a low power multimedia processor such as a VideoCore IV three dimensional 3D graphics core.

In one or more embodiments the at least one scanner may include or be associated with an Ethernet port a WiFi adapter and may include an enclosure case. In at least one embodiment the at least one scanner may scan receive and transmit data using one or more of a WiFi connection a cellular connection such as using 3G and 4G capabilities and an Ethernet cable. According to one or more embodiments one or more of the enclosure case of the at least one wearable device and the at least one scanner may be weatherproof.

By way of at least one embodiment of the invention the at least one scanner may include a plurality of scanners. In one or more embodiments each of the plurality of scanners may emit a pre defined radius such as a size controlled pre defined radius to identify a sector of interest around the at least one wearable device . In at least one embodiment the sector of interest may include at least the area of interest such that each of the plurality of scanners may bi directionally communicate with the at least one wearable device . In at least one embodiment each of the plurality of scanners may include a unique identifier. In one or more embodiments each of the at least one scanner identifies a sector of interest or geo fence area such that each of at least one scanner includes a user identified string describing the geo fence area associated with the corresponding scanner of the at least one scanner . In one or more embodiments a combination of each sector of interest enables organization and control of a large physical space by breaking down the large physical space into various sections scanned by the at least one scanner . In at least one embodiment the plurality of scanners enable a Bluetooth network such as a mesh network wherein each node from each scanner of the plurality of scanners relays data within a network defined by the plurality of scanners.

By way of one or more embodiments the database server may be located remote to the at least one wearable device and to the at least one scanner . In at least one embodiment of the invention the database server bi directionally communicates with the at least one scanner and with one or more of the at least one wearable device and the at least one user and or the at least one other user . In one or more embodiments the database server may include a customer account database that includes a plurality of customer accounts associated with the at least one user and or the at least one other user . In one or more embodiments the database server may include a computer with both hardware and software components including a database a server associated with the database and an application programming interface API such as a workforce data management software and or a centralized for example cloud based web application to receive process allocate and transmit data packets. In at least one embodiment of the invention the API may include the customer account database that includes the plurality of customer accounts . According to one or more embodiments of the invention one or more of the API and the centralized web application may perform functions of the database server discussed herein.

In one or more embodiments at the at least one scanner may calculate a trust score of the at least one portion of the incoming data packets via the trust score algorithm. By way of at least one embodiment when the at least one portion of the incoming data packets includes accurate data capture based on the at least one scanner may output a corresponding trust score and transmit the at least one portion of the incoming data packets that includes accurate data capture to the database server at . In one or more embodiments when the at least one portion of the incoming data packets includes inaccurate data capture at the at least one scanner may output a corresponding trust score and may await further action from the at least one wearable device . At in one or more embodiments the at least one scanner may keep the at least one portion of the incoming data packets that includes inaccurate data capture in a local for example designated and partitioned database in the at least one scanner .

In one or more embodiments of the invention the ranking system may include an accuracy score calculator wherein the accuracy score calculator includes a predefined threshold over which the incoming data packets are accurate. In at least one embodiment the at least one scanner may filter the incoming data packets based on the predefined threshold and may output an accuracy score therefrom. In one or more embodiments the accuracy score may be human readable and may include a range of 0 to 100.

By way of one or more embodiments the at least one scanner may be placed within perimeter at a predefined location wherein the predefined location may be automatically remotely and wirelessly determined via a scanner placement algorithm within the database server . For example in at least one embodiment the scanner placement algorithm algorithm may determine the predefined location of the at least one scanner based on one or more schematics or floor plans of the perimeter . One or more embodiments may include at least one portable scanner that may one or more of scan perimeter to automatically determine a floor plan of the perimeter determine an optimal location of the at least one scanner based on one or more of the determined floor plan size of the perimeter obstructions within the perimeter and restrictions within the perimeter and transmit the floor plan and the optimal location to the database server . In at least one embodiment the at least one portable scanner may include a camera such as a mobile phone camera. In one or more embodiments a quality of the scan from the at least one portable scanner may be monitored and managed by the trust score algorithm. For example in one or more embodiments a user may use the at least one portable scanner to scan the perimeter such that the user may be prompted by the database server to submit the scan as a file to the API for example. Once the API received the scan in at least one embodiment the file may be uploaded and translated using the scanner placement algorithm wherein the scanner placement algorithm outlines the optimal location of where the at least one scanner may be placed.

In one or more embodiments the database server may receive and save the floor plans and optimal locations as digital files. In at least one embodiment the location algorithm may use virtual floor plans and area diagrams and may determine the predefined location of the at least one scanner based on customer pricing and collection preferences as collected from a customer and or based on one or more of a type of scanner coordinates of the perimeter and any other factors associated with perimeter and assets thereof. In at least one embodiment the customer may include one or more of the at least one user the at least one other user a supervisor or authoritative figure of the perimeter and a government agency.

In one or more embodiments the at least one scanner may select a connection type at from one or more of an Ethernet connection a cellular connection such as 3G 4G and a WiFi connection . In one or more embodiments the at least one scanner may scan a perimeter such as perimeter for at least one wearable device such as at process the incoming data received from the at least one wearable device at calculate a trust score of the incoming data received at and determine accurate data capture of the incoming data received at .

As such in one or more embodiments the at least one scanner may transmit outgoing data packets to each of the at least one wearable device such as to detect the unique identifier of each of the at least one wearable device and receive incoming data packets from each of the at least one wearable device . In one or more embodiments the at least one scanner may scan the perimeter or a portion thereof for a customer specific time interval such as a customer specific interval associated with the at least one user . In at least one embodiment the results of the scan from the at least one scanner may be averaged to include accurate distance results between the at least one scanner and the at least one wearable device . In one or more embodiments the results may be saved on the at least one scanner and or may be uploaded to the database server once a connection between the at least one scanner and the database server is established or reestablished. In at least one embodiment the at least one scanner determines if the at least one wearable device is capable of being scanned at . In one or more embodiments if the at least one scanner is unable to scan the at least one wearable device to detect the unique identifier such as from a failed scan the at least one scanner may send or transmit an error signal such as an error message to the database server and may temporarily or permanently keep the failed scan in a local database in the at least one scanner at . In one or more embodiments the at least one scanner may scan for at least one wearable device with an account collection interval associated with the at least one wearable device as determined by the database server at . In at least one embodiment the at least one scanner may average results of the scan for an account collection interval and upload the results to the database server at an upload interval as predetermined by the database server at .

In at least one embodiment of the invention one or more of the at least one scanner and the database server may one or more of scan the at least one wearable device and assign each of the at least one wearable device to a dedicated universally unique identifier UUID to enable one or more of the at least one scanner and the database server to scan the at least one wearable device via the corresponding assigned dedicated UUID. In one or more embodiments the at least one scanner may generate a representational slate transfer REST hypertext transfer protocol HTTP POST to the database server such as the API with a list including one or more of the UUIDs distance major wearable devices minor wearable devices and a timestamp of each of the at least one wearable device .

According to at least one embodiment of the invention the at least one scanner may remotely assign a dedicated customer account of each of the at least one wearable device in the customer account database by generating a REST HTTP POST to the database server and handling a specific token type such as an open standard authorization OAuth bearer token the data server returns. As such in at least one embodiment the at least one wearable device may be authenticated by the database server authorizing access to the at least one wearable device and the at least one scanner from the database server . In one or more embodiments the database server may generate a REST HTTP POST with authorization set to Bearer for example an OAuth token in HTTP headers.

By way of at least one embodiment one or more of the database server and the at least one scanner may set a distance range and power capabilities of each of the at least one wearable device such as . In one or more embodiments the at least one scanner may transmit error messages to the database server for example using a REST HTTP POST. In at least one embodiment of the invention the at least one scanner may maintain the connection between one or more of the at least one wearable device and the database server such as the WiFi connection and the cellular connection for long periods of time with automatic recovery. In one or more embodiments when a signal connection of the WiFi and or cellular connection is inactive the at least one scanner may queue data until the signal connection is recovered.

In one or more embodiments the one or more trust score conditions may include an idle time wherein the incoming data packets include an idle time of the at least one wearable device . In at least one embodiment the at least one scanner may vary the trust score based on the idle time of the at least one wearable device . As such in at least one embodiment when the idle time of the at least one wearable device includes an idle time greater than or equal to a predefined idle time the at least one scanner may decrease the trust score by a predefined percentage associated with the predefined idle time. For example as shown in at the predefined idle time may include two hours such that the at least one scanner may decrease the trust score by a predefined percentage of 25 .

In one or more embodiments of the invention the one or more trust score conditions may include an overnight idle time wherein the incoming data packets include an idle time during overnight hours or hours after a set pre defined hours of the at least one wearable device . In at least one embodiment the at least one scanner may vary the trust score based on the overnight idle time of the at least one wearable device . As such in at least one embodiment when the overnight idle time of the at least one wearable device includes an overnight idle time greater than a first predefined overnight idle time the at least one scanner may decrease the trust score by a first predetermined percentage. For example as shown in at the predefined overnight idle time may include an overnight idle time greater than a first predefined overnight idle time of 22 hours such that the at least one scanner may decrease the trust score by a first predefined percentage of 100 outputting an accuracy trust score of 0.

In one or more embodiments when the overnight idle time of the at least one wearable device includes an overnight idle time greater than a second predefined overnight idle time the at least one scanner may decrease the trust score by a second predetermined percentage. In at least one embodiment the second predefined overnight idle time may be less than the first predefined overnight idle time and the second predetermined percentage may be less than the first predetermined percentage. For example as shown in at the predefined overnight idle time may include an overnight idle time greater than a second predefined overnight idle time of 16 hours such that the at least one scanner may decrease the trust score by a second predefined percentage of 75 resulting in a higher accuracy trust score than the corresponding trust score of the first predefined percentage.

By way of one or more embodiments when the overnight idle time includes an overnight idle time greater than a third predefined overnight idle time the at least one scanner may decrease the trust score by a third predetermined percentage. In at least one embodiment the third predefined overnight idle time may be less than the first predefined overnight idle time and the second predefined overnight idle time and the third predetermined percentage may be less than the first predetermined percentage and the second predetermined percentage. For example as shown in at the predefined overnight idle time may include an overnight idle time greater than a third predefined overnight idle time of 12 hours such that the at least one scanner may decrease the trust score by a third predefined percentage of 25 resulting in a higher accuracy trust score than the corresponding trust scores of the first predefined percentage and the second predefined percentage.

In one or more embodiments of the invention the one or more trust score conditions may include a signal strength wherein the incoming data packets include a signal strength of the at least one wearable device . For example the signal strength may be associated with a weak signal. In at least one embodiment the at least one scanner may vary the trust score based on the signal strength of the at least one wearable device . As such in one or more embodiments when the signal strength of the at least one wearable device includes a high signal strength the at least one scanner may increase the trust score. For example when the signal strength of the at least one wearable device includes a high signal strength associated with zero signal disconnections the at least one scanner may increase the trust score.

In at least one embodiment when the signal strength of the at least one wearable device includes a signal strength greater than or equal to a first predefined strength value the at least one scanner may decrease the trust score by a first predetermined percentage. For example as shown in at the signal strength may include a signal strength greater than or equal to a first predefined strength value associated with four signal disconnections such that the at least one scanner may decrease the trust score by a first predetermined percentage of 100 outputting an accuracy trust score of 0.

In one or more embodiments when the signal strength of the at least one wearable device includes a signal strength equal to a second predefined strength value the at least one scanner may decrease the trust score by a second predetermined percentage. In at least one embodiment the second predefined strength value may be less than the first predefined strength value and the second predetermined percentage may be less than the first predetermined percentage. For example as shown in at when the signal strength of the at least one wearable device includes a signal strength equal to a second predefined strength value associated with three signal disconnections the at least one scanner may decrease the trust score by a second predetermined percentage of 75 resulting in a higher accuracy trust score than the corresponding trust score of the first predetermined percentage.

In one or more embodiments when the signal strength of the at least one wearable device includes a signal strength equal to a third predefined strength value the at least one scanner may decrease the trust score by a third predetermined percentage. In at least one embodiment the third predefined strength value may be less than the first predefined strength value and the second predefined strength value and the third predetermined percentage may be less than the first predetermined percentage and the second predetermined percentage. For example as shown in at when the signal strength of the at least one wearable device includes a signal strength equal to a third predefined strength value associated with two signal disconnections the at least one scanner may decrease the trust score by a third predetermined percentage of 50 resulting in a higher accuracy trust score than the corresponding trust scores of the first predetermined percentage and the second predetermined percentage.

In one or more embodiments when the signal strength of the at least one wearable device includes a signal strength equal to a fourth predefined strength value the at least one scanner may decrease the trust score by a fourth predetermined percentage. In at least one embodiment the fourth predefined strength value may be less than the first predefined strength value the second predefined strength value and the third predefined strength value and the fourth predetermined percentage may be less than the first predetermined percentage the second predetermined percentage and the third predetermined percentage. For example as shown in at when the signal strength of the at least one wearable device includes a signal strength equal to a fourth predefined strength value associated with one signal disconnection the at least one scanner may decrease the trust score by a fourth predetermined percentage of 25 resulting in a higher accuracy trust score than the corresponding trust scores of the first predetermined percentage the second predetermined percentage and the third predetermined percentage.

For example in one or more embodiments if the at least one user wearing the at least one wearable device is located within perimeter and the signal strength is weak the at least one scanner may display trust score number affected by the weak signal. For example in at least one embodiment the predefined threshold over which the incoming data packets are accurate may include a pre defined trust score for example 25 such that if the incoming data packets collected and processed output an accuracy trust score of below the pre defined trust score for example 20 the collected incoming data packets may not automatically post to the designated customer account database but may remain kept in a designated local database within the at least one scanner as a record. Therefrom in one or more embodiments the at least one scanner may notify at least one user such as an assigned account administration associated with the customer account database to address the collected and kept incoming data packets that were not automatically transmitted. As such in at least one embodiment the at least one other user may address the notification to edit the data change the data input additional data or transmit the data to another user or processor for further processing.

According to one or more embodiments the one or more trust score conditions may include a power disconnect wherein the incoming data packets includes a power disconnect time of the at least one wearable device . In at least one embodiment the at least one scanner may vary the trust score based on the power disconnect time of the at least one wearable device . As such in one or more embodiments when the power disconnect time of the at least one wearable device includes a power disconnect time equal to a first predefined disconnect length of time the at least one scanner may decrease the trust score by a first predetermined percentage. For example as shown in at when the power disconnect time of the at least one wearable device includes a power disconnect time equal to a first predefined disconnect length of time of 15 minutes the at least one scanner may decrease the trust score by a first predetermined percentage of 100 outputting an accuracy trust score of 0.

In at least one embodiment when the power disconnect time of the at least one wearable device includes a power disconnect time equal to a second predefined disconnect length of time wherein the second predefined disconnect length of time may be less than the first predefined disconnect length of time the at least one scanner may decrease the trust score by a second predetermined percentage. In at least one embodiment the second predetermined percentage may be less than the first predetermined percentage. For example as shown in at when the power disconnect time of the at least one wearable device includes a power disconnect time equal to a second predefined disconnect length of time of 10 minutes the at least one scanner may decrease the trust score by a second predetermined percentage of 75 resulting in a higher accuracy trust score than the corresponding trust score of the first predetermined percentage.

In one or more embodiments when the power disconnect time of the at least one wearable device includes a power disconnect time equal to a third predefined disconnect length of time wherein the third predefined disconnect length of time may be less than the first predefined disconnect length of time and the second predefined disconnect length of time the at least one scanner may decrease the trust score by a third predetermined percentage. In one or more embodiments the third predetermined percentage may be less than the first predetermined percentage and the second predetermined percentage. For example as shown in at when the power disconnect time of the at least one wearable device includes a power disconnect time equal to a third predefined disconnect length of time of 5 minutes the at least one scanner may decrease the trust score by a third predetermined percentage of 25 resulting in a higher accuracy trust score than the corresponding trust scores of the first predetermined percentage and the second predetermined percentage.

By way of at least one embodiment of the invention the one or more trust score conditions may include buddy punching wherein the buddy punching includes the at least one wearable device arriving within a predefined proximity of another wearable device such as another wearable device of the at least one other user . In one or more embodiments the incoming data packets may include an average number of buddy punches that include an average number of arrivals between the at least one wearable device and the another wearable device . In at least one embodiment the at least one scanner may vary the trust score based on the average number of arrivals. As such in one or more embodiments when the average number of arrivals includes a number greater than or equal to a first predefined number of arrivals the at least one scanner may decrease the trust score by a first predetermined percentage. For example as shown in at when the average number of arrivals includes a number greater than or equal to a first predefined number of arrivals of four the at least one scanner may decrease the trust score by a first predetermined percentage of 50 .

In at least one embodiment when the average number of arrivals includes a number equal to a second predefined number of arrivals the at least one scanner may decrease the trust score by a second predetermined percentage. In one or more embodiments the second predefined number of arrivals may be less than the first predefined number of arrivals and the second predetermined percentage may be less than the first predetermined percentage. For example as shown in at when the average number of arrivals includes a number equal to a second predefined number of arrivals of three the at least one scanner may decrease the trust score by a second predetermined percentage of 40 resulting in a higher accuracy trust score than the corresponding trust score of the first predetermined percentage.

In at least one embodiment when the average number of arrivals includes a number equal to a third predefined number of arrivals the at least one scanner may decrease the trust score by a third predetermined percentage. In one or more embodiments the third predefined number of arrivals may be less than the first predefined number of arrivals and the second predefined number of arrivals and the third predetermined percentage may be less than the first predetermined percentage and the second predetermined percentage. For example as shown in at when the average number of arrivals includes a number equal to a third predefined number of arrivals of two the at least one scanner may decrease the trust score by a third predetermined percentage of 30 resulting in a higher accuracy trust score than the corresponding trust scores of the first predetermined percentage and the second predetermined percentage.

In at least one embodiment when the average number of arrivals includes a number equal to a fourth predefined number of arrivals the at least one scanner may decrease the trust score by a fourth predetermined percentage. In one or more embodiments the fourth predefined number of arrivals may be less than the first predefined number of arrivals the second predefined number of arrivals and the third predefined number of arrivals and the fourth predetermined percentage may be less than the first predetermined percentage the second predetermined percentage and the third predetermined percentage. For example as shown in at when the average number of arrivals includes a number equal to a fourth predefined number of arrivals of one the at least one scanner may decrease the trust score by a fourth predetermined percentage of 20 resulting in a higher accuracy trust score than the corresponding trust scores of the first predetermined percentage the second predetermined percentage and the third predetermined percentage.

By way of one or more embodiments the one or more trust score conditions and the predefined percentages to vary the trust score may be pre customized pre determined and set by one or more of the at least one user and the at least one other user . As such in at least one embodiment the one or more trust score conditions and the predefined percentages to vary the trust score may include predefined variations associated with the at least one user and the at least one other user and or predefined patterns that may be ignored. In at least one embodiment of the invention the trust score algorithm may use default metrics to calculate the trust scores of each incoming data packet corresponding to one or more of the at least one user the one or more equipment associated with the at least one user and any assets within perimeter . In one or more embodiments the metrics and the one or more trust score conditions may be altered added or deleted by the at least one user and or the at least one other user . In at least one embodiment the results of the trust score algorithm and the variations of the trust scores as discussed above may be transmitted to the database server and may include meta information that include data describing why the trust score was increased or lowered.

In one or more embodiments after approving the incoming data packets the database server may post the at least one portion of the incoming data packets at that include accurate data capture to a designated customer account of the plurality of customer accounts in the customer account database associated with one or more of the at least one user and the at least one user other user .

One or more embodiments of the workforce data management system and method may include one or more of workforce time management expense management scheduling management budget management and safety solutions management. In one or more embodiments workforce time management may enable control of environments within a geographic such as a virtual fence polygon perimeter s with designated unique time collection of activities performed at a level of the at least one user and or the at least one other user via the at least one scanner and or the database server . In at least one embodiment workforce time management may enable unique polygon perimeter identification to engage in account administration associated with the location or movement of the at least one user and or the at least one other user via the at least one scanner and or the database server . In one or more embodiments expense management may include geographic location coordinates that are transmitted and uploaded to a centralized for example cloud based web application of purchases conducted within the geo fence polygon perimeter s such as perimeter via the at least one scanner and or the database server .

In at least one embodiment schedule management may enable automatic generation of user schedules such as of the at least one user and or the at least one other user via one or more of the database server and the API. In one or more embodiments the schedules may be based on a mean or median value of time and activity recorded from within the geo fence polygon perimeter s such as perimeter associated with the at least one user and or the at least one other user and any tasks associated with the at least one user and or the at least one other user . In at least one embodiment the schedules may be transmitted to the centralized for example cloud based web application. In one or more embodiments budget management may include automatic generation of budget forecasting via one or more of the database server the API and the centralized web application based on time and activity recorded and collected from within the geo fence polygon perimeter s such as perimeter via the at least one scanner . In at least one embodiment safety solutions management may include safety monitoring of the at least one wearable device . For example in at least one embodiment the at least one wearable device may be monitored to detect a state of the at least one wearable device such as an active state or in active state to enable real time notifications of the status of and or errors associated with the at least one wearable device via the at least one scanner . In one or more embodiments the notifications may include one or more of a short message service SMS notification a smart message notification a multimedia messaging service MMS notification and an e mail notification directed at a remote user or database to enable monitoring diagnosis and repair of the status and or errors.

One or more embodiments of the workforce data management system and method may include one or more of security management analytics management home management education management and navigation management. In at least one embodiment security management may include asset management and access control of equipment directly or indirectly associated with one or more of the at least one user the at least one other user the perimeter and equipment thereof. In one or more embodiments asset management may include determination of pinpoint geographic location of assets in real time associated with one or more of the at least one user the at least one other user the perimeter and equipment thereof via the at least one scanner . In at least one embodiment asset management may include detection of movement of the assets within the geo fence polygon perimeter s such as perimeter . As such in one or more embodiments the at least one scanner may monitor equipment within the geo fence polygon perimeter s such as perimeter . For example in at least one embodiment the at least one scanner may monitor equipment within a job site or work place. Via the at least one scanner and data server at least one embodiment may include management of freights on site within the geo fence polygon perimeter s such as perimeter for example to management import and export of equipment at port locations airport locations and any other equipment transfer locations.

In one or more embodiments access control management may include access of control systems via the at least one wearable device . For example in at least one embodiment the at least one wearable device may enable hands free entry access or doors and perimeters for example using a multi functional keychain wearable device. In one or more embodiments the database server may centralize designate and pre define access control functions of the at least one wearable device . In at least one embodiment the database server may assign granted access to a single or a plurality of designated scanners of the at least one scanner in multiple sectors of the perimeter . In one or more embodiments access control management may include accessing smart functions within the perimeter including one or more of climate control windows and any Bluetooth or wireless enabled device via one or more of the at least one scanner and the database server .

By way of at least one embodiment analytics management may include heavy data collection of data packets from the at least one wearable device throughout the perimeter . As such one or more embodiments may include a custom reporting engine for example part of database server that collects data based on deployment of the at least one wearable device and generate reports therefrom to allow users to collect historical data of the at least one user the at least one other user perimeter and equipment thereof to forecast trending and future events. In at least one embodiment of the invention forecasting trending and future events may be associated with one or more of tradeshows exhibitions private sector workforce government programs healthcare manufacturing media etc.

In one or more embodiments home management may include generation of smart zones that enable centralized multiple Bluetooth and or wireless functions within a perimeter such as perimeter including the at least one wearable device and the at least one scanner . In at least one embodiment a smart zone within a home environment enables users such as users within a perimeter of a house such as perimeter to trigger any Bluetooth or wireless enabled device such as the at least one wearable device to remotely operate one or more Bluetooth enabled equipment located within the perimeter. For example in one or more embodiments a user such as the at least one user may move within a predetermined sector within perimeter such as a kitchen location at a predefined time of day which may trigger a Bluetooth enabled piece of equipment such as a coffee maker to turn on. For example in one or more embodiments the at least one user may move in a predefined posture for a predetermined period of time within a second predetermined sector within perimeter such as in an upright posture in bed within a predefined room of the house which may trigger a Bluetooth enabled piece of equipment such as Bluetooth enabled blinds of a window to one or more of open or close depending on the predefined time of day.

In one or more embodiments education management may include generation of smart zones that enable educators managers and other authoritative personnel to create an interactive learning environment in one or more of public and private sectors through custom triggers. For example in at least one embodiment a smart zone within a school environment enables users to approach at least one deployed device within a pre defined space such as perimeter such that Bluetooth or wireless enabled equipment or devices within the perimeter recognize the nearby at least one deployed device triggering controlled information to be accessed and uploaded from the at least one deployed device to the Bluetooth or wireless enabled equipment or devices within the perimeter . In at least one embodiment of the invention the at least one wearable and or deployable device may be used to transmit data to nearby Bluetooth or wireless enabled equipment or devices to promote real time messaging on local proximity. For example the transmitted data may include breaking news tourism or any other information associated with the local proximity within the perimeter . For example in one or more embodiments a smart zone within a business environment enables users to internally and in real time transmit information for example of project or task information from one Bluetooth or wireless enabled equipment or device to another Bluetooth or wireless enabled equipment or device using the at least one wearable and or deployable device such as a beacon.

In at least one embodiment of the invention navigation management may include via one or more of the at least one beacon the at least one scanner and the database server an indoor positioning system IPS to manage traffic of large physical space using an indoor navigation feature. For example in at least one embodiment the indoor positioning system may include step by step navigation that coordinates routes within the geo fence polygon perimeter such as perimeter . In one or more embodiments navigation data may maintain accuracy via the at least one scanner and the trust score algorithm. For example in at least one embodiment when an accuracy trust score drops below a required accuracy threshold the database server may refresh one or more of the at least one beacon the at least one scanner the indoor positioning system IPS and data associated therewith.

It will be apparent to those skilled in the art that numerous modifications and variations of the described examples and embodiments are possible in light of the above teaching. The disclosed examples and embodiments are presented for purposes of illustration only. Other alternate embodiments may include some or all of the features disclosed herein. Therefore it is the intent to cover all such modifications and alternate embodiments as may come within the true scope of this invention.

