---

title: System and method for media presentation with dynamic secondary content
abstract: A method for presenting media with dynamic content to a first user includes obtaining information related to a current playback position on a playback timeline being presented to the first user, obtaining secondary content related to the media and associated with a second user, wherein the first user and second user are associated according to a third party database, storing the obtained secondary content in a memory, and generating and transmitting instructions for displaying a first indicator of the secondary content at a first position on the playback timeline to the first user, wherein the first position corresponds to a first timestamp associated with the secondary content.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09369768&OS=09369768&RS=09369768
owner: 
number: 09369768
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20150302
---
With the advancement of communication networks and media compression technologies content providers have been provided with the ability to stream media content to end users via communication networks such as the Internet. By streaming media content directly to home entertainment systems or personal and portable devices end users are also provided with an extremely quick and convenient mode for consuming media content by browsing and selecting from vast collections which are immediately available.

In addition to convenience streaming media content provides a content provider with the ability to detect track and record the viewing history and habits of end users. However while the connected nature of streaming media allows content providers to collect such viewing data for a significant number of end users this collected data provides no enhanced viewing experience for the end user other than simply showing a viewing history or where the end user previously left off. Additionally while a significant number of end users may be connected to the content provider during the streaming process the end users themselves are provided with no mode of connecting with each other even where two end users are watching the same content at the same time.

The ability for a content provider to detect collect store and distribute information related to end users viewing of a particular media content when the same media content is viewed by a particular end user may be advantageous to provide an enhanced viewing experience. Thus there is a great need for a solution to effectively present media content with dynamic secondary content which may be relevant to the end user.

Embodiments of the present disclosure may include providing media content for consumption by an end user along with a presentation of dynamic secondary content which may be relevant to the end user. The dynamic secondary content may include content from social media applications where the content is associated with other users and related to the media content being presented. In some embodiments the secondary content may be generated by the other users and the secondary content may be generated simultaneously with the end user s consumption of the media content or it may be generated time independent from the end user s consumption. In some embodiments only secondary content associated with another user that is connected to the end user via the social media application is presented to the end user.

Embodiments of the present disclosure include providing the media for display to a first user providing information for displaying a current playback position on a playback timeline to the first user obtaining secondary content related to the media and associated with a second user wherein the first user and second user are associated according to a third party database storing the obtained secondary content in a memory and generating and transmitting instructions for displaying a first indicator of the secondary content at a first position on the playback timeline to the first user wherein the first position corresponds to a first timestamp associated with the secondary content.

Embodiments of the present disclosure also include receiving a selection input selecting the displayed first indicator and generating and transmitting instructions for displaying the secondary content associated with the displayed first indicator.

Embodiments of the present disclosure also include obtaining additional secondary content related to the media and associated with a third user wherein the first user and third user are associated according to the third party database storing the additional secondary content in a memory and generating and transmitting instructions for increasing a size of the first indicator when a difference between the first timestamp and a second timestamp associated with the additional secondary content is less than or equal to a threshold length of time.

In the following detailed description reference is made to the accompanying drawing figures which form a part hereof and which show by way of illustration specific embodiments of the present invention. It is to be understood by those of ordinary skill in this technological field that other embodiments may be utilized and that structural electrical as well as procedural changes may be made without departing from the scope of the present invention. Wherever possible the same reference numbers will be used throughout the drawings to refer to the same or similar parts.

Embodiments of the present invention relate to a system and method for presenting media content with related and dynamic secondary content.

Referring now to an example of a networked system according to an embodiment of the present invention is depicted. The system may include a content presentation system connected to a content distribution system . The content distribution system may include various systems for distribution of content including over the air cable internet other network connection systems and the like which implement networks and hardware known and used in the related art including broadcast technologies cable or satellite content distribution systems internet protocol IP LAN or other networked technologies and the like wherein examples of the distributed content include live and recorded television movies online content music radio or other audio visual content and the like. The content presentation system may be connected to the content distribution system via a network such as the internet may receive content wirelessly via satellite transmission broadcast or the like or may be connected for example via cable to a content provider or cable head end of a multiple system operator.

In some embodiments the content presentation system is configured to receive information of media content and provide said media content to a content receiver for consumption by an end user . In other embodiments the content receiver receives the media content directly from the content distribution system for consumption by the end user . In these embodiments the media content may be distributed to the content receiver from the content distribution system via the same various systems for distribution of content as discussed above with respect to the content presentation system . The content presentation system and the content distribution system may communicate information regarding the media content being provided to content receiver in order to synchronize the presentation of all content to the user . For example where media content is provided to the content receiver by the content distribution system the content distribution system may provide the content presentation system with information such as a timecode reference indicating a current timecode position of the media content being presented. The content presentation system may accordingly be configured to receive the timecode reference signals and coordinate presentation of secondary content discussed further below based on the timecode reference signals.

The content receiver otherwise referred to as a client may include various hardware and systems for receiving and presenting media content including televisions television receivers set top boxes internet content receivers desktop computers laptop computers tablet computers smartphones additional media consumption devices and the like. The content receiver may be configured to execute various applications such as a browser and the like. The browser may be executed in a client for example to access and render network pages such as web pages or other content provided by the content presentation system and or other servers in which a content receiving user interface may be rendered. The client may be configured to execute applications beyond a browser such as for example email applications messaging applications social media applications and the like. Accordingly in some embodiments a user can manipulate a user interface presented in the form of network pages shown in a display device via the browser or other application that causes interaction with the content presentation system or other aspects of the networked system .

In other contemplated embodiments not depicted the media content may be obtained from a local source such as a physical storage medium for example including DVD s Bluray discs CD s hard drives integrated flash memory removable flash memory and the like. The client may be configured to reproduce the media content read from such storage medium via a media playback application or program while being connected to the content presentation system . The client may transmit information to the content presentation system such as an identifier of the media content being reproduced at the client from the local storage medium. While not depicted in one of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that the same functionality of various embodiments as discussed herein are contemplated with respect to this configuration.

Referring back to the content presentation system may be connected to the content receiver via any of the communication systems and networks previously discussed with respect to the content distribution system . It should also be appreciated that embodiments of the disclosure can be implemented in various ways. The networked environment shown in includes a client or content receiver in communication with the content presentation system and optionally with the content distribution system and the content receiver may be connected via a network not depicted . The network includes for example the internet intranets extranets wide area networks WANs local area networks LANs wired networks wireless networks or other suitable networks and the like or any combination of two or more such networks.

The content presentation system may comprise for example a server computer or any other system providing computing capability. Alternatively a plurality of computing devices may be employed that are arranged for example in one or more server banks or computer banks or other arrangements. For example a plurality of content presentation systems together may comprise a cloud computing resource a grid computing resource and or any other distributed computing arrangement. Such content presentation systems may be located in a single installation or may be distributed among many different geographical locations. For purposes of convenience the content presentation system is referred to herein in the singular. Even though the content presentation system is referred to in the singular it is understood that a plurality of content presentation systems may be employed in the various arrangements as described above.

Also the content presentation system may include at least one data store which may comprise data and applications operable to provide access to the data store stored therein. It should be appreciated that the data store may or may not reside within a computing device of the content presentation system but may be accessible via a network. The data store can include user data which can store information about users of the content receiver or the system. User data can include for example a user profile including demographic information about a user address telephone number payment information email address viewing or purchasing history browsing history affiliation information and other data related to users. User data may also include information from one or more third party systems with which the user is associated for example social media application frameworks. In one embodiment a user of the content presentation system may link one or more third party social media application accounts with an account of the user stored at the content presentation system which can allow the content receiver to access content associated with the user from the social media application framework as well as publish information to the social media application framework as will be discussed further herein.

In addition to providing media content the content presentation system may be configured to provide the content receiver with information related to the media content including programming information guide information channel information content metadata information and the like. Specifically the content presentation system may provide information to enable the content receiver to present a user interface including information regarding the media content programming materials related to the media content and the like. Accordingly the content receiver may be configured to receive such interface information and present a user interface to the user on a display such as a television display computer display tablet computer display smartphone display and the like. In some embodiments the interface information may be provided to the content receiver in a standard format such that any content receiver is capable of receiving and presenting the interface information.

For example the interface information may be provided in HTML format such that the content receiver may receive and present the interface via an HTML enabled program or application such as a web browser. In other embodiments the content receiver may be configured to receive the interface information and present the interface in a specific manner according to an interface format preprogrammed at the content receiver . For example the interface information may be provided by the content presentation system in a data format without interface formatting defined such as an XML format. Those of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that these examples are not limiting and that various configurations and implementations are available and considered by this disclosure.

The interface displayed to the user may enable the user to select certain available programming play media content pause media content record media content schedule recording of media content and the like. The interface may be configured to receive inputs from the user via an input device such as a remote control keyboard mouse touchscreen and the like or connected devices such as smartphones tablet computers laptop computers and the like to perform functions of the interface. The connected devices may be connected via a wired connection or connected via wireless connection such as WiFi Bluetooth near field communication NFC and the like. Additionally the interface presented by the content receiver may be configured to allow the user to view materials and content related to the media content referred to herein as secondary content. The secondary content may include additional audio video images or text content related to the media content being viewed by the user such as behind the scenes clips director commentary captioning alternate languages deleted scenes alternate scenes character information actor biography information and the like.

In some embodiments the secondary content may be provided by the content distribution system along with the media content. In such configurations the system may include secondary content databases within the content distribution system not depicted for storing and providing the secondary content related to the media content to be presented to the user . In other embodiments the secondary content may be provided to the content presentation system separately from the content distribution system for providing to the content receiver . Particularly secondary content may be stored in secondary content databases and provided to the content presentation system . The number of secondary content databases depicted in the figures is solely by way of example and one of ordinary skill in the art will understand that the secondary content databases may include less than three or more than three databases. The secondary content databases may be connected and operated by a database server which receives an identifier of media content from the content presentation system and retrieves related secondary content from the secondary content databases for providing to the content presentation system . Alternatively the content presentation system may determine identifiers of the secondary content to be presented to the user related to the media content and transmit a query to the server computer to provide the identified secondary content from the secondary content databases .

In certain embodiments the secondary content databases may each be configured to store particular types of secondary content. For example secondary content database may be configured to store deleted scenes database may be configured to store actor information and database may be configured to store background information on locations and landscapes. In these embodiments the secondary content may be stored in the databases for use in connection with multiple and various media content. For example the same secondary content clip stored in database discussing a particular actor may be used for presentation of two separate media content where the same particular actor appears in both media content.

Secondary content databases may be implemented in the same hardware computer system as content presentation system connected to the content presentation system via a network or otherwise communicatively coupled by various networked computer systems such that the content presentation system is capable of indexing querying receiving and transmitting information to and from the secondary content databases. In some embodiments not depicted the secondary content databases may be networked via a communication system or network such as the internet and in some embodiments content receiver may be configured to receive information directly from said content databases not depicted . In some embodiments the secondary content may be stored in a single database for each media content or a single database corresponding to a particular content distributor or content provider.

In an embodiment the secondary content may also include content received from external or third party sources which is related to the media content presented to the user . An example of this type of secondary content is information received from social media application sources such as FACEBOOK TWITTER INSTAGRAM and the like. Secondary content stored in databases related to social media applications may be related to the media content based on a certain keyword or metadata tag associated with the secondary content or the secondary content may have been created or entered into the social media database via an interface related to the media content as will be discussed below in further detail .

For the purposes of background information social media applications allow users to form connections with other users of the same application for sharing information including two way connections in which each user validates or approves the connection with the other or one way connections in which a first user requests a subscription to the content entered by a second user where the subscription request is automatically approved in some cases without action from the second user or in other cases where the second user must provide approval of the subscription request from the first user. Such connections allow a particular user to generate and upload content to one or more third party databases including social media databases which is then provided and made available to each user to whom the particular user shares a connection. In other cases a user of a social media application may choose to leave his or her generated content public or in other words available to the general public such that the user s social media content is viewable by anyone regardless of whether the user is connected to a viewing user via the social media framework.

Thus in some embodiments of the system content presentation system may be connected to a third party database or via or by a corresponding third party system including server computers and various networks not depicted and collectively referred to herein for convenience as third party database such as a social media application framework configured to store and provide social media content generated by the social media application. The content presentation system may be connected to the third party database via a network such as the internet . The content presentation system may be configured to access receive transmit or upload information to and from the third party database using a specific application programming interface API provided by the third party such as an application specific API provided by FACEBOOK TWITTER INSTAGRAM and the like. In some embodiments not depicted the content receiver may be configured to communicate with third party database via the corresponding API. In yet other embodiments the content presentation system may be connected to the third party database via other communication means such as a LAN or an intranet or the content presentation system and the third party database may be otherwise implemented or co located in a unified hardware configuration or location such that a network connection such as the Internet is not required. Accordingly while includes a description of as associated with a third party the depicted embodiment is for example only and various configurations and embodiments are considered wherein the database of and the content presentation of are implemented by a single party.

Using said API or other tools the content presentation system may receive information related to the user s various connections within a social media application framework in addition to social media content which the user has access to within the social media application which may be related to the media content being presented to the user. The API can subject to authorization of a user expose various functionality of a social media application framework to applications using the API such as access to information about users their connected users biographical or profile information images videos and the like. In this way the content presentation system may via the connection to the third party database and the API publish content and or retrieve content to and from the third party database and subsequently generate and provide instructions for displaying the content at the content receiver as will be described further herein.

In such embodiments the content receiver may be configured to receive inputs for authentication information of the user for each social media database accessed by the content presentation system . Accordingly the content receiver may present an interface to the user to provide a user identifier and user password for each identified social media application in order to authenticate the content presentation system for access to the social media database . Using an identifier of the user the content presentation system may receive all connection information of the user in addition to any social media content available to the user via any connections which may be related to the media content being presented to the user. As previously discussed the authentication information of the user for third party systems may be stored in a data store of the content presentation system or stored in another memory or data store and be associated with the account information of the user.

For example using an identifier of the user and an identifier of the media content being presented to the user the content presentation system may retrieve social media content generated by connected another user where the social media content is related to the identifier of the media content. The content presentation system may be configured to then present the received social media content associated with user to the user in a graphical user interface along with the media content which will be discussed in further detail herein. The content presentation system may be further configured to present the social media content alongside or within the presented media content according to a specific time region language color appearance volume or other presentation characteristic during the presentation of the media content according to certain data contained in or a certain characteristic of the social media content.

Turning now to an illustration of an example of a user interface for presenting media content rendered by a client according to an embodiment of the present disclosure is depicted. The content presentation system may receive media content to be presented to the user in most cases in response to a user s selection of the media content for viewing from a selectable list of available content. During the presentation of the media content a playback timeline and a current playback indicator may be displayed to indicate the total time elapsed and remaining in the media content and the current position of the playback within the media content. In addition to these interface elements the content presentation system may further be configured to provide information on secondary content related to the media content as previously discussed. It is considered that the timeline though depicted in as being temporal need not necessarily be an indicator of positions of content segments relative to the timecode or time stamps in which they appear in the media content. For example in one embodiment the timeline is a series of segments to be played in a certain order where the ordering is based on relevance in response to a search query with the most relevant segment played first followed by the next most relevant. Other embodiments are considered where the segments of the timeline are presented based on an ordering determined on a specific criteria either in response to an action or input by the user factors based on the circumstances in which the media content is viewed such as time of day personal data relevant to the user other media content recently viewed and the like.

In some embodiments secondary content indicators may be displayed on the playback timeline to provide a visual indication on the existence of related secondary content. As previously discussed the secondary content may include audio video or text information related to the media content such as behind the scenes deleted scenes commentary social media content and the like. The secondary content indicators may be displayed at various positions along the playback timeline such that each indicator is centered about a time point corresponding to a timestamp associated with the secondary content item. In other embodiments the playback timeline may be divided into a number of equal portions or chapters of the media content. In such embodiments one secondary content indicator may be displayed per chapter and each indicator may be displayed in the center of each portion of the timeline.

The content presentation system may be configured to display the corresponding secondary content when the current playback indicator reaches a time of the media content corresponding to a particular secondary content indicator displayed on the playback timeline. Alternatively the content presentation system may be configured to display secondary content when a user selects a particular corresponding secondary content indicator displayed on the playback timeline. The interface may also include various control items discussed further herein for varying or filtering the secondary content indicators generating new secondary content to be related to the media content searching for content including secondary content and additional functionality with respect to the media content.

Referring now to an illustration of an example of a user interface for generating secondary content rendered by a client according to an embodiment of the present disclosure is shown. During playback of the media content a playback timeline and current playback indicator may be provided by the content presentation system to the client as previously discussed. If the user viewing the media content wishes to generate social media information such as a comment or a post in relation to a particular point in the media content being viewed the user may select control item to cause a social media content interface to be generated and displayed by the client. The control item may include various sub items corresponding to various options for generating secondary content. In some embodiments each sub item may correspond to a different social media application or different secondary content medium. For example sub items may allow a user to choose between generating social media content in FACEBOOK TWITTER or INSTAGRAM or the sub items may also allow the user to choose between uploading a photo a video or a text comment to be associated with the media content at the particular playback position corresponding to the current playback indicator .

Referring now to the content presentation system may provide the client with a social media content generation interface wherein the content created is associated with the particular timestamp corresponding to the current playback indicator when the user selected control item to generate new secondary content. The content generation interface may include information about the user within the social media framework and the content to be created including a user profile image user name and date associated with the generated content. The content generation interface may include input functionality to allow the user to input information using a non keyboard device such as a remote control or mouse by moving a cursor around the displayed list of characters and selecting the next desired character. In other embodiments the user may input the content information via a client device or peripheral such as a tablet computer computer keyboard smartphone touchscreen and the like.

Once the user has completed inputting the social media information the user may cause the input content to be transmitted via an input and cause the input content to be uploaded to the third party database and to the social media application framework. In some embodiments the system may also store the secondary content or a copy of the secondary content created via the system to be stored in the secondary content databases or the secondary content may be stored in other memory including local memory hardware or memory connected via a network such as cloud storage or servers. The stored secondary content may be stored with associated information metadata or identifiers including an identifier for the user generating the secondary content an identifier for the user viewing the media content the media content being viewed by the user at the time the secondary content was created and a timestamp corresponding to the current playback position at the time the secondary content was created.

In some embodiments the content receiver may be configured to capture activity of a user via the interface and automatically generate information that can be stored or transmitted to the social media application framework. In one embodiment a user can authorize various actions to be captured and stored or transmitted to the social media application and made available to other connected users. Thus a user can authorize updates regarding his or her media content consumption media content interests viewing or browsing history social media likes or dislikes to other connected users within the social media application framework. Accordingly the content presentation system may capture certain actions in a user interface related to for example the playing of the media content and generate a corresponding social media application information.

For social media content as discussed the content presentation system may obtain account and authentication information from the user who is viewing the media content in order to access information in a third party database via a social media application specific API. The content presentation system may be configured to query the third party database for social media content that is associated with the particular media content being viewed by the user. Additionally the social media content may be limited to the content generated by other users of the social media application to whom the particular user is connected to or generated by users who have designated their content to be available publicly as previously discussed. Alternatively the content presentation system may be configured to allow the user to designate certain selected other users of the social media application and query the third party database for social media content which is associated with or generated by only those selected other users.

Based on the secondary content provided by secondary content databases and received from the third party database the content presentation system may generate information for the client to display secondary content indicators on the playback timeline to indicate the position and the amount of secondary content available. For example secondary content indicator may be displayed by the client to indicate that a single item of secondary content related to the media content is available at the corresponding time position along the playback timeline. Secondary content indicator may be displayed by the client to indicate that two items of secondary content related to the media content are available at the corresponding time position along the playback timeline and secondary content indicator may be displayed by the client to indicate that three items of secondary content related to the media content are available at the corresponding time position along the playback timeline. Thus secondary content indicators such as and may provide visual indication to a viewer that multiple items of secondary content are available at a particular position along the playback timeline. The multiple items of secondary content may include various types of secondary content as previously discussed including additional audio video images or text content related to the media content being viewed by the user such as behind the scenes clips director commentary captioning alternate languages deleted scenes alternate scenes character information actor biography information uploaded images or videos social media content and the like. As previously discussed the content presentation system may provide instructions for displaying secondary content available at a particular position when the current playback position enters a time range corresponding to the secondary content indicator or when the user selects the secondary content indicator.

The content presentation system may generate instructions for displaying each secondary content indicator in a size to correspond to the number of secondary content items available at the corresponding position on the playback timeline. The secondary content indicator size may be increased with each additional item of secondary content available. However in some embodiments a maximum size of the secondary content indicator may be set so as not to interfere with the viewing of the media content . For example secondary content indicator may be displayed to indicate that there are a particular number of secondary content items available at the corresponding time position. The secondary content indicator may be displayed in increasing sizes until it reaches the maximum size and thereafter the secondary content indicator may be displayed in the same maximum size despite additional items of secondary content becoming available at the same time position.

Additionally each secondary content indicator may be positioned to correspond to a particular range of time within the playback timeline and the corresponding range of time may increase or decrease according to the displayed size of the secondary content indicator. For example secondary content indicator in the displayed size of may correspond to a time range of one minute starting from 1 30 00 to 1 31 00. The time range may be based on a displayed size of the secondary content indicator. Accordingly if another item of secondary content becomes available within the one minute range of 1 30 00 to 1 31 00 the size of secondary content indicator may be increased such that the indicator now corresponds to a time range increased by one minute for example 1 29 30 to 1 31 30.

In some embodiments secondary content indicators may be merged to form increased size indicators where the corresponding time ranges of two indicators overlap by a threshold amount of time. For example if another secondary content indicator corresponding to a time range of 1 32 00 to 1 33 00 is displayed next to indicator as described above corresponding to the time range of 1 30 00 to 1 31 00 the two indicators may overlap when the size of either or both indicators are increased due to additional secondary content. Accordingly a threshold overlap amount may be set such that the indicators are displayed as separate indicators until the amount of overlap between the two indicators reaches the set threshold overlap amount. Thus in the above example indicator may be displayed as corresponding to a time range of 1 29 20 to 1 31 40 and the nearby secondary indicator may be displayed as corresponding to a time range of 1 31 30 to 1 33 30 where the threshold overlap amount is set to 20 seconds as an example. As the two secondary content indicators are increased due to additional secondary items becoming available the content presentation system may provide instructions for displaying a single secondary content indicator to represent all secondary content items originally corresponding to the secondary content indicator and the nearby indicator.

The new combined indicator may be positioned by determining a center point corresponding to an average of all timestamps of the secondary content represented by the indicators. In other embodiments the combined indicator may be positioned about a center point determined by a median of the timestamp indicators. In other words the center point of the combed indicator may be set to a middle point between the left most timestamp and right most timestamp of the group of secondary content items. In yet other embodiments the playback timeline may be divided in equal portions or chapters and each combined secondary content indicator may be centered within each portion to indicate that secondary content is available at some point within the designated chapter.

Referring now to an illustration of an example of a user interface for presenting secondary content rendered by a client according to an embodiment of the present disclosure is depicted. While a user is viewing the media content the current playback indicator is displayed to progress along the playback timeline . As previously discussed secondary content indicators are displayed along the playback timeline representing secondary content items that are available at the corresponding time positions. As the current playback indicator reaches a time region corresponding to secondary content indicator the secondary content items corresponding to the indicator may be displayed to the user on the interface. The secondary content may be displayed to the user in a region of the display so as not to interfere with the presentation of the media content . In other embodiments the media content may be automatically paused when secondary content is displayed on the display. In some embodiments the media content may be resumed after a certain amount of time after which the secondary content is no longer displayed.

In the example shown in secondary content indicator is displayed to indicate that two secondary content items are available at the corresponding position. Accordingly the secondary content indicator is displayed in a size larger than secondary indicator which is displayed to indicate that one secondary content item is available at that time point. The secondary content items may be both displayed at the same time when the current playback indicator enters the time region corresponding to the indicator . Alternatively each secondary content item may be displayed according to its corresponding timestamp within the time region represented by the indicator . When the current playback indicator leaves the time range corresponding to the indicator or when the current playback indicator passes a particular time point corresponding to a secondary content item or in response to an input command by the user the secondary content may be removed from the display to the user.

As shown in the example of a displayed secondary content item may include additional media such as video . If a user selects the secondary content video for viewing the content presentation system may provide instructions to automatically pause the media content for the user to view the secondary content video. In some embodiments the secondary content video may be displayed to fill the entire display by replacing the media content . Once the secondary content video has concluded the media content may be returned to fill the entire display. In some embodiments a user may select secondary content to take further action on the item such as submitting a response inserting a comment playing or displaying the media included in the secondary content deleting the secondary content moving the secondary content to another time point sending the secondary content to another user and the like. In other embodiments secondary content items may include only a preview of the full secondary content. The full secondary content may be displayed or displayed in a larger size in response to a selection by the user. In some embodiments in response to a selection of a preview image of a secondary content item content presentation system generates instructions to pause the playback of the media content .

Referring now to illustrations of an example of a user interface for displaying secondary content rendered by a client according to an embodiment of the present disclosure is depicted. As shown in and previously discussed the media content is displayed with a current playback indicator progressing along a playback timeline which includes secondary content indicators such as to indicate the availability of secondary content at the corresponding time points. As discussed the interface may also include various control items for varying or filtering the secondary content indicators generating new secondary content to be related to the media content searching for content including secondary content and additional functionality with respect to the media content. Among the control items a filter control may be provided for the user to control the types of indicators which are displayed on the playback timeline. Additionally by controlling the display of the types of indicators the user may control the types of secondary content which are displayed during the viewing of the media content .

For example the playback timeline may include secondary content indicator which represents the existence of three types of secondary content at the corresponding time point three items related to social media one item related to behind the scenes video content and one item related to a deleted scenes video from the particular point in the media content . Additionally secondary content indicator may represent one deleted scene video from the corresponding time point of indicator and may represent one deleted scene video and one social media comment at the corresponding time point of indicator . Filter control may be provided to allow the user to select the types of secondary content that should be displayed to the user while the media content is being viewed and accordingly the secondary indicators to be displayed on the progress timeline . Thus when the user selects filter control and selects or de selects various filter options within the filter control secondary content indicators may be additionally displayed or removed from the display.

In furtherance of the above example if the user selects only social media information in the filter options as secondary content type that should be displayed secondary indicator may be removed from the display completely as shown in since the indicator only represented one deleted scenes video item. Similarly since the indicator of represented secondary content including a deleted scene and behind the scenes video content the user s selection of only the social media content results in the size of the indicator of being decreased to indicate that only three secondary content items the three items of social media content are available at that particular time point as shown in . Similarly the size of the indicator is decreased to indicate that only one secondary content item one social media comment is available at the corresponding time point in . Accordingly various secondary content indicators may be added removed increased in size or decreased in size in response to a user s selection or de selection as shown in .

In addition to the examples discussed herein various embodiments of the present disclosure include a content presentation system capable of providing information for displaying an interface according to an input command of a viewing user. For example in some embodiments the user may zoom in or zoom out of the playback timeline in order to view the secondary content indicators move the playback timeline to various regions of the display to optimize viewing of the media content or other controls to alter the display of the secondary content and related interfaces. An example of zooming in on a portion of the playback timeline is shown in .

When the timeline is zoomed in to a particular portion of the playback timeline the secondary content indicators may be individually displayed not depicted such that any combined indicators are separated and each secondary content item is represented by a single displayed indicator on the zoomed in playback timeline . In such a configuration the user may be able to identify each secondary content item individually on the zoomed in timeline . In some embodiments the content presentation system may also be configured to generate instructions for displaying a preview of each secondary content item. Accordingly each individually displayed secondary content indicator on the zoomed in timeline not depicted may be displayed to correspond to a preview image. The user may then easily browse through all secondary content items and select particular items to view in detail without having to select each secondary content indicator displayed on the default configuration playback timeline as shown in previous examples. The user may access zoomed in or zoomed out views of the timeline by inputting a selection via the input device as previously discussed. For example while viewing the media content the user may select a down arrow button via an input device which displays a zoomed in timeline from the bottom of the screen. Thereafter the user may browse through various levels of content and navigational functions by inputting various controls via the input device.

For example in the row above the playback timeline may show preview images for secondary content items which belong to the categories of background information social media and deleted scenes. In some embodiments the screen may be configured to display all secondary content items in the order in which they appear on the playback timeline regardless of whether they are associated with the currently zoomed in secondary indicator . For example preview images of secondary content items may be associated with the zoomed in secondary content indicator as previously discussed. The screen may also display preview images for secondary content items and which are not associated with secondary indicator but that are associated with secondary content indicators which appear before and after indicator . Thus when a user navigates through the preview images of secondary content items the zoomed in screen may be configured to jump to a zoomed in view of the next secondary content indicator following the currently displayed indicator . The screen may display a transition to a view of the next secondary content indicator when the user navigates from preview image associated with the current indicator to preview image associated with the next indicator. Similarly a transition is shown to a view of the previous secondary content indicator when the user navigates from preview image to preview image . Thus the user is able to navigate through the secondary content based on the items of secondary content available on the playback timeline.

As shown in the row below the zoomed in playback timeline may contain preview images of secondary content belonging to a different category such as cast and character information. For example at secondary indicator the preview image may be displayed to indicate information on the cast and characters which appear in a scene associated with the particular point on the playback timeline. Multiple preview images may be displayed on the row and may be navigable by the user similar to the embodiment discussed above with respect to preview images . Other embodiments may include additional rows associated with other categories of secondary content where one row may be associated with one or more categories such that the user is able to navigate through the secondary content items available. Alternatively the current playback indicator may be manipulated by the user to scroll or navigate through the preview images of secondary content to select an item to view. Thus the screen may be configured such that the user is able to select a navigation row with an input such as an up arrow command or a down arrow command where the selected row will be navigated in response to inputs such as a left arrow command or right arrow command.

Additionally the content presentation system the content receiver or both may be configured to provide search functionality for a particular item of secondary content. As shown in the results of a search may be displayed to a user in the form of preview images along a timeline . In a search interface according to the present invention the user may enter a search value in a search field the form of text or other characters. The user may also set a number of search filters or conditions using filter controls . The filter controls may be used to adjust the types of search results returned to the user particular locations or times along the playback timeline to perform the search or other conditions to control various aspects of the search or search results.

After performing the requested search the user interface may be configured to display relevant search results visually along a timeline representative of the media content. For example a search for Set design may return search results each representing a secondary media content item associated with content related to set design. The search text set design may appear in a title of the secondary content item or in a metadata tag assigned to the secondary content item. Alternatively in some embodiments a secondary content item may be returned as a search result due to the word set design appearing somewhere within the secondary content detected by content recognition functionality such as voice recognition text recognition and the like.

The search interface may display each search result along a timeline representation of the media content. For example search result may be displayed as a preview image with an indicator to show an association with a corresponding timestamp along the timeline . The interface may further allow the user to navigate through the search results by displaying the currently selected search result in a larger size as shown at than the remaining number of search results shown at . As the user navigates to search result the previously selected search result may be displayed in a smaller size and search result may then be displayed in the selected larger size. Alternatively in some embodiments the size of each preview image may be based on the corresponding secondary content item s relevance to the user s search. In this example the search interface may indicate that secondary content item is most relevant to the search for set design and accordingly display preview image in a larger size than the remaining less relevant search results .

The playback timeline may also display the current playback indicator of the media content to provide an indication to the user where the user s current viewing position is with respect to the search results. Thus the search results interface may provide quick information at a glance regarding which search results may be most relevant to the user s specific search and media content viewing position.

The search results timeline may also be configured to display the search results in various configurations including diving the search results interface into a number of rows for displaying preview images of search results above and below the timeline as previously discussed with respect to . For example if the search filter controls are set to search within the Timeline and Social content for the search text the search results related to Timeline may be displayed in a defined row above the timeline and the search results related to Social may be displayed in a defined row below the timeline .

According to embodiments of the present invention a system for presenting media content with dynamic secondary content may include a content presentation system configured to provide media content for display to a first user wherein the media content is received from a content distribution system or the like. The content presentation system may be further configured to provide information to a client for displaying a playback position indicator on a playback timeline and obtain secondary content related to the media content wherein the secondary content is associated with a second user wherein the first user and second user are associated according to a third party database. The content presentation system may be further configured to store the secondary content in a memory and in some embodiments may store additional metadata or identifying information to be associated with the stored secondary content. The memory for storing secondary content may include local memory or networked storage including cloud storage. Additionally the content presentation system may further be configured to generate and transmit instructions for displaying a first indicator of the secondary content at a first position on the playback timeline to the first user wherein the first position corresponds to a first timestamp associated with the secondary content.

It will be understood by those of ordinary skill in the art that in certain embodiments the content presentation system includes at least one processor circuit for example having a processor and a memory. To this end the content presentation system may comprise for example at least one server computer or like device. Stored in the memory may be both data and several components that are executable by the processor. In particular stored in the memory and executable by the processor are applications related to receiving collecting storing generating transmitting information and instructions related to displaying the media content. Also stored in the memory may be a data store and other data. In addition an operating system may be stored in the memory and executable by the processor.

It is understood that there may be other applications that are stored in the memory and are executable by the processor as can be appreciated. For a software implementation certain embodiments described herein may be implemented with separate software modules such as procedures and functions each of which perform one or more of the functions and operations described herein. The software code can be implemented with a software application stored in memory and executed by a controller or processor written in any suitable programming language such as for example C C C Objective C Java JavaScript Perl PHP Visual Basic Python Ruby Delphi Flash or other programming languages.

A number of software components may be stored in the memory and executable by the processor. In this respect the term executable means a program file that is in a form that can ultimately be run by the processor. Examples of executable programs may be for example a compiled program that can be translated into machine code in a format that can be loaded into a random access portion of the memory and run by the processor source code that maybe expressed in proper format such as object code that is capable of being loaded into a random access portion of the memory and executed by the processor or source code that may be interpreted by another executable program to generate instructions in a random access portion of the memory to be executed by the processor etc. An executable program may be stored in any portion or component of the memory including for example random access memory RAM read only memory ROM hard drive solid state drive USB flash drive memory card optical disc floppy disk magnetic tape or other memory components.

The memory is defined herein as including both volatile and nonvolatile memory and data storage components. Volatile components are those that do not retain data values upon loss of power. Nonvolatile components are those that retain data upon a loss of power. Thus the memory may comprise for example random access memory RAM read only memory ROM hard disk drives solid state drives USB flash drives memory cards accessed via a memory card reader floppy disks accessed via an associated floppy disk drive optical discs accessed via an optical disc drive magnetic tapes accessed via an appropriate tape drive and or other memory components or a combination of any two or more of these memory components. In addition the RAM may comprise for example static random access memory SRAM dynamic random access memory DRAM or magnetic random access memory MRAM and other such devices. The ROM may comprise for example a programmable read only memory PROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM an electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM or other like memory device. Also the processor may include multiple processors and the memory may include multiple memory modules that operate in parallel processing circuits respectively.

Various embodiments of the content presentation system and all other related systems described herein may be implemented in a computer readable non transitory medium a machine readable medium or similar medium using for example software hardware or any combination thereof. For a hardware implementation the embodiments of various systems described herein may be implemented within one or more application specific integrated circuits ASICs digital signal processors DSPs digital signal processing devices DSPDs programmable logic devices PLDs field programmable gate arrays FPGAs processors controllers micro controllers microprocessors other electronic units designed to perform the functions described herein or a selective combination thereof. In some cases such embodiments are implemented by a controller or a processor.

The various devices modules terminals systems and the like discussed herein may be implemented on a computer by execution of software comprising machine instructions read from computer readable non transitory medium. These hardware aspects may further include an input output interface graphical user interface or other input output means to allow the input output of information related to controlling functions inputting information outputting information receiving information or transmitting information. The hardware aspects may further include circuitry wired and wireless networking hardware and hardware connectivity configurations to enable to various computers processors memory interfaces and the like to communicate transmit receive and otherwise exchange information with each other and with external or third party sources such as the Internet. In certain embodiments several hardware aspects may be implemented using a single computer in other embodiments multiple computers input output systems and hardware components may be used to implement the system.

The foregoing disclosed embodiments and features are merely exemplary and are not to be construed as limiting the present invention. The present teachings can be readily applied to other types of apparatuses and processes. The description of such embodiments is intended to be illustrative and not to limit the scope of the claims. Many alternatives modifications and variations will be apparent to those skilled in the art.

