---

title: Mobile terminal for cell reselection in cellular mobile communication system and methods therefor
abstract: Methods and apparatuses are provided for cell reselection at a mobile terminal. A first cell measurement is performed with respect to a serving cell and a first set of one or more cells included in a neighbor cell list. A second cell measurement is performed to detect a second set of one or more cells that are not included in the neighbor cell list, based on the first cell measurement. One or more candidate cells that satisfy cell reselection criteria are determined from among the first set of one or more cells and the second set of one or more cells. One of the one or more candidate cells is reselected.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09648554&OS=09648554&RS=09648554
owner: Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd
number: 09648554
owner_city: 
owner_country: KR
publication_date: 20150818
---
This application claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 e to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 62 038 677 which was filed in the United States Patent and Trademark Office on Aug. 18 2014 and claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 a to Korean Application Serial No. 10 2014 0172188 which was filed in the Korean Intellectual Property Office on Dec. 3 2014 the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.

The present disclosure relates generally to cell reselection of a mobile terminal in a cellular mobile communication system and more particularly to mobile terminal cell reselection when cells included in a neighbor cell list are not detected in an idle state and an operation method thereof.

In a cellular mobile communication system when a mobile terminal enters an idle state the mobile terminal determines whether paging is received based on a paging period and executes a cell measurement procedure with respect to cells included in a neighbor cell list. For example reception power of neighbor cells may be measured to determine cell reselection criteria for the cell measurement procedure. The neighbor cell list may be included in a system information block SIB and may be broadcasted from each cell.

When cells satisfying the cell reselection criteria are retrieved from a result of the cell measurement procedure performed based on the neighbor cell list during a predetermined period of time a corresponding cell may be reselected.

However when the neighbor cell list which is obtained from the broadcasted system information is erroneously configured the mobile terminal may fail to detect a neighbor cell for cell reselection even though a channel quality of a serving cell has become poor. In this instance when a neighbor cell for cell reselection is not detected during the predetermined period of time the mobile terminal determines that the mobile terminal is out of service and proceeds with a cell selection procedure. However during a waiting time required for that the mobile terminal is out of service and a time for performing cell selection reception of paging may be limited.

The embodiments herein have been made to address at least the above problems and or disadvantages and to provide at least the advantages described below. Accordingly an aspect of the embodiments provides a mobile terminal for cell reselection in a cellular mobile communication system and an operation method thereof.

Various embodiments provide a method and an apparatus for performing cell reselection by detecting a cell that is not included in a neighbor cell list when a cell included in a neighbor cell list is not detected around a mobile terminal.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure a method for a mobile terminal to execute cell reselection is provided. The method includes performing a first cell measurement with respect to a serving cell and one or more cells included in a neighbor cell list performing a second cell measurement to detect a second set of one or more cells that are not included in the neighbor cell list based on the first cell measurement determining one or more candidate cells that satisfy cell reselection criteria from among the first set of one or more cells and the second set of one or more cells and reselecting one of the one or more candidate cells.

Embodiments of the present disclosure are described in detail with reference to the accompanying drawings. The same or similar components may be designated by the same or similar reference numerals although they are illustrated in different drawings. Detailed descriptions of constructions or processes known in the art may be omitted to avoid obscuring the subject matter of the present disclosure.

The term include or the phrase may include refers to the existence of a corresponding disclosed function operation or component which can be used in various embodiments of the present disclosure and does not limit one or more additional functions operations or components. In the present disclosure terms such as include or have may be construed to denote a certain characteristic number step operation constituent element component or a combination thereof but may not be construed to exclude the existence of or a possibility of one or more additional characteristics numbers steps operations constituent elements components or combinations thereof.

The term or as used herein includes any or all of combinations of listed words. For example the expression A or B may include A may include B or may include both A and B.

The expressions 1 2 first or second as used herein may modify various components of various embodiments but does not limit the corresponding components. For example the above expressions do not limit the sequence and or importance of the corresponding constituent elements. The above expressions are used merely for the purpose of distinguishing an element from the other elements. For example a first user device and a second user device indicate different user devices although both of them are user devices. Without departing from the scope of the present disclosure a first structural element may be referred to as a second structural element. Similarly the second structural element may also be referred to as the first structural element.

It should be noted that if it is described that an element is coupled or connected to another element the first element may be directly coupled or connected to the second element and a third element may be coupled or connected between the first and second elements. Contrarily when an element is directly coupled or directly connected to another element it may be construed that a third element does not exist between the first element and the second element.

The terms used herein are used to describe a specific embodiment and are not intended to limit the present disclosure. Singular forms are intended to include plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise.

Unless defined differently all terms used herein which include technical or scientific terminologies have the same meanings as those understood by a person skilled in the art to which the present disclosure belongs. Such terms as those defined in a generally used dictionary are to be interpreted to have the meanings equal to the contextual meanings in the relevant field of art and are not to be interpreted to have ideal or excessively formal meanings unless clearly defined in the present disclosure.

An electronic device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure may be a device with a communication function. For example the electronic device may be embodied as at least one of a smart phone a tablet personal computer PC a mobile phone a video phone an e book reader a desktop PC a laptop PC a netbook computer a personal digital assistant PDA a portable multimedia player PMP an MP3 player a mobile medical device a camera a wearable device e.g. a head mounted device HMD such as electronic glasses electronic clothes an electronic bracelet an electronic necklace an electronic appcessory an electronic tattoo or a smart watch .

According to some embodiments the electronic device may be embodied as a smart home appliance with a communication function. The smart home appliance may be at least one of for example a television a Digital Versatile Disc DVD player an audio system a refrigerator an air conditioner a vacuum cleaner an oven a microwave oven a washing machine an air cleaner a set top box a TV box a game console an electronic dictionary an electronic key a camcorder and an electronic picture frame.

According to some embodiments the electronic device may be embodied as at least one of various medical appliances e.g. magnetic resonance angiography MRA magnetic resonance imaging MRI a computed tomography CT machine and an ultrasonic machine navigation devices global positioning system GPS receivers event data recorders EDRs flight data recorders FDRs automotive infotainment devices electronic equipment for ships e.g. navigation equipment for ships gyrocompasses or the like avionics security devices head units for vehicles industrial or home robots automated teller machines ATM of banking facilities and point of sales POSs of shops.

According to another embodiment the electronic device may be embodied as at least one of furniture or a part of a building structure having a communication function electronic boards electronic signature receiving devices projectors or various measuring equipment e.g. equipment for a water supply an electricity gases or radio waves . An electronic device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure may be a combination of one or more of the various above described devices. Also an electronic device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure may be a flexible device. Further an electronic device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure is not limited to the above described devices.

Hereinafter an electronic device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure will be described with reference to the accompanying drawings. The term user as used herein may refer to a person who uses an electronic device or a device for example an artificial intelligence electronic device that uses an electronic device.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure a method for a mobile terminal to execute cell reselection is provided. A first cell measurement is performed with respect to a serving cell and a first set of one or more cells included in a neighbor cell list. A second cell measurement is performed to detect a second set of one or more cells that are not included in the neighbor cell list based on the first cell measurement. One or more candidate cells that satisfy cell reselection criteria are determined from among the first set of one or more cells and the second set of one or more cells. One of the one or more candidate cells is reselected.

According to another embodiment of the present disclosure a mobile terminal for cell reselection is provided. The mobile terminal includes a measurement module to perform a first cell measurement with respect to a serving cell and a first set of one or more cells included in a neighbor cell list and to perform a second cell measurement to detect a second set of one or more cells that are not included in the neighbor cell list based on the first cell measurement a determining module to determine one or more candidate cells that satisfy cell reselection criteria from among the first set of one or more cells and the second set of one or more cells and a cell reselection control module to reselect one of the one or more candidate cells.

According to another embodiment of the present disclosure an electronic device is provided. The electronic device includes one or more processors a memory and one or more programs that are stored in the memory and are configured to be implemented by the one or more processors wherein the one or more programs include instructions for performing determining whether to execute a measurement with respect to at least one cell that is not included in a neighbor cell list based on at least one condition performing the measurement with respect to the at least one cell that is not included in the neighbor cell list when the at least one condition is satisfied and selecting a cell that satisfies cell reselection criteria from among the at least one cell that is not included in the neighbor cell list.

According to another embodiment of the present disclosure a system on chip for cell reselection of a mobile terminal is provided. The system on chip is configured to perform a first cell measurement with respect to a serving cell and a first set of one or more cells included in a neighbor cell list perform a second cell measurement to detect a second set of one or more cells that are not included in the neighbor cell list based on the first cell measurement determine one or more candidate cells that satisfy cell reselection criteria from among the first set of one or more cells and the second set of one or more cells and reselect one of the one or more candidate cells.

According to another embodiment of the present disclosure a method for a mobile terminal to execute cell reselection is provided. The method includes performing a first cell measurement with respect to a serving cell and a first set of one or more cells included in a neighbor cell list determining whether at least one condition is satisfied with respect to at least one of the serving cell and the first set of one or more cells performing a second cell measurement to detect a second set of one or more cells that are not included in the neighbor cell list when the at least one condition is satisfied determining one or more candidate cells that satisfy cell reselection criteria from among the first set of one or more cells when the at least one condition is not satisfied and from among the first set of one or more cells and the second set of one or more cells when the at least one condition is satisfied and reselecting one of the one or more candidate cells.

According to another embodiment of the present disclosure a mobile terminal for cell reselection is provided. The mobile terminal includes a measurement module to perform a first cell measurement with respect to a serving cell and a first set of one or more cells included in a neighbor cell list determine whether at least one condition is satisfied with respect to at least one of the serving cell and the first set of one or more cells and perform a second cell measurement to detect a second set of one or more cells that are not included in the neighbor cell list when the at least one condition is satisfied a determining module to determine one or more candidate cells that satisfy cell reselection criteria from among the first set of one or more cells when the at least one condition is not satisfied and from among the first set of one or more cells and the second set of one or more cells when the at least one condition is satisfied and a cell selection control module to reselect one of the one or more candidate cells.

Referring to when a network is configured a neighbor cell list is configured based on a path order from base station A to base station B to base station C and to base station D along which a mobile terminal moves. For example base station A broadcasts a neighbor cell list including base stations B and C. Base station B broadcasts a neighbor cell list including base stations A and C. Base station C broadcasts a neighbor cell list including base stations B and D. Base station D broadcasts a neighbor cell list including base stations A and C.

However when a mobile terminal moves along a path from base station A to base station B and to base station D base station D is not included in the neighbor cell list of base station B. Thus the mobile terminal may execute a cell measurement procedure with respect to base station A and base station C which are included in the neighbor cell list of base station B. Therefore the mobile terminal fails to reselect base station D and executes a cell selection procedure after a predetermined period of time.

Hereinafter various embodiments of the present disclosure will describe an electronic device for cell reselection in a cellular mobile communication system and an operation method thereof.

In particular various embodiments of the present disclosure include a procedure performed while the electronic device is in an idle state in a cellular mobile communication system. The procedure includes performing cell measurement procedure for searching for cells that are not included in a neighbor cell list provided from a network hereinafter referred to as detected cell measurement managing the detected cells and performing reselection on the detected cells.

The bus may be a circuit for connecting the aforementioned component elements and transmitting communication for example a control message between the aforementioned component elements.

The processor may receive instructions from the aforementioned other component elements for example the memory the input output interface the display the communication interface the cell reselection module or the like through the bus may decipher the received instructions and may perform calculations or data processing according to the deciphered instructions.

The memory may store instructions or data received from or created by the processor or the other component elements for example the input output interface the display the communication interface the cell reselection module or the like . The memory includes programming modules for example a kernel middleware an application programming interface API an application or the like. Each of the programming modules may be formed of software firmware hardware or a combination of two or more thereof.

The kernel may control or manage system resources for example the bus the processor the memory or the like used for performing an operation or a function implemented in the remaining other programming modules for example the middleware the API or the application . In addition the kernel may provide an interface through which the middleware the API or the application may control or manage the individual component elements of the electronic device while accessing the individual component elements.

The middleware may perform a relay function of allowing the API or the application to communicate with the kernel to exchange data therewith. Furthermore with respect to task requests received from the application the middleware may perform a control for example scheduling or load balancing for the task requests using for example a method of assigning at least one application a priority for using the system resources for example the bus the processor the memory or the like of the electronic device .

The API is an interface through which the application may control functions provided by the kernel and the middleware and may include at least one interface or function for example instruction for file control window control image processing character control or the like.

According to various embodiments the application may include a short message service SMS multimedia messaging service MMS application an e mail application a calendar application an alarm application a health care application for example an application for measuring an amount of exercise or blood sugar an environmental information application for example an application for providing information associated with atmospheric pressure humidity temperature and the like or the like. Additionally or alternatively the application may be an application related to exchanging information between the electronic device and an external electronic device for example an electronic device . The application related to exchanging information may include for example a notification relay application for transferring particular information to the external electronic device or a device management application for managing the external electronic device.

For example the notification relay application may include a function of transferring notification information generated in other applications for example the SMS MMS application the e mail application the health care application the environmental information application or the like of the electronic device to an external electronic device . Additionally or alternately the notification relay application may for example receive notification information from the external electronic device and may provide the received notification information to a user. For example the device management application may manage for example install delete or update functions for at least some of the external electronic device communicating with the electronic device for example turning on off the external electronic device itself or some component elements thereof or adjusting brightness or resolution of a display applications operating in the external electronic device or services for example a telephone call service or a message service provided from the external electronic device .

According to various embodiments the application may include applications which are designated according to a property for example a type of electronic device of the external electronic device . For example in cases where the external electronic device is an MP3 player the application may be related to the reproduction of music. Similarly in cases where the external electronic device is a mobile medical appliance the application may be related to health care. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the application may include at least one of an application designated in the electronic device and an application received from a server or the external electronic device .

The input output interface may transfer instructions or data input from a user through an input output device for example a sensor a keyboard or a touch screen to the processor the memory the communication interface or the cell reselection module through for example the bus . For example the input output interface may provide to the processor data regarding a user s touch input through a touch screen. Furthermore through the input output device for example a speaker or a display the input output interface may output instructions or data received from the processor the memory the communication interface or the cell reselection module through for example the bus . For example the input output interface may output voice data processed through the processor to a user through a speaker.

The display may display various pieces of information for example multimedia data text data or the like to a user.

The communication interface may connect communication between the electronic device and the external electronic device or the server . For example the communication interface may be connected to a network through wireless or wired communication to communicate with the external device. The wireless communication may include at least one of for example Wi Fi Bluetooth BT near field communication NFC GPS and cellular communication for example long term evolution LTE LTE advanced LTE A code division multiple access CDMA wideband CDMA WCDMA universal mobile telecommunications system UMTS wireless broadband WiBro global system for mobile communications GSM or the like. . The wired communication may include for example at least one of universal serial bus USB high definition multimedia interface HDMI Recommended Standard 232 RS 232 and plain old telephone service POTS .

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the network may be a telecommunication network. The communication network may include at least one of a computer network the Internet the Internet of things and a telephone network. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure a protocol for example a transport layer protocol a data link layer protocol or a physical layer protocol for communication between the electronic device and the external electronic device may be supported by at least one of the application the application programming interface the middleware the kernel and the communication interface .

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the cell reselection module may process at least a part of information obtained from other component elements for example the processor the memory the input output interface the communication interface or the like and provide the processed information to a user in various ways. For example the cell reselection module may control at least some functions of the electronic device while in an idle state so as to execute 1 cell measurement for searching for cells that are not included in a neighbor cell list provided from a network hereinafter referred to as detected cell measurement 2 management of the detected cells and 3 execution of reselection on the detected cells.

The measurement module may measure reception powers of cells included in a neighbor cell list or a detected cell list. For example the measurement module may measure a pilot signal transmitted from a base station to an electronic device a reception power of a reference signal or a signal to interference ratio for example Ec Io . The Ec Io refers to a ratio of pilot signal energy accumulated during one PN chip period to a total power spectrum density in a reception band and may represent a reception sensitivity of an electronic device. The neighbor cell list may be information provided to a mobile terminal through a system information block SIB . The detected cell list may include cells remaining after excluding the cells included in the neighbor cell list from those cells detected through a cell search procedure of the mobile terminal as described in greater detail below with respect to .

The determining module may determine cell reselection based on a cell measurement result from the measurement module . For example when a reception level of a serving cell is greater than a first threshold value an electronic device may stay in the serving cell. Otherwise cell reselection may be triggered for selecting another cell. A condition for triggering the cell reselection may be transferred through system information for example SIB 3 and 4 .

In addition the determining module may determine a measurement for detecting other cells excluding the cells in the neighbor cell list hereinafter referred to as detected cell measurement . For example the determining module may execute the detected cell measurement when at least one condition is satisfied from among a condition hereinafter referred to as a first condition in which a signal quality of a serving cell for example Ec Io or received signal code power RSCP drops to less than or equal to a second threshold value a condition hereinafter referred to as a second condition in which at least one cell included in a neighbor cell list is not detected during a predetermined period of time or during a predetermined number of measurements and a condition hereinafter referred to as a third condition in which a serving cell is changed.

The second threshold value for determining whether to execute the detected cell measurement may be equal to or different from the first threshold value for determining cell reselection. In addition the second threshold value may be broadcasted from a base station to the electronic device as system information in the same manner as the first threshold value or may be a predetermined value and may not need to be broadcasted from a base station to the electronic device. Desirably the second threshold value may be determined to be a value that is greater than the first threshold value and is predetermined in the electronic device. In addition the second threshold value may be set to be identical or different for each terminal.

The cell selection control module may control cell reselection based on a result of the determination of the determining module . In addition when triggering for the cell reselection occurs the cell selection control module may select a cell that satisfies cell reselection criteria from the neighbor cell list or the detected cell list. Parameters required for the cell reselection may be determined based on system information broadcasted from a corresponding cell. Alternatively when reselection parameters for cells included in the detected cell list are not received from the corresponding cells reselection parameters of cells included in the neighbor cell list may be used.

When a cell in the neighbor cell list and a cell in the detected cell list simultaneously satisfy the cell reselection criteria the cell selection control module may execute a control to preferentially reselect the cell included in the neighbor cell list.

Also when the detected cell measurement is triggered the cell selection control module may detect at least one cell through a cell search procedure of and generate and manage a list of the detected cells.

Referring to a DRX cycle or interval is divided into a wake up interval and a sleep interval . In the wake up interval a mobile terminal executes paging signal reception in a wake up state and neighbor cell measurement for cell reselection hereinafter referred to as cell measurement . In the sleep interval a supply of power and a clock are blocked to unused modules of the mobile terminal.

In the paging interval information is transmitted that indicates whether a call or data exists that mobile terminals are to receive. The mobile terminal may determine whether its paging identifier is included in the received paging information.

In the cell measurement interval reception powers of neighbor cells are measured in order to determine cell reselection criteria. For example the cell measurement may indicate a measurement of a pilot signal transmitted from a base station to an electronic device a reception power of a reference signal or a signal to interference ratio for example E I .

During the cell measurement interval measurement may be performed with respect to first cells in the neighbor cell list or second cells in the detected cell list. The neighbor cell list may include information provided to a mobile terminal through SIB 11 and 12 and the detected cell list is a list of at least one cell detected through a cell search procedure of the mobile terminal of .

For example cells included in the neighbor cell list and cells that are not included in the neighbor cell list are detected through the cell search procedure of and concurrently measurement with respect to the detected cells may be performed. In addition measurement with respect to cells included in neighbor cell lists may be performed through a cell search procedure of described in detail below.

That is when the neighbor cell list is received through SIB 11 and 12 and scrambling search related information with respect to a neighbor cell is received the mobile terminal may execute measurement with respect to cells included in the neighbor cell list based on the cell search procedure of . Conversely when information associated with any cell is not received the mobile terminal may execute cell measurement based on the cell search procedure of .

Referring to the mobile terminal searches for selects an available public land mobile network PLMN by scanning radio frequency RF channels when the mobile terminal is powered on in step .

The mobile terminal selects a cell having the strongest signal from among cells in the PLMN in step and camps on the selected cell in step . While in the camp on state the mobile terminal may monitor related system information or execute a measurement for example cell measurement required for a cell reselection evaluation process. The camp on state is described in greater detail below with reference to .

The mobile terminal determines whether cell reselection is required based on a cell measurement in step . For example the mobile terminal may determine whether a cell exists that has a better channel state than the cell on which the mobile terminal currently camps.

When cell reselection is not required the mobile terminal returns to step and continues to camp on the previously selected cell. When cell reselection is required the mobile terminal reselect a cell having a better channel and camps on the reselected cell in step .

Referring to the mobile terminal enters an idle mode or state when an incoming out going call and transmitted received data does not exist in step .

When the mobile terminal is not in the wake up interval of the DRX cycle the mobile terminal maintains a sleep state and continues to perform step .

When the mobile terminal is in the wake up interval of the DRX cycle the mobile terminal executes paging reception and first cell measurement in step . For example the first cell measurement may be a measurement of common pilot channel CPICH Ec Io or CPICH received signal code power RSCP of a serving cell or a cell included in a neighbor cell list. The first measurement may be performed during a predetermined period of time or may be performed as many as a predetermined number of times.

The mobile terminal determines whether to execute detected cell measurement based on the first cell measurement in step . That is the mobile terminal detects cells that are not included in the neighbor cell list through a cell search procedure of and determines whether to execute measurement with respect to the detected cells.

For example when at least one of the following conditions is satisfied the mobile terminal executes detected cell measurement hereinafter referred to as second cell measurement with respect to a cell that is not included in the neighbor cell list through the cell search procedure of in operation . Conversely when the following conditions are not satisfied the mobile terminal executes cell measurement for example the first cell measurement with respect to cells included in the neighbor cell list through a cell search procedure of in step .

Condition 1. A quality of a serving cell for example CPICH Ec Io or CPICH RSCP drops to less than or equal to a threshold value Q serv .

Condition 2. A cell in a neighbor cell list is not detected during a predetermined period of time T detected .

When at least one of the conditions is satisfied the detected cell measurement may be performed in step during a T initial time and as many as N initial times.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure during the cell search procedure of cells included in a neighbor cell list and cells that are not included in the neighbor cell list may be detected.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the cell search procedure of may be performed with respect to only the detected cells and may not be performed for cells included in the neighbor cell list.

In step it is determined whether cells that are not included in the neighbor cell list are detected through the second cell measurement. When cells that are not included in the neighbor cell list are detected through the second cell measurement the mobile terminal adds the detected cells to a corresponding list in step . For example the mobile terminal may add the detected cells to the neighbor cell list or may generate and manage a separate list of cells for example a detected cell list .

The mobile terminal determines whether a parameter associated with reselection with respect to the detected cells exists in step .

When a parameter associated with reselection with respect to the detected cells does not exist the mobile terminal obtains a parameter associated with reselection with respect to the detected cells. For example the mobile terminal receives system information broadcasted from the detected cell so as to obtain a parameter associated with the cell reselection. For example the parameter may be a parameter for determining a rank of each cell.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure a procedure of obtaining the parameter associated with the cell reselection may be deferrable until the cell reselection criteria are satisfied. Also the cells included in the detected cell list may be measured periodically together with the cells included in the neighbor cell list until the cell reselection procedure is performed.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure a parameter associated with reselection of the detected cells may be replaced with a parameter used for a cell included in the neighbor cell list.

Upon execution of cell measurement based on the neighbor cell list in step upon a determination that a cell is not detected in step upon a determination that the detected cell reselection parameter exits in step and upon obtaining the detected cell reselection parameter in step the mobile terminal proceeds with step . In step the mobile terminal determines ranks of the cells included in the neighbor cell list or the detected cell list using a parameter associated with the cell reselection.

The mobile terminal determines whether a candidate cell that satisfies the cell reselection criteria is detected in step .

When the candidate cell that satisfies the cell reselection criteria is not detected the mobile terminal returns to step .

When the candidate cell that satisfies the cell reselection criteria is detected the mobile terminal determines whether the candidate cell is included in the detected cell list in step . Alternatively the mobile terminal may determine whether the candidate cell is a cell that is added to the neighbor cell list.

When it is determined that the candidate cell is not included in the detected cell list the mobile terminal executes cell reselection based on a system information block SIB for a neighbor cell in step .

When it is determined that the candidate cell is included in the detected cell list it is determined whether Condition 4 and Condition 5 are both satisfied in step .

Q penalty a condition for assigning a cell in a neighboring cell list a priority which may be greater than or equal to 0.

Conditions 4 and 5 relate to the case in which a signal quality of a detected cell is greater than a predetermined threshold value.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure conditions 4 and 5 relate to the case in which a signal quality of a neighbor cell that satisfies cell reselection criteria is less than or equal to a predetermined threshold value.

When Condition 4 and Condition 5 are not satisfied the mobile terminal executes cell reselection based on an SIB for the neighbor cell in step .

Conversely when condition 4 and condition 5 are satisfied the mobile terminal executes cell reselection based on an SIB for a detected cell in step .

That is when cells that satisfy the cell reselection criteria are a cell included in the neighbor cell list and a cell in the detected cell list the mobile terminal determines to preferentially reselect the cell in the neighbor cell list. When a threshold value is not satisfied even though the cell in the neighbor cell list is prioritized the cell in the detected cell list may be reselected.

Referring to the cell search procedure includes performing slot synchronization in step . Frame synchronization and code group identification are performed in step . Scrambling code identification is performed in step . The slot synchronization may obtain slot synchronization by matching a first synchronization code and a received signal using a matched filter. The frame synchronization and code group identification may obtain frame synchronization by using a second synchronization code and identifying a code group. Scrambling code identification may determine a scrambling code using symbol by symbol correlation.

Through the cell search procedure of a cell that is not included in a neighbor cell list may be detected in addition to a cell included in the neighbor cell list.

Referring to the cell search procedure includes performing slot synchronization in step . Scrambling code identification is performed in step . The slot synchronization may obtain slot synchronization by matching a first synchronization code and a received signal using a matched filter. When information associated with a scrambling code is obtained with respect to cells of the neighbor cell list through the system information frame synchronization and code group identification may be omitted.

Therefore through the simple cell search procedure of measurement is performed with respect to the cells of the neighbor cell list and cells that are not included in the neighbor cell list may not be detected.

The AP may control a plurality of hardware or software component elements connected to the AP by driving an operating system or an application program and may execute data processing and calculation with respect to various types of data including multimedia data. The AP may be embodied as for example a system on chip SoC . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the AP may further include a graphic processing unit GPU .

The communication module for example the communication interface may execute data transmission and reception in communication between the electronic device for example the electronic device and other electronic devices for example the external electronic device or the server connected over a network. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the communication module includes a cellular module a Wi Fi module a BT module a GPS module an NFC module and a RF module .

The cellular module may provide a voice call a video call an SMS service an Internet service and the like through a communication network for example LTE LTE A CDMA WCDMA UMTS WiBro GSM or the like . Furthermore the cellular module may distinguish and authenticate electronic devices within a communication network using for example a SIM for example the SIM card . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the cellular module may perform at least some functions that the AP may provide. For example the cellular module may perform at least some of the multimedia control functions.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the cellular module may include a communication processor CP . Furthermore the cellular module may be embodied as for example an SoC. Although the component elements such as the cellular module for example a communication processor the memory the power management module or the like are illustrated as separate components from the AP in the AP may include at least some of the above described component elements for example cellular module according to an embodiment of the present disclosure.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the AP or the cellular module for example a communication processor may load into a volatile memory an instruction or data received from at least one of a non volatile memory and other component elements connected thereto and may process the loaded instruction or data. Further the AP or the cellular module may store in a non volatile memory data received from at least one other component element or generated by at least one other component element.

Each of the Wi Fi module the BT module the GPS module and the NFC module may include for example a processor for processing data transmitted or received through a corresponding module. Although the cellular module the WiFi module the BT module the GPS module and the NFC module are illustrated as separate blocks in at least some for example two or more of the cellular module the WiFi module the BT module the GPS module and the NFC module may be included in one integrated circuit IC or one IC package according to an embodiment of the present disclosure. For example at least some of the processors corresponding respectively to the cellular module the Wi Fi module the BT module the GPS module and the NFC module for example a CP corresponding to the cellular module and a Wi Fi processor corresponding to the Wi Fi module may be embodied as one SoC.

The RF module may transmit receive data for example an RF signal. Although not illustrated in the drawing the RF module may include for example a transceiver a power amp module PAM a frequency filter a low noise amplifier LNA or the like. Furthermore the RF module may further include a component for transmitting receiving electronic waves over a free air space in wireless communication for example a conductor a conducting wire or the like. Although it is illustrated that the cellular module the Wi Fi module the BT module the GPS module and the NFC module share one RF module in at least one of the cellular module the Wi Fi module the BT module the GPS module and the NFC module may transmit receive an RF signal through a separate RF module according to an embodiment of the present disclosure.

The SIM card may be inserted into a slot formed in a particular portion of an electronic device. The SIM card may include unique identification information for example an integrated circuit card identifier ICCID or subscriber information for example an international mobile subscriber identity IMSI .

The memory for example the memory includes at least one of an embedded memory and an external memory . The embedded memory may include at least one of a volatile memory for example a dynamic random access memory DRAM a static random access memory SRAM a synchronous DRAM SDRAM and the like and a non volatile memory for example a one time programmable read only memory OTPROM a programmable read only memory PROM an erasable PROM EPROM an electrically EPROM EEPROM a mask read only memory ROM a flash ROM a NAND flash memory a NOR flash memory and the like .

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the embedded memory may be a solid state drive SSD . The external memory may further include a flash drive for example a compact flash CF a secure digital SD a micro SD a mini SD an extreme digital xD a memory stick or the like. The external memory may be functionally connected with the electronic device through various interfaces. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the electronic device may further include a storage device or a storage medium such as for example a hard disk drive.

The sensor module may measure a physical quantity or detect an operation state of the electronic device and may convert the measured or detected information into an electric signal. The sensor module includes for example at least one of a gesture sensor A a gyro sensor B an atmospheric pressure sensor C a magnetic sensor D an acceleration sensor E a grip sensor F a proximity sensor G a color sensor H for example red green and blue RGB sensor a biometric sensor a temperature humidity sensor J an illumination sensor K and an ultra violet UV sensor M. Additionally or alternatively the sensor module may include for example an e nose sensor an electromyography EMG sensor an electroencephalogram EEG sensor an electrocardiogram ECG sensor an Infrared IR sensor an iris sensor a fingerprint sensor and the like. The sensor module may further include a control circuit for controlling one or more sensors included therein.

The input device includes at least one of a touch panel a digital pen sensor a key and an ultrasonic input device . The touch panel may recognize a touch input for example in at least one of a capacitive scheme a resistive scheme an infrared scheme and an ultrasonic scheme. Further the touch panel may further include a control circuit. The capacitive touch panel may be able to recognize physical contact or proximity. The touch panel may further include a tactile layer. In this instance the touch panel may provide a tactile response to a user.

The digital pen sensor may be implemented for example using a method identical or similar to receiving a user s touch input or using a separate recognition sheet. The key may include for example a physical button an optical key or a keypad. The ultrasonic input device may identify data by detecting a sound wave with a microphone of the electronic device through an input unit generating an ultrasonic signal and may perform wireless recognition. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the electronic device may receive a user input from an external device for example a network a computer or a server that is connected with the electronic device by using the communication module .

The display for example the display includes at least one of a panel a hologram device and a projector . The panel may be for example a liquid crystal display LCD an active matrix organic light emitting diode AM OLED or the like. The panel may be embodied to be for example flexible transparent or wearable. The panel may be integrated with the touch panel as a single module. The hologram device may show a stereoscopic image in the air using interference of light. The projector may project light onto a screen to display an image. The screen may be located for example inside or outside the electronic device . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the display may further include a control circuit for controlling the panel the hologram device or the projector .

The interface includes at least one of an HDMI a USB an optical interface and a D subminiature D sub . The interface may be included in for example the communication interface illustrated in . Additionally or alternatively the interface may include for example a mobile high definition link MHL interface an SD multi media card MMC interface or an infrared data association IrDA standard interface.

The audio module may bilaterally convert a sound and an electric signal. At least some component elements of the audio module may be included in for example the input output interface illustrated in . The audio module may process sound information input or output through for example a speaker a receiver earphones the microphone or the like.

The camera module is a device for capturing a still image or a video and according to an embodiment of the present disclosure may include one or more image sensors for example a front sensor or a rear sensor a lens an image signal processor ISP or a flash for example an LED or xenon lamp .

The power management module may manage power of the electronic device . Although not illustrated the power management module may include for example a power management integrated circuit PMIC a charger IC or a battery gauge.

The PMIC may for example be mounted in an IC or an SoC semiconductor. The charging methods may be classified into wired charging and wireless charging. The charger IC may charge a battery and may prevent an over voltage or over current from flowing from a charger. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the charger IC may include a charger IC for at least one of the wired charging method and the wireless charging method. Examples of the wireless charging may include magnetic resonance charging magnetic induction charging and electromagnetic charging and an additional circuit such as a coil loop a resonance circuit a rectifier and the like may be added for the wireless charging.

The battery gauge may measure for example a residual quantity of the battery or a voltage a current or a temperature during the charging. The battery may store or generate electricity and may supply power to the electronic device using the stored or generated electricity. The battery may include for example a rechargeable battery or a solar battery.

The indicator may display a specific status of the electronic device or a part for example the AP of electronic device for example a boot up status a message status a charging status and the like. The motor may convert an electrical signal into a mechanical vibration. Although not illustrated the electronic device may include a processing device for example a GPU for supporting a mobile TV. The processing device for supporting a mobile TV may process media data according to standards such as for example digital multimedia broadcasting DMB digital video broadcasting DVB a media flow or the like.

Each of the above described elements of the electronic device according embodiments to the present disclosure may include one or more components and the name of the relevant element may change depending on the type of electronic device. The electronic device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure may include at least one of the aforementioned elements. Some elements may be omitted or other additional elements may be further included in the electronic device. Further some of the components of the electronic device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure may be combined to form a single entity and thus may equivalently execute functions of the corresponding elements prior to the combination.

The term module as used in various embodiments of the present disclosure may refer to for example a unit including one of hardware software and firmware or a combination of two or more of the hardware software and firmware. The term module may be interchangeably used with terms such as unit logic logical block component or circuit. The module may be the smallest unit of an integrated component or a part thereof. The module may be the smallest unit that performs one or more functions or a part thereof. The module may be mechanically or electronically implemented. For example the module according to various embodiments of the present disclosure may include at least one of an application specific integrated circuit ASIC chip field programmable gate arrays FPGAs and a programmable logic device for performing operations which have been known or are to be developed hereafter.

According to various embodiments at least a part of a device for example modules or functions thereof or a method for example operations according to the various embodiments of the present disclosure may be embodied by for example a command stored in a computer readable storage medium in a form of a programming module. When the command is performed by one or more processors for example the processor the one or more processors may execute a function corresponding to the command. The computer readable storage medium may be for example the memory . At least a part of the programming module may be implemented for example performed by for example the processor . At least a part of the programming module may include for example a module a program a routine a set of instructions and or a process for performing one or more functions.

The computer readable recording medium may include magnetic media such as for example a hard disc a floppy disc and a magnetic tape optical media such as for example a compact disc read only memory CD ROM and a digital versatile disc DVD magneto optical media such as for example a floptical disk and hardware devices specifically configured to store and execute program commands such as for example a ROM a RAM and a flash memory. In addition the program instructions may include high class language codes which can be performed in a computer by using an interpreter as well as machine codes made by a compiler. The aforementioned hardware device may be configured to operate as one or more software modules in order to perform the operation of various embodiments of the present disclosure and vice versa.

A programming module according to embodiments of the present disclosure may include at least one of the described component elements a few of the component elements may be omitted or additional component elements may be included. Operations performed by a module a programming module or other component elements according to various embodiments of the present disclosure may be performed sequentially in parallel repeatedly or in a heuristic manner. Furthermore some operations may be performed in a different order or may be omitted or other operations may be added.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure a storage medium stores instructions and the instructions are set to enable at least one processor to execute at least one operation when the instructions are performed by the at least one processor.

As described above when a cell included in a neighbor cell list is not detected around a mobile terminal the mobile terminal detects a cell that is not included in the neighbor cell list and executes cell reselection so as to decrease the frequency of entering a state of out of service which improves paging reception performance.

Also this may decrease an inter radio access technology RAT inter frequency cell reselection frequency and thus paging reception performance may be improved.

In addition through cell reselection of a cell having a good quality the cell reselection frequency and current may be decreased.

While the disclosure has been shown and described with reference to certain embodiments thereof it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes in form and detail may be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope of the disclosure as defined by the appended claims.

