---

title: Mobile device and method of operating same to interface content provider website
abstract: In a mobile device, a method of interacting with a first social networking website by way of a network includes communicating indirectly with the first social networking website by interacting with an intermediate web server by way of the network, the intermediate web server in turn being in communication with the first social networking website. The method further includes determining, based at least in part upon a user input received at the mobile device, that the mobile device should communicate directly with the first social networking website in a manner not involving the intermediate web server. The method also includes communicating with the first social networking website directly in the manner not involving the intermediate web server. In another embodiment, the method relates to interacting with a plurality of social networking sites including a first social networking website and a second social networking site.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09450994&OS=09450994&RS=09450994
owner: Google Technology Holdings LLC
number: 09450994
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150421
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 12 878 839 filed on Sep. 9 2010 which claims the benefit of each of the following U.S. provisional patent applications each of which is hereby incorporated by reference herein U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 241 291 titled Mobile Device and Method of Operating Same to Interface Content Provider Website and filed on Sep. 10 2009 U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 241 301 titled Method and System for Intermediating Content Provider Website and Mobile Device and filed on Sep. 10 2009 U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 241 129 titled Method of Exchanging Photos With Interface Content Provider Website and filed on Sep. 10 2009 U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 241 370 titled System Server and Mobile Device for Content Provider Website Interaction and Method Therefore and filed on Sep. 10 2009 and U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 241 144 titled Method Generating a Message for One or More Social Networking Websites and filed on Sep. 10 2009.

The present invention relates to communications involving mobile devices and more particularly to communications between such mobile devices and internet content provider websites.

Content provider websites CPWs such as social networking websites SNWs news feeds music and photograph websites as well as other types of websites such as business to business b2b or business to consumer b2c websites are interactive websites that allow for the downloading and or uploading e.g. posting of various forms of data such as news weather personal and or business information pictures videos and songs and thereby facilitate the creation and maintaining of interpersonal connections among persons and groups of persons. The uploading of data to a CPW by one user can allow other users to access and or download the uploaded data. Typically a SNW provides the architecture for countless users to create respective personal or professional spaces that respectively identify the respective users and allow uploaded data to be associated with the respective spaces.

CPWs can be in communication with users who are operating any of a variety of different types of devices which are in contact with the CPWs often by way of internet type networks. Increasingly users employ mobile devices to interact with the CPWs. As such communications activities increase there is developing an increased need for improving the quality and or user friendliness in conducting such communications activities. Further there is also developing an increased need for improving the efficiency of such communications activities to improve battery performance of mobile devices and reduce data transmissions for all devices.

It would therefore be advantageous if improvements in the form of improved mobile devices and or other devices and or improved methods for allowing mobile devices to communicate with CPWs can be provided that will help to address at least partly one or more of the aforementioned developing needs.

In at least one embodiment the present invention relates to a method in a mobile device where the method is for interacting with a first social networking website by way of a network. The method includes a communicating indirectly with the first social networking website by interacting with an intermediate web server by way of the network the intermediate web server in turn being in communication with the first social networking website and b receiving from the intermediate web server notifications and first information wherein the mobile device receives at least some of the notifications in an asynchronous manner off of the network via a push channel from the web server at times determined by the intermediate web server and wherein the mobile device receives the first information following a pull request. The method further includes c determining based at least in part upon a user input received at the mobile device that the mobile device should communicate directly with the first social networking website in a manner not involving the intermediate web server and d communicating with the first social networking website directly in the manner not involving the intermediate web server.

In another embodiment the present invention relates to a method in a mobile device where the method is for communicating with a first social networking site by way of a network and an intermediate web server. The method includes establishing a push channel over the network by which the mobile device is capable of receiving communications from the intermediate web server and receiving first information off of the network arriving from the intermediate web server the first information being communicated over the network over the push channel at a first time determined by the intermediate web server. The method additionally includes receiving second information off of the network arriving from the intermediate web server the second information being communicated at a second time wherein at least some of each of the first information and the second information has originated from the first social networking site and establishing an additional communication link over the network by which the mobile device is capable of directly communicating with the first social networking site without communicating with the intermediate web server.

Referring to a block diagram of an example communications system is shown in a simplified schematic form. As shown the communications system includes in this embodiment three mobile devices one of which is shown to be in communication via a communication link with a server which in the present embodiment is a web server . The mobile devices are respectively representative of communication devices operated by persons or users or possibly by other entities e.g. netbooks or other computers desiring or requiring communication capabilities. In some embodiments for example the mobile devices can be any of cellular telephones other wireless devices such as personal digital assistants and or devices such as laptops and desktop computers that are capable of connecting to and communicating with a network.

The communications system additionally is shown to include three content provider websites CPWs one of which is shown to be in communication with the intermediary web server via a communication link . Further a communication link is also provided that allows for that one of the mobile devices that is in communication with the web server to directly communicate with that one of the CPWs that is also in communication with the web server without the intermediation of the web server . Although only one of the mobile devices and one of the CPWs are shown in to be in communication with the web server it will be understood that depending upon the time or operational circumstance any or all of the mobile devices and CPWs can be in communication with the web server. Likewise depending upon the time or operational circumstance any of the mobile devices can enter into communication with any of the CPWs by way of direct communication links such as the link .

Although three mobile devices are shown in in other embodiments only one mobile device is present in communication with the web server or alternatively any arbitrary number of mobile devices can be in communication with the web server . Likewise although three CPWs are shown in in other embodiments only one CPW is in communication with the web server or alternatively any arbitrary number of CPWs can be in communication with the web server . Additionally any arbitrary number of mobile device s can be in communication with any arbitrary number of CPW s by way of direct communication links such as the link in other embodiments. That is is intended to be representative of any of a variety of systems employing any arbitrary number of mobile devices and any arbitrary number of CPWs that are in communication with one another either indirectly via a web server interface or directly with one another.

Depending upon the embodiment the communication links can be part of a single network or multiple networks and each link can include one or more wired and or wireless communication pathways for example landline e.g. fiber optic copper wiring microwave communication radio channel wireless path intranet internet and or World Wide Web communication pathways which themselves can employ numerous intermediary hardware and or software devices including for example numerous routers etc. . In addition a variety of communication protocols and methodologies can be used to conduct the communications via the communication links between the mobile devices web server and CPWs including for example transmission control protocol internet protocol TCP IP extensible messaging and presence protocol XMPP file transfer protocol FTP etc. In other embodiments other types of communication links for facilitating the transfer of signals between the plurality of mobile devices and the CPWs can be utilized as well. Although in the present embodiment the communication links network and server are each discussed as being web based in other embodiments the links network and server can assume various non web based forms.

As will be discussed below in more detail with regard to the web server is configured to serve as an intermediary between the mobile devices and the CPWs . Various types of communications between the mobile devices and CPWs are passed through processed and or monitored by the web server including for example communications involving the uploading and downloading of files e.g. photos music videos text entries etc. blog postings and messaging e.g. short Message Service SMS Multimedia Messaging Service MMS and Instant Messaging IM . The CPWs are generally intended to encompass a variety of interactive websites that allow for the downloading and uploading e.g. posting of various forms of data such as personal and or business information pictures videos and songs and thereby facilitate the creation and maintaining of interpersonal connections among persons and groups of persons. Examples of CPWs include for example Facebook MySpace hi5 LinkedIn and Twitter . For purposes of the present invention CPWs can also be understood to encompass various other types of websites e.g. business to business or business to consumer websites that while not focused entirely or predominantly upon social networking nevertheless also include social networking type features. Other content provider websites include sources of RSS or other news feeds photograph services such as Picasa or Photobucket and music services such as LastFM .

Referring to there is provided a block diagram illustrating example internal components of a mobile device such as the mobile device in accordance with the present embodiment. As shown in the components include one or more wireless transceivers a processor e.g. a microprocessor microcomputer application specific integrated circuit etc. a memory portion one or more output devices and one or more input devices . In at least some embodiments a user interface is present that comprises one or more output devices such as a display and one or more input device such as a keypad or touch sensor. The internal components can further include a component interface to provide a direct connection to auxiliary components or accessories for additional or enhanced functionality. The internal components preferably also include a power supply such as a battery for providing power to the other internal components while enabling the mobile device to be portable. All of the internal components can be coupled to one another and in communication with one another by way of one or more internal communication links e.g. an internal bus .

Each of the wireless transceivers utilizes a wireless technology for communication which can include for example but are not limited to cellular based communication technologies such as analog communications using AMPS digital communications using CDMA TDMA GSM iDEN GPRS EDGE etc. and next generation communications using UMTS WCDMA LTE IEEE 802.16 etc. or variants thereof or peer to peer or ad hoc communication technologies such as HomeRF radio frequency Bluetooth and IEEE 802.11 a b g or n or other wireless communication technologies such as infrared technology. In the present embodiment the wireless transceivers include a cellular transceiver and a wireless local area network WLAN transceiver although in other embodiments only one of these types of wireless transceivers and possibly neither of these types of wireless transceivers and or other types of wireless transceivers is present. By virtue of the use of the wireless transceivers the mobile device is capable of communicating both with the CPW by way of the communication link and also with the web server and thus indirectly again with the CPW by way of the communication link .

example operation of the wireless transceivers in conjunction with others of the internal components of the mobile device can take a variety of forms and can include for example operation in which upon reception of wireless signals the internal components detect communication signals and the transceiver demodulates the communication signals to recover incoming information such as voice and or data transmitted by the wireless signals. After receiving the incoming information from the transceiver the processor formats the incoming information for the one or more output devices . Likewise for transmission of wireless signals the processor formats outgoing information which may or may not be activated by the input devices and conveys the outgoing information to one or more of the wireless transceivers for modulation to communication signals. The wireless transceiver s convey the modulated signals by way of wireless and possibly wired as well communication links to other devices such as the web server and one or more of the CPWs as well as possibly to other devices such as a cell tower access point or another server or any of a variety of remote device .

Depending upon the embodiment the input and output devices of the internal components can include a variety of visual audio and or mechanical outputs. For example the output device s can include one or more visual output devices such as a liquid crystal display and light emitting diode indicator one or more audio output devices such as a speaker alarm and or buzzer and or one or more mechanical output devices such as a vibrating mechanism. The visual output devices among other things can include a video screen. Likewise by example the input device s can include one or more visual input devices such as an optical sensor for example a camera one or more audio input devices such as a microphone and one or more mechanical input devices such as a flip sensor keyboard keypad selection button navigation cluster touch pad touchscreen capacitive sensor motion sensor and switch. Actions that can actuate one or more of the input devices can include not only the physical pressing actuation of buttons or other actuators but can also include for example opening the mobile device unlocking the device moving the device to actuate a motion moving the device to actuate a location positioning system and operating the device.

As shown in the internal components of the mobile device also can include one or more of various types of sensors . The sensors can include for example proximity sensors a light detecting sensor an ultrasound transceiver or an infrared transceiver touch sensors altitude sensors a location circuit that can include for example a Global Positioning System GPS receiver a triangulation receiver an accelerometer a tilt sensor a gyroscope or any other information collecting device that can identify a current location or user device interface carry mode of the mobile device .

The memory portion of the internal components can encompass one or more memory devices of any of a variety of forms e.g. read only memory random access memory static random access memory dynamic random access memory etc. and can be used by the processor to store and retrieve data. The data that is stored by the memory portion can include but need not be limited to operating systems applications and informational data. Each operating system includes executable code that controls basic functions of the communication device such as interaction among the various components included among the internal components communication with external devices via the wireless transceivers and or the component interface and storage and retrieval of applications and data to and from the memory portion . Each application includes executable code that utilizes an operating system to provide more specific functionality for the communication devices such as file system service and handling of protected and unprotected data stored in the memory portion . Informational data is non executable code or information that can be referenced and or manipulated by an operating system or application for performing functions of the communication device.

Referring next to additional example components of the web server of are shown in more detail. As shown the web server includes a memory portion a processor portion in communication with that memory portion and one or more input output I O interfaces not shown for interfacing the communication links with the processor . The processor portion further includes a back end portion or Social Network Processor and a front end portion . The back end portion communicates with the CPWs shown in dashed lines via the communication link and the front end portion communicates with the mobile device also shown in dashed lines via the communication link .

As discussed in further detail below in at least some embodiments the back end portion supports pull communications with CPWs such as the CPW . The pull communications can for example be implemented using Representation State Transfer REST architecture of the type typical to the web and as such the back end portion is configured to generate requests for information to be provided to the back end portion from the CPWs such as the CPW at times circumstances determined by the web server in response to which the CPWs search for and provide back to the web server requested data. Also as discussed in further detail below in at least some embodiments the front end portion establishes a push channel in conjunction with mobile devices such as the mobile device .

In at least some such embodiments the push channel allows the front end portion to provide notifications from the web server generated by the front end portion to the mobile device at times circumstances determined by the web server . The notifications can be indicative of information content that is available to be provided to the mobile device. The mobile device in turn is able to respond to the notifications in manner s deemed appropriate by the mobile device. Such responses often but not necessarily always constitute requests that some or all of the available information content be provided from the front end portion of the intermediary web server to the mobile device.

Referring to a flowchart is provided showing example steps of operation of the web server of particularly when interacting with and intermediating communications between mobile devices and CPWs such as the mobile devices and CPWs shown in . Upon beginning the process represented by the flowchart of at a start step the web server begins operation at a step by establishing a communication link with a mobile device such as the communication link with the mobile device of . As will be described in further detail below the establishment of the communication link with the mobile device can depending upon the embodiment actually involve the establishment of multiple communication links that can exist in parallel or at different times with that mobile device.

In some such cases the multiple communication links are of different types for example involving a push channel or communication protocols other than push channels. Also while the establishment of a communication link with a mobile device typically involves establishing a circuit switch connection with a base station and thus the communication device providing identification information to the base station by which the mobile device identifies itself to the telecommunication network the connection to the web server can also be via an internet protocol IP connection or a point to point P2P telecommunications connection between the base station with which the mobile device is communicating and a load balancer firewall and also can involve the providing of a response signal from the web server back from to the mobile device by which the mobile device recognizes that it is in contact with the web server.

Upon completion of the step at a step the web server further establishes a communication link with a CPW such as the communication link with the CPW shown in . Establishment of the communication link at the step can involve for example the providing of one or more web services calls and or other techniques. Subsequent to the step the web server maintains ongoing communications which can be but need not be periodic communications with the CPW and at one or more times obtains pulls information from the CPW. The information obtained from the CPW can include any of a variety of different types of information including for example information concerning contacts or friends including a contacts list new friends or updated contacts special messages news happenings and other types of information including possibly files such as image files or text files or other forms of data. Upon obtaining the information at the step the web server then processes the obtained information at a step .

Referring additionally to example substeps corresponding to the steps and of are shown in accordance with one embodiment. As shown the step the obtaining step can be understood as encompassing several substeps beginning with a start substep and further including three additional substeps and . More particularly in the substep the web server sends a pull signal to the CPW and at the substep information is received back from the CPW at the back end portion of the web server. After the information is received at the back end portion at the step this information is then pushed from the back end portion to the front end portion of the web server .

Further as shown in the step the processing step can include in one embodiment several substeps beginning at a substep prior to ending at a substep shows the substeps corresponding to the step as being a continuation of the substeps corresponding to the step . More particularly at the substep upon the front end portion of the web server receiving the information pushed from the back end portion at the substep that information is then placed into a common transfer queue. Next at a substep the information can optionally be compressed. Further at a substep the information can optionally be converted into a different format for example a binary format. As additionally represented by a block shown in dashed lines the format conversion occurring at the substep can include a removal of specific formatting information that was provided by the CPW so as to standardize the formatting of the information and remove site specific format information though not the source identity or otherwise to modify the formatting of the information to be of a uniform or universal format provided to the mobile device regardless of the CPW formatting that was the source of the information.

Next at a substep the information is filtered based upon whether it is high importance or low importance information. As further represented by substeps and shown in dashed lines this filtering operation can involve further determinations. Namely as shown at a substep the web server can determine whether the information concerns friends new friends special messages news or happenings. If so then at a substep that information is assigned a low level status. However if the information does not fall into one of those groupings then the filtering process proceeds to the substep at which the web server determines whether the information concerns status updates. If it does then a high level status is assigned to the information at the substep . In the present example embodiment if the information is determined not to concern status updates at the substep then the process again returns to the substep . It will be recognized that the web server can determine whether the information is a status update for the user and if it is treat the information as high level or high priority and if it is not treat the information as low level or low priority. Other types of information may be also be treated as high priority though it is desirable to restrict the number of messages that result in increased activity for the communication device.

Upon completion of the filtering substep the process then advances to a substep in which the web server specifically the front end portion of the web server determines one or more differences that may exist between the information that was obtained at the step from the CPW and previous information that was received earlier from the same CPW. In the present embodiment it is only such difference information that is ultimately transmitted back to the mobile device . As already noted the substeps represented by corresponding to the step of end at the substep . It will be recognized that step can advantageously occur in the back end portion between steps and in which case the information will only be further processed in the web server if there is a change in CPW information from the previous time content was pulled for the particular subscriber. This will free up server resources to continue to pull information from the CPW for the user of device or other users who use the intermediary web server and the CPW.

Returning to upon the completion of the step the web server considers whether one or more portions of the processed information are of high importance or not of high importance e.g. of low importance or possibly of medium importance or some other importance level . If it is determined that the processed information is of high importance then at a step the front end portion of the web server sends the high importance processed information to the mobile device via the push channel established across the communication link . This occurs immediately at the time determined by the web server as made possible by way of using the push channel. If at the step it is determined that the processed information is not of high importance then the sending of the processed information can be delayed until another more appropriate time to thereby reduce the communication activity between the device and server and thus reduce the battery drain on the device. Thus at a step the web server waits for an appropriate time to send the processed information to the mobile device . Then once an appropriate time has occurred at a step the information is then sent to the mobile device by the web server .

The appropriate time at which low importance processed information is sent by the web server to the mobile device can be based upon various considerations. For example in some embodiments such appropriate times are merely periodically occurring times at which the mobile device polls the web server for information. Such polling typically involves the repeated sending of inquiry signals from the mobile device to the web server . In other cases an appropriate time occurs when the particular circumstances have arisen. For example an appropriate time for sending low importance processed information can occur when the mobile device makes a request if additionally it is the case that by that same time the web server has determined that a certain quantity of low importance processed information has been stored for transmission to the mobile device. Although in the above description the obtaining of information by the web server is described as involving pulling while the obtaining by the mobile device of low importance information from the web server is described as involving polling it should be understood that either pulling or polling operations and either periodic or asynchronous communications can be used by either of the web server and the mobile device respectively to obtain information from the CPW and the web server respectively depending upon the embodiment. Additionally it is envisioned that the server can be pulling information from the CPW when the mobile device is not connected to the server as a consequence of which the server will hold information until the mobile device reconnects or when enough time elapses that the server deletes the information.

Regardless of whether high importance or low importance information is sent to the mobile device at steps and respectively upon completion of these steps a series of additional steps are performed by the web server in interacting with the mobile device the CPW or additional mobile devices CPWs. More particularly in this regard upon the completion of steps and at steps information from the mobile device can be uploaded to the web server and further provided to the CPW . As shown in at the step such interaction can begin by the web server receiving identification information from the mobile device . Receipt of such identification information need not always occur for example if such identification information was already received at the step . Then at a step the web server additionally receives content information from the mobile device . Content information can include for example files such as image files or text files or other data that the user of the mobile device wishes to have uploaded to a user profile e.g. a wall existing at the CPW.

Next at a step the web server receives a command from the mobile device instructing the web server to upload the content information to the CPW . In alternate embodiments this command need not be expressly provided by the mobile device to the web server since in such embodiments it is presumed by the web server that all content information provided by the mobile device should be further uploaded to any CPW with respect to which that mobile device is associated. Further then at a step the web server sends the identification information received from the mobile device to the CPW so as to authenticate the relationship between the web server and the CPW. In response to sending this identification information typically a token is received back from the CPW if the authentication is satisfactory as indicated by a step . As with respect to the step the steps and need not be expressly performed at this time in all embodiments particularly where such actions were taken as part of the establishment of the communication links in the step . Regardless of when the authentication occurs the authentication process allows the web server to interact with the CPW on behalf of and as a proxy of the mobile device . Assuming that proper authentication has occurred then at the step the content information is sent by the web server to the CPW .

It is envisioned that the user ID and password required for the web server to upload and download content to and from the CPW for a particular user account on the CPW can be loaded into the web server by the user when the mobile device first connects to the server and sets up the CPW on the web server. The web server will store the user ID and password in the memory and access the CPW using the user ID and password as long as the user does not change them to maintain a persistent connection with the CPW regardless of whether the mobile device is connected. It is further envisioned that the pulling of information by the web server from the CPWs can be reduced in frequency or completely paused or terminated if the mobile device does not request information from the server for a predetermined time period or if the web server queue containing content to be further downloaded to the device exceeds an age threshold and or a storage capacity threshold.

In addition to the previously described uploading process in some circumstances a user operating the mobile device will desire that the contents be uploaded to more than one of the CPWs . Such a process can be facilitated by the web server as indicated by steps of particularly where the content information has already been provided to the web server by the mobile device . More particularly as shown at the step it is determined by the web server whether a further command has been received by the web server from the mobile device instructing the web server to provide the content information to another CPW. If such a command has been received then at a next step the web server determines whether a communication link has already been established with the other CPW. If such a communication link has not already been established then the process advances to a step in which additional identification information is received from the mobile device and subsequently at a step that communication link is established between the web server and the other CPW . That is if a communication link has not already been established with the other CPW as determined at the step then in order to establish such a communication link the web server again must be provided with identification information from the mobile device allowing that web server to be authenticated in relation to that other CPW so as to operate as a proxy for the mobile device in relation to that other CPW e.g. substantially the same operations as described above in relation to the steps .

Upon the establishment of the communication link at the step or if it is determined at the step that a communication link was already established with the other CPW then the process advances to the step at which the content information is uploaded to the other CPW. Thus by virtue of the steps the content information already provided to a first CPW at the step is additionally provided to another CPW. It will be understood that although does not show immediate looping in the repeat performing of the steps the steps can be repeated numerous times in relation to numerous portions of information and more than one additional CPW. It is envisioned that the content will be provided from the mobile device in a uniform format and that the server back end portion will format the data separately and appropriately for each of the target CPWs to which the content is being uploaded.

Further with respect to upon the completion of the step or in the event it is determined by the web server at the step that no command was received then the web server additionally proceeds to determine whether the mobile device has disconnected from the web server at a step . Even though the mobile device has disconnected from the web server as a general rule the web server will still maintain its communication links with the CPWs to which it has previously entered into communications and in relation to which the web server is capable of acting as a proxy on behalf of the mobile device that has been disconnected as represented by a step . Thus the web server can continue to operate in relation to the CPWs on an ongoing basis even though the mobile device on whose behalf the web server is acting is temporarily out of communications. Consequently the web server can continue to operate to pull information from the various CPWs and can access and monitor such information over time such that when a previously disconncted mobile device is reconnected to the web server the web server is able to immediately if appropriate provide the most recent updated CPW information available.

Notwithstanding the above description and although not shown in in certain embodiments it is also possible for the mobile device to communicate an instruction to the web server that the web server cease acting on its behalf in relation to one or more of the CPWs in which case the web server will do so. Finally as also shown in both when the step has been completed or in the event that at the step it is determined that the mobile device is still connected the web server proceeds to determine if there is a need or desire to establish additional communication links with other ones of the mobile devices and or CPWs . In accordance with the present flow chart if there is no such need or desire the process ends at a step while if there is such a need or desire then the process returns to the start step .

It should be understood that notwithstanding the particular steps as shown in a variety of additional or different steps can be performed by the web server depending upon the embodiment and one or more of the particular steps shown in can be rearranged repeated or eliminated entirely depending upon the embodiment. Also some of the steps performed according to the flow chart of can be repeated on an ongoing or continuous basis simultaneously while others of the steps are performed. For example the steps relating to the obtaining and processing of information received from the CPWs and the immediate or substantially immediate sending of high importance information to the mobile device can be repeated on an ongoing or continuous basis even while other interactions such as those represented by the steps relating to the uploading of content information from the mobile device to the web server and then to one or more of the CPWs is also being conducted. Further while describes in some detail the possibility of the web server being in communication with multiple CPWs in succession or simultaneously and illustrates example interactions facilitated by the web server between a given mobile device and such one or more CPWs it should be understood that the same process can be performed at the same or substantially the same time by the web server in terms of allowing similar interactions to occur between any number of other mobile devices and such one or more CPWs.

It is envisioned that the back end portion can include a separate plug in for each CPW including respective APIs appropriate for its respective CPW. Each of the plug ins includes APIs for its respective CPW by which the plug in pulls information from the web site and reformats the information into the universal format of the mobile device client. Additionally content from the mobile device will be reformatted from the uniform format of the mobile device client program to the appropriate format specified by the CPW associated with that plug in when uploaded by the back end portion . In this way content from the mobile device can be sent in a single message having a uniform format and it will be routed as selected by the user and formatted by each of the back end portion plug ins for each of the respective CPWs to which it is targeted.

Turning to an additional flow chart is provided showing example steps of operation of the mobile device as it interacts with the web server and by virtue of this interaction is able to interact with one or more CPWs. That is is intended to illustrate example steps of operation of the mobile device that are complementary with or largely complementary with respect to a number of the steps performed by the web server as illustrated in above. Additionally as will be described further below also includes steps by which the mobile device is capable of interacting directly with one or more of the CPWs without intermediation by the web server or simultaneously along with but independent of intermediation by the web server. As shown in upon commencing operation at a start step the mobile device begins its interaction with the web server by establishing a communication link with the web server and by way of the web server thus establishing a communication link with the CPW at a step .

Referring additionally to the step can be understood as encompassing several substeps as illustrated in that Figure. As shown upon starting at a substep the mobile device activates a push channel application supported on the mobile device as indicated at a substep . Then at a substep the mobile device provides identification information to the web server . Such identification information can include for example identification codes specifying the particular mobile device e.g. a serial number model number or product reference number information relating to the identity of a user utilizing the mobile device or other coding information such as login or password codes. Next at a substep it is determined at the mobile device whether there is a desire to establish a communication link with a particular one of the CPWs via the web server. If there is no such desire at this time then the process represented by ends at a substep . Alternatively if there is a desire to establish a communication link with the CPW via the web server as can be indicated by a user providing a command to the mobile device indicating such a desire then at a substep the mobile device additionally sends a command to the web server instructing the web server to establish such a communication link.

Further at a substep the mobile device additionally sends to the web server additional web identification information allowing the web server to establish the communication link with the CPW and to act as a proxy for the mobile device in its communications with that CPW. The identification information sent at the substep in some embodiments can be the same as that of the substep in which case the substep need not be performed. Once the identification information has been provided at the substep a push channel link is established between the mobile device and the web server at a substep . Upon completion of the substep the remaining steps of the process represented by subsequent to the step can be performed as indicated by the block Return to A .

Returning to upon establishment of the communication link with the web server at the step at a step the mobile device receives high importance information from the web server via the push channel e.g. the push channel established at the substep . This information as already described with reference to in the present embodiment is provided from the web server to the mobile device in an asynchronous manner that is at times not determined by the mobile device. In addition to receiving such high importance information on an asynchronous basis as further represented by a subsequent step the mobile device can additionally send one or more inquiries to the web server regarding other information to be downloaded by the web server to the mobile device. As discussed above with reference to while high importance information can include information such as status update information other information e.g. low importance information can include information such as contact friend information new friend information contact lists photos or videos special messages news or happenings information.

The inquiries provided by the mobile device at the step can be provided on a periodic basis or at other times as determined by the mobile device. Although in the present embodiment it is envisioned that the mobile device will determine when inquiries to the web server are made that in turn determine whether information other than high importance information is communicated from the web server to the mobile device in other embodiments such inquiries and or downloading of information can occur at times determined by mutual agreement between the web server and the mobile device at times determined solely by the web server alone e.g. when the web server has determined that a sufficient amount of low importance information has been collected or at times determined by another entity or party such as a manufacturer who has programmed both devices. Regardless of whether it is inquiries from the mobile device that prompt the sending of information by the web server back to the mobile device or whether it is other triggers that prompt the sending of such information as indicated at a step eventually such other information is also received by the mobile device from the web server. While the step can be considered complementary to the step of the steps can be considered complementary to the web server operations represented by steps and particularly steps of .

Referring still to at a subsequent step the information received by the mobile device from the web server is displayed or otherwise output by the mobile device. The extent to which such displaying outputting of information occurs will depend upon the embodiment. In at least some embodiments the information is displayed output by the mobile device in a standardized manner such that CPW specific formatting information or features are not provided as part of the displayed output information. More particularly in some such embodiments CPW specific formatting information and features are redacted by the web server or in some alternate embodiments by the mobile device or the combination of both the web server and the mobile device.

In performing such redactions similar types of information found at different CPWs even if referred to in different manners by the different CPWs e.g. as information found at a posting site or instead as information found on a wall are recognized as being of similar type conceptually and based upon such recognition such information can be displayed or output in a common manner on the mobile device regardless of the origin of the information. That is given the redaction of such CPW specific formatting information or features information of the same conceptual type from different CPWs even if formatted differently at the different CPWs is nevertheless displayed a same or similar consistent manner on the mobile device regardless of the origin of that information thus facilitating a user s review of such information. It should further be noted that such information can include not only text and image data but also a wide variety of other data including data allowing for the display of interactive windows and data entry fields on the mobile device into which the user as able to enter additional information or commands that can then be sent back to the web server.

Next at a step the mobile device determines whether there is a need or desire to upload content information currently available at the mobile device to the web server and or ultimately to the CPW . The need or desire can be determined automatically by the mobile device for example based upon whether a particular type of information has been received by the mobile device from a user or other source or whether a particular event has occurred or time has passed triggering such an uploading event. Often such a need desire will occur in response to a user command provided to the mobile device . If at the step it is determined there is no such need desire then as shown the process advances to a step discussed below. However if it is determined at the step that there is such a need desire then at a step the mobile device sends the content information to the web server and at a step the mobile device additionally sends a command to the web server to upload the content information to the CPW . The steps can be understood as being generally complementary to the steps of except insofar as the identification information that is provided from the mobile device for authentication purposes as discussed with reference to step can be understood as having already been provided at the step shown in alternatively additional identification information suitable for this purpose can be provided just prior to the step .

Upon completion of the step the mobile device further determines whether there is a need desire to upload the content information to one or more additional CPWs in addition to the first CPW to which that information was already uploaded at a step . Again that need or desire can be determined based upon a variety of factors including among other things one or more instructions provided by a user of the mobile device to the mobile device. If at the step it is determined that there is no such need or desire then the process advances again to the step discussed below. However if it is determined at the step that there is such a need or desire then the process advances to a step in which an additional communication link is established between the mobile device and such additional CPW via the web server. The step can be considered complementary to the steps of and can depending upon the embodiment include substeps where the mobile device first determines whether a communication link already exists with such additional CPW and if it is determined that no such communication link already exists then sends additional identification information to the web server to establish such a communication link with such additional CPW and to allow the web server to act as a proxy for the mobile device in such communications.

Upon the establishment of the additional communication link with the additional CPW at the step then the mobile device further sends a command to the web server to upload content information to that additional CPW at a step . Performance of the step can be understood as corresponding to the step of it being further understood that the order of performance of steps and is reversible so that those steps more closely correspond to the order of steps of . Additionally with respect to upon the completion of the step it is presumed that the web server in fact uploads the content information to the additional CPW. Although not shown in some embodiments upon completion of such uploading the web server sends an indication signal back to the mobile device confirming that such uploading has occurred.

Although the above described steps of as well as the steps of envision the use of the web server as an intermediary between the mobile device and the CPWs the web server need not always intermediate such communications but rather in some circumstances the mobile device interacts directly that is directly by way of one or more networks that do not involve any web server or at least not a web server as described above with respect to one or more of the CPWs. In that regard the mobile device upon completing the step or in some cases the steps and as discussed above further determines whether there is a need or desire for the mobile device to communicate directly with one or more of the CPWs at the step .

If the mobile device determines at the step that this is not the case then the mobile device can return in its operation to a node A in response to which the process begins again at the step and proceeds onward. Assuming this to occur the mobile device thus continues to both receive information from the web server and also continues to operate to upload content information to the web server on a repeated ongoing basis. If however at the step the mobile device determines that there is a need or desire to communicate directly with the CPW then the mobile device proceeds to a step at which the mobile device establishes such a direct communication link.

Whether there is a need or desire to communication directly with the CPW can be determined based on a variety of considerations. In some circumstances the mobile device determines this automatically and as a result automatically proceeds to establish the direct communication link with the CPW . For example if a user requests more information regarding a particular topic and downloading of that information from a given CPW is best accomplished e.g. in terms of efficiency of data transfer or the like by way of direct communications with the CPW then the mobile device can attempt to connect directly to the CPW. Also it is possible in some circumstances that a user may wish to view information available at a particular CPW in the particular format associated with that CPW and not wish to view a redacted view of such information as might be provided if the information was processed by the web server en route to the mobile device. Also the determination of whether there is a need or desire to communicate directly with the CPW can be determined based upon receipt of a user command that expressly requests such communications.

The establishment of a direct communication link at the step can involve a variety of particular commands or operations by the mobile device which in some circumstances can involve receiving inputs from a user depending upon the embodiment. For example in one circumstance a user initiates the establishment of such a direct communication link by causing a browser application program to be opened and run on the mobile device and by entering a URL Universal Resource Locator for the CPW into an input field provided by the browser as a result of which the browser enters into communication with the CPW and the CPW in turn returns web pages or other information back to the browser by which the mobile device and user is able to engage in further communications with the CPW. In other embodiments the establishment of the direct communication link is an automatic process that does not involve any specific user actions.

Regardless of how the direct communication link is established upon establishment of that link then at a further step the mobile device sends and or receives information to and or from the CPW directly again without the intermediation of the web server described above . Subsequently at a step the mobile device further determines whether there is a need or desire to cease the existing communication link with the web server . If there is no such need desire then the process returns to the node A and again the step and subsequent steps are repeated. That is both direct communications without web server intermediation and indirect communications by way of the web server between the mobile device and the CPW s can continue simultaneously. However if at the step it is determined that there is a need or desire to cease server based communications then the process advances to a step at which the mobile devices communication with the web server is broken which corresponds to the step discussed above with respect to .

In the present embodiment as discussed above the web server is configured to maintain itself in communications with the CPW or sites with which it was previously in communication on behalf of the mobile device even after the communications with the mobile device have been terminated with the web server continuing to act as a proxy for the mobile device. However in other embodiments the web server s communications with the CPWs are severed when the mobile device terminates its communications with the web server. In any event subsequent to the step at a step there may be a new need or desire on the part of the mobile device to reestablish communications with the web server. As with the determinations of whether to enter into direct communications with the CPW at the step or cease communications with the web server at the step whether there is a need or desire on the part of the mobile device to reestablish communications with the web server at the step can be determined based upon any of a variety of considerations including for example user commands that trigger such activities battery power considerations etc. If at the step it is determined that server based communications should be reestablished then the process returns to the start step . If not the process represented by is ended at an end step .

Turning to respectively in further embodiments the operations performed by the web server and the mobile device can differ somewhat from those shown in . More particularly in some other embodiments rather than performing the steps between a node B and a node C shown in the web server instead operates in a different manner involving steps shown in . As shown upon proceeding from the node B rather than performing the processing step and corresponding steps shown in the web server instead performs steps and . At the step in particular the web server determines whether a change has occurred between information just obtained pulled from the CPW in the step and information previously received from that CPW at an earlier time. If change s are detected at the step then at a step the front end portion of the web server places that change information into a change list. Where these steps are performed repeatedly in relation to multiple CPWs with which the web server is in contact the change information detected in relation to each of the CPWs can be all be put into the change list which can in that case be termed a common change list.

Next at a step the front end portion of the web server determines whether the processed information is of high importance or not of high importance e.g. low importance . In performing this determination the same considerations can be taken into account as were discussed above in relation to the step of and for that reason the step is also labeled as the step in . Depending upon whether the processed information is determined to be of high importance or low importance the process then advances either to the step or the step respectively. In the step upon having determined that the processed information is of high importance e.g. the information concerns a status update the front end portion of the web server sends a notification to the mobile device via the push channel indicating that a high importance change has occurred. Likewise at the step upon having determined that the processed information is of low importance the front end portion of the web server sends a notification to the mobile device also via the push channel indicating that a low importance change has occurred.

Once the notifications have been sent in either of the steps or then at a step the front end portion of the web server at a later time can receive a request from the mobile device to send the change information itself. The request can be received at any time as determined by the mobile device . Often if the change information is of high importance the mobile device will immediately or very soon after receiving the notification at the step send the request for the information. In contrast if the change information is of low importance the mobile device will often wait until a predetermined time e.g. a periodic or non periodic polling time for such a request has been attained. For example the device may wait no more than 5 minutes to request high importance information and wait 15 30 minutes between requests to download the low importance information. In any event upon a request for transmission of the change information being received from the mobile device at the step then the requested change information is subsequently sent by the front end portion of the web server to the mobile device . In the present example it is preferable that this change information is not sent by the push channel or alternatively that only high importance change information is sent by the push channel to reduce the amount of time the mobile device is powered up to receive the change content though it is recognized that in other embodiments all of the change information can be sent via the push channel.

Upon the sending of this information at the step or if no request for information is received or at least not received within a predetermined time period at the step or if no change was detected in the information received from the CPW at the step then the process returns to the node C and thus to the step of . It will be recognized that should no content be required for uploading to the CPW the web server will typically repeatedly return to step as it will continue to pull content from the CPW independently of whether content is being uploaded to the mobile device client.

Although in the present example notifications of change information are provided in the same manner by way of the push channel at the steps and regardless of whether the change information is of high importance or of low importance this need not always be the case. In other embodiments for example a notification regarding a high importance change can be sent more promptly than or in some other manner than a notification regarding a low importance change. Further while in the present example of the sending of the change information at the step occurs at a different time than the sending of the notifications at the steps this need not always be the case. For example in one other embodiment in the event the content of high importance change information is small e.g. a text message of less than 100 characters that content can be provided along with or even serve as the notification of the high importance change. From the above description it should also be apparent that in at least some embodiments the operation of the back end portion can be largely or entirely independent from the operation of the front end portion in terms of the different portions respective communications with the CPW and the mobile device . A variety of different types of communications for example those involving pulling or polling or periodic or asynchronous communications can be employed by either end portion irrespective of the operations of the other end portion depending upon the embodiment. Thus the back end portion can continuously pull content from CPWs and send changes to the front end portion independent of what the front end portion is doing. The front end portion can likewise push to the mobile device and wait for requests to download change content or synchronize the web server and mobile device without concern to what the back end portion is doing at any particular moment.

As for the flow chart provided therein shows how in some other embodiments rather than performing the steps between the node A and a node D shown in the mobile device instead operates in a different manner involving steps . The steps performed by the mobile device shown in are particularly complementary with respect to the steps performed by the web server shown in . As shown in upon proceeding from the node A rather than performing the receiving step of the mobile device instead can receive a notification from the web server sent at one or both of the steps that one or more change s have been detected in the information provided most recently and at an earlier time from the CPW . If a notification is received at the step then at the step the mobile device determines whether the notification indicates that the change is of high or low importance.

If at the step it is determined that the change is of high importance then the mobile device at the step determines whether the high importance change information should be immediately obtained from the web server . Although in some embodiments it is always the case that high importance change information should be obtained as soon as possible in other embodiments the mobile device can still for various reasons determine that it would preferable to defer attempting to obtain that information from the web server e.g. because the mobile device is low on power . Assuming that at the step the mobile device determines that the change information should be obtained immediately then the process advances to the step at which the mobile device immediately sends a request signal to the web server requesting that the high importance change information be provided to the mobile device right away. In response at a step the mobile device ultimately receives the requested change information or at least some of that information as determined by the web server from the web server. In this regard the performing of the step complements the performing of the step of .

If alternatively at the step it is determined by the mobile device that the notification indicates that the change information is of low importance or if at the step the mobile device determines that the change information should or need not be obtained immediately then the process instead advances to the step . At the step the mobile device further determines whether an appropriate time for polling the web server for change information has occurred. Such an appropriate time can be a periodically occurring time or in other embodiments can be determined by the mobile device based upon a variety of other considerations e.g. a predetermined amount of time has elapsed since another event or a user command as been received instructing the mobile device to obtain content information from the web server .

If at the step the appropriate time for polling the web server has not yet occurred then the process can repeat that step until such time occurs or can advance to another step of the process and or possibly return to the step at a different time . If however at the step the appropriate time has occurred then the process advances to the step at which a polling request signal is sent by the mobile device to the web server . Upon the sending of that signal the process returns to the step at which the mobile device receives the requested change information. Further as shown in upon completion of the step the mobile device proceeds to perform the step in which the received information is displayed or otherwise output by the mobile device to allow for review of the information by a user of the mobile device. The step as shown can be identical or similar to the step of .

While the change information sent by the web server at the step is often of greatest interest to a user of the mobile device this change information often excludes a variety of content as well as formatting information that was originally available at the CPW prior to processing of that information by the web server. That is while the information provided by the web server can include various content such as happenings recent status information comments from others etc. and while the mobile device can also as matter of course display certain standard information as part of its user interface e.g. the name of the user the CPW with which the user is contact etc. significant amounts of content and or other information can be excluded due to the intermediation of the web server . For this reason upon the display of the change information at the step a user may decide that it would be desirable not only to obtain the change information but also to obtain other content or even formatting information. Given that a user may wish to obtain such other information the mobile device at the subsequent step further determines whether a user command to obtain other information not received from the web server at the step has been received. Such a command can be received for example when a user selects an icon displayed by the mobile device which might be displayed as part of the change information at the step .

If it is determined at the step that such a command was received then the mobile device at a step establishes a direct communication link with the CPW . This operation of establishing the direct communication link can be identical or similar to the operation associated with the step discussed above and can involve standard web based client server communications e.g. involving the input transmission of a uniform resource locator URL and or interfacing with web pages of the CPW that are designed to both establish the communication link and elicit the other information that was desired by the user. Thus upon establishment of the direct communication link at the step then at the step the other information desired by the user is received from the CPW . Upon completion of the step as well as in the event no user command was determined to have been received at the step or in the event notification from the web server was received at the step then the process returns to the node D and continues on with the step of .

In another alternate embodiment of the invention the back end portion includes a plurality of plug ins or processors each of which is associated with a respective CPW . Each plug in includes application programming interfaces APIs for its associated CPW . Each plug in uses hypertext transfer protocol HTTP to persistently pull information from its respective CPW . When changes are detected by the back end portion plug ins the changes are loaded into a queue and the front end portion pushes a notification to the mobile device . All of the plug ins in the back end portion will continue to load the queue with information formatted according to a common format that includes for example the ID of the source of the information the source CPW identification the account ID of the mobile device user device the content type the priority and the information. For status for example the format can be type STATUS MOOD STATUS AND MOOD action clear status or update status provider aggregation service account id external id friend id if the update is for a friend status text post date and time. The web server builds a unified feed for each user device or user account by combining the content pulled by all of the plug ins into a common change list for each respective device or user account . The content is built over time and each entry can be time stamped.

The following algorithm can be used for detecting a change during server sync with server sync being understood to involve syncing of the web server with a CPW by comparison client sync can be understood to involve syncing of a client such as the mobile device with the web server . The web server program maintains three numbers for each account cla w1 and w2. The cla is the change list anchor w1 is the beginning time sample of the change list window and w2 is the end time sample of the change list window. The web server stores the portion of the change list that falls inside the window w1 w2 . All changes found during a server sync i.e. the back end portion pulling from the CPW are stamped with a sync anchor equal to the current w2 i.e. before w2 is incremented by 1 . The program suspends server sync CPW size sync once the window size reaches or exceeds the maximum window size mw. Once suspended the server will resume server sync when a new client poll is received. The other variables are ca is the client anchor OFF is a flag indicating no sync activity. The values of cla w1 and w2 are updated according to the following state transition rules 

When the client polls for changes if the client anchor ca falls inside w1 w2 then a partial sync will work and the web server sends back changes that fall within ca w2 and deletes changes older than ca . At the conclusion of the sync ca will be updated. If when the client polls for changes the client anchor fell outside of w1 w2 a new full sync will occur between the web server and the client program in mobile device .

It is envisioned that server sync the back end plug ins pulling content for a particular device can be suspended for a particular mobile device account when the window size reaches mw in which case a few missed pushes notifications to the device may cause service outage for a device in the absence of client polling. It is envisioned that it may be advantageous to send pushes if there are pending changes since last w2 where pushes can be sent as long as there are pending changes since w1.

It is further envisioned that the intermediary web server described herein can be advantageously employed with the device polling manager described in U.S. provisional application No. 61 180 301 entitled A MOBILE COMPUTING DEVICE AND METHOD WITH ENHANCED POLING MANAGEMENT filed on May 21 2009 which is hereby incorporated by reference herein.

Photo uploading will now be described as an example of uploading content. The intermediary web server can be employed to optimize a process of uploading photos from a mobile device to multiple CPWs which in this example are social networking systems by caching the photos at an intermediate web server memory . An exemplary flow can be as follows 

In operation the photographs from the mobile device are uploaded from the device to the front end portion . The front end portion or the back end portion caches the photos in the intermediate web server memory for a predetermined time period to allow the same photo to be submitted to the web sites of different systems without requiring the photo to be uploaded again by the mobile device. After the predetermined time period the photo will be erased. The predetermined period may be any time period and is selected according to the memory constraints and the frequency of use. The time period may for example be 24 hours which time period can start at the time the photograph is upload to the memory whereby the time period is set once the picture is uploaded or the time period may start upon the uploading of the photograph to a CPW whereby the time period will be extended each time the picture is uploaded to a new CPW.

For one exemplary embodiment a photograph is uploaded from mobile device as an action along with the identification of a specified CPW to the server front end portion and stored in temporary storage of the network server. The front end portion forwards the photo to a plug in in the back end portion of the server that can for example be dedicated to the CPW specified by the mobile device . The network server front end portion also sends a message including a photo identification ID associated with the saved photograph back to the mobile device . The photo ID identifies a location or pointer to the location where the photo is stored at the web server memory . The mobile device associates maps the photo ID with the name of the photo. Subsequently if the mobile device elects via the user interface to send the same photo to a different CPW e.g. a different social networking system the mobile device will send the photo ID instead of the actual photo to the web server . In response the web server will retrieve the photo and forward it to another plug in dedicated to the other CPW. It is envisioned that once the photo is removed from the memory an update will be sent to the mobile device to remove the association of the photo name and the photo ID so that the mobile device will upload the photograph. If on the other hand the photo is no longer stored and the web server receives a request to upload the photo associated with the photo ID the front end portion will send an error message to the subscriber mobile device responsive to which the subscriber device will be invited to upload the photo again.

For other embodiments the web server back end portion will determine whether the photo uploaded from the mobile device is within the requisite limitations e.g. dimensions and size of the target CPW e.g. social networking system . It is envisioned that this can be processed by the plug in associated with each CPW when a picture is removed from the memory as each plug in can store the CPW s limitations on photographs. If the limitations are met the back end portion can send the photo through to the target CPW. Otherwise the photo will be resized according to the requirements of the CPW. In order to resize the photograph and or scale the photo to a target size a resize factor is determined. A particularly advantageous algorithm that can be used to determine the resize factor X is as follows 100 0.5 

By storing a photograph in the web server the server helps reduce power consumption in the device and bandwidth burdens on the communication network by permitting the mobile device to send media to different CPWs at different times while uploading the media only once through the local area network or wide area network over which the mobile device communicates. Additionally the web server can adopt the media to the format desired by each CPW and the mobile device need not know or accommodate these requirements to successfully upload the media.

It is also envisioned that photographs can be downloaded to the mobile devices via the intermediary web server. For example for RSS news feeds photos from an RSS content source are pulled by the back end portion from the news feed along with a news feed summary. When the back end portion detects that such news information is new or in other words that a change has occurred since the previous RSS news feed was pulled from this CPW by the back end portion the back end portion of the server will transmit to the front end portion a feed properly formatted for the client mobile device . The front end portion will generate a low priority push notification to the client device and the queue for the device will be loaded with the summary and the photograph. When the client device thereafter sends a polling request to the front end portion for content the front end portion will transmit the contents of the queue including the news feed which contains the formatted picture and the summary. The client program on the mobile device will display the summary and associated picture on the mobile device display . The back end portion thus detects and formats the new picture and summary for the device and the front end portion notifies the device that content is available and responds to a polling request from the device to download the news feed to the mobile device . In addition to the above described operation in at least one additional embodiment if the input includes a touch sensor over the display commonly referred to as a touch screen the user can touch the screen at the summary and picture and the user interface will connect directly through link to the CPW associated with the news feed summary picture and load additional information regarding the news feed on the display for viewing by the user.

It is further envisioned that the client program in the mobile device will store some definitions regarding the content types and characteristics for each CPW with respect to which the user has a server account. The user interface of the mobile device will vary depending on which accounts the user sets up on the server. For example assume the user enters Facebook and Twitter on their web server account. When the user interacts with user interface to construct a message to be uploaded to a CPW the user interface display presents a choice of Facebook Twitter or ALL for the target CPW where the message will be sent. Depending on which selection is made the parameters for the message may be different e.g. the number of characters . If the user selects all the length will be the shorter of the two CPW limitations. It is further envisioned that a length count and warning can be provided. As the user enters text the remaining characters permitted before the limit is reached are displayed. At some threshold such as 30 characters a warning will be displayed. When the limit is exceeded the remaining characters will go to a negative count or the user will be prevented from inputting additional characters. In the event that the user changes the destination CPW the limit will change appropriately. For example if Twitter website is added as a destination after the message is created the limit will be reduced. If Twitter website is removed as a destination the limit increased.

The mobile device generates a user interface display having operating parameters dependent on the one or more CPWs to which the user device set up on the intermediary web server . For messages a generic message entry field is presented on a display for the user to input text the size upper limit based on the smallest maximum message size permitted by the one or more CPWs selected to be the destination of the message text. The limit can be retained on the client mobile device. The mobile device client program can generate a warning when the message size gets within a predetermined amount of the limit. The limit changes if the one or more CPWs changes. The content from the user interface input populates the message input area and can generate a warning when the limit is reached. The client program transmits the message to the server front end portion with the identity of the one or more CPWs. The back end portion formats the message for the one or more destination CPWs and uploads the message in the format desired by the CPW. From the above description it should be evident that a variety of methods employing numerous different operational steps such as those discussed above are encompassed by the present invention. Additionally a variety of alternate embodiments are also intended to be encompassed by the present invention in addition to the specific embodiments discussed above including embodiments employing methods having other operational steps in addition to or instead of those discussed above as well as embodiments employing methods with steps in a variety of orders and combinations in addition to or instead of the particular orders or combinations of steps discussed above. Further it should be evident that systems in accordance with one or more of the embodiments described above are able to provide enhanced functionality in several regards in terms of facilitating interactions between mobile devices operated by users and social networking websites. Depending upon the embodiment any one or more of the quality of communications between users and social networking websites the user friendliness of social networking websites and associated transactions as experienced by mobile device users and or the efficiency of communications between mobile devices and such websites can be enhanced.

It is specifically intended that the present invention not be limited to the embodiments and illustrations contained herein but include modified forms of those embodiments including portions of the embodiments and combinations of elements of different embodiments as come within the scope of the following claims.

