---

title: Wireless speaker and digital camera
abstract: A wireless speaker and digital camera device comprises a speaker, a lens, and image sensor, a processor, a wireless transceiver, a digital memory device, a battery and a shutter button to cause the at least one processor to capture a still image or video from the image sensor and store a captured image or video in the digital memory device. The processor and the wireless transceiver being configured to pair with a portable, hand-held computer. The device also having a play button to cause the processor and the transceiver to wirelessly receive music data from the portable, hand-held computer and play the music data through the speaker. The device can have a microphone and the processor can be capable of suspending operation of the speaker during operation of the microphone.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09277103&OS=09277103&RS=09277103
owner: ZAGG Intellectual Property Holding Co., Inc.
number: 09277103
owner_city: Salt Lake City
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150828
---
Wireless speakers have been developed that receive and play streaming music data from a cellular phone. Such wireless speakers are often shaped and sized as cans or bricks and can have batteries for stand alone operation.

Digital cameras are common and can capture still and moving pictures or video . Such cameras typically store image data on a removable storage medium such as a flash memory card that can be removed and inserted into a computer to download the image data.

It has been recognized that it would be advantageous to develop a combined wireless speaker and digital camera to both play streaming music from a cellular phone or the like and also capture still and video images. It has been recognized that it would be advantageous to develop such a combined wireless speaker and digital camera that is readily usable and transportable to encourage continuous use and facilitate immediate capture of images.

The invention provides a wireless speaker and digital camera device comprising a housing having a top a front side and a back side. The housing has a lens aperture in the front side and a speaker aperture. A speaker is disposed in the housing and is oriented to direct sound through the speaker aperture. A lens is disposed in the housing and is oriented to face the lens aperture in the front side of the housing. An image sensor is disposed in the housing and is positioned and oriented to receive light from the lens. One or more processors are disposed in the housing and coupled to the speaker and the image sensor. One or more wireless transceivers are disposed in the housing and coupled to the processor s . A digital memory device is disposed in the housing and coupled to the processor s . A battery is disposed in the housing and coupled to the processor s . A shutter button is carried by the housing and coupled to the processor s configured to cause the processor s to capture a still image or video from the image sensor and store a captured image or video in the digital memory device. The processor s and the wireless transceiver s are configured to pair with a portable hand held computer. A play button is carried by the housing and coupled to the processor s to cause the processor s and the transceiver s to wirelessly receive music data from the portable hand held computer with the wireless transceiver s and play the music data through the speaker.

In accordance with a more detailed aspect of the invention the device can further comprise a microphone disposed in the housing and coupled to the processor s . The processor s can be capable of suspending operation of the speaker during operation of the microphone. The processor s can be configured to both i record audio from the microphone in the digital memory device and ii transmit audio from the microphone to a portable hand held computer with the transceiver s .

Reference will now be made to the exemplary embodiments illustrated and specific language will be used herein to describe the same. It will nevertheless be understood that no limitation of the scope of the invention is thereby intended.

The term portable hand held computer is used broadly herein to refer to a computer or multi media device that is one piece and that is portable and handheld such as cellular or cell phones smart phones tablets or tablet computers so called phablets digital music players MP3 players etc. The portable hand held computer can have a battery and memory and a processor with software running thereon. The portable hand held computer can have WiFi and Bluetooth connectivity and can have a wireless transmitter receiver or transceiver. In addition the portable hand held computer can include a digital camera. The term cellular phone is used broadly herein to refer to any communication device with wireless communication capability. Thus the cellular phone or communication device can connect and communicate over a cellular network. In addition the cellular phone or communication device can wirelessly couple to a wireless area network which in turn can couple to a telephone network or line.

The term computer is used herein to refer to a portable hand held computer as described above as well as other computing devices or platforms such as desk top or lap top computers etc.

The term transceiver is used herein to refer to a transmitter for transmitting a signal a receiver for receiving a signal or both a transmitter and a receiver. The transceiver can both send and receive or can include a transmitter for transmitting a signal and a receiver for receiving a signal.

The term ferromagnetic is used herein to refer to a material or element that has magnetic properties and or an ability to magnetically couple either by being magnetic or being magnetically attracted to a magnet such as by containing iron such that one ferromagnetic material or element is magnetically attracted to another ferromagnetic material or element. Thus a ferromagnetic coupler is a magnet or is magnetic such as a permanent magnet or is attracted to magnets such as by containing iron.

As illustrated in a wireless speaker and digital camera device indicated generally at in an example implementation in accordance with the invention is shown for use with a portable hand held computer . The wireless speaker and digital camera combines the functions of a wireless speaker to play streaming music wirelessly sent by the portable hand held computer and a digital camera to capture still and or moving images video . In addition the wireless speaker and digital camera is configured to be worn about a user s neck and pendent therefrom to position the wireless speaker for listening and to position the digital camera for ease of use and ready accessibility. The configuration of the wireless speaker and digital camera promotes being worn either pendent around the user s neck or in a shirt pocket and thus promotes ready use to capture images.

The wireless speaker and digital camera can have a housing with a top a front side a back side and a bottom . In one aspect the bottom of the housing can be rounded with a curvature that extends across the entire bottom from side to side and from front to back so that the housing has a rounded bottom. The rounded bottom can provide a more comfortable grip and facilitate holding the device or the housing in a user s hand or palm. In addition the rounded bottom can facilitate insertion of the device into a pocket. The front side can have a lens aperture a speaker aperture and a microphone aperture that extend through a wall of the housing. The housing can be formed of plastic such as by injection molding. The housing can be rigid and formed of a rigid wall with a hollow therein.

In addition the housing can have one or more holes apertures or bores at or near the top thereof to receive a loop such as a lanyard. The loop can be coupled to the housing with the housing pendant from the loop. A user s neck can be inserted through the loop so that the device and housing can be pendent from the user s neck or worn by the user. Thus the device can be a pendent device positioned for ready use as either the speaker or the camera. The speaker can be positioned near the user s ear. The camera can be positioned near the user s point of view and within ready reach.

In one aspect the device or the housing can have a mounting tab coupled to the housing and extending along an exterior of the back side of the housing. The mounting tab can be formed from metal and can be a metal strip. A top portion of the tab can extend beyond the top of the housing and can have the hole therein to receive the loop . Thus the housing can be suspended from the tab with the tab providing support for the housing.

In one aspect a protrusion can extend from the front side of the housing . The protrusion can be located at or near the top of the housing. The protrusion can provide a stop to which the user s finger can abut when holding the housing as shown in . The protrusion can circumscribe the lens aperture .

In another aspect a grip sleeve can be disposed over at least a lower portion of the housing . In one aspect the grip sleeve can cover at least a lower two thirds of the housing . In another aspect the grip sleeve can cover at least a lower three fourths of the housing. In another aspect the grip sleeve can cover at least a lower four fifths of the housing. The grip sleeve can cover a majority of a height of the housing so that the housing can be griped. The grip sleeve can be formed of a more flexible material than the housing such as a rubber or silicone or the like. In one aspect the grip sleeve can have a plurality of indentations and or protrusions to facilitate griping the device or the housing. The grip sleeve can have a cup shape with an open top through which the bottom of the housing can be inserted. The grip sleeve can be removably disposed on the housing and can be slid onto and off of the housing. The housing can have a hollow therein matching an exterior of the housing so that an interior of the sleeve matches and abuts to the exterior of the housing. The sleeve can have apertures located and corresponding to the speaker aperture in the housing and or the microphone or lens apertures . In addition the sleeve can have at least an indentation therein at or near the open top and corresponding to the protrusion in the housing. The sleeve can have a protrusion at the indentation corresponding to and matching the protrusion in the housing and covering at least a portion of the protrusion . Thus the protrusion in the sleeve can abut the user s finger to provide grip.

In another aspect the device or housing can have a coupler disposed on the back side of the housing and or on the mounting tab of the housing to releasably couple the housing and the device to another object such as a mounting plate . In one aspect the coupler can be a magnet or ferromagnetic and the mounting plate can be metal or ferromagnetic . In one aspect the mounting plate can be pendant from the loop or lanyard and the housing or device can be coupled to the mounting plate by the coupler. The coupler can allow the housing or the device to be hung from or mounted on another object. In addition the housing can pivot about the coupling as discussed in greater detail below.

Referring to the device can have a speaker a lens an image sensor a transceiver a digital memory device a microphone a battery or power source and one or more processors. In one aspect the processor can be electrically and operatively coupled to the speaker the image sensor the transceiver the digital memory device the microphone and the battery or power source. In another aspect the processor can include the wireless transceiver and or the digital memory device and can be electrically and operatively coupled to the speaker the image sensor the microphone and the battery or power source.

The speaker is disposed in the housing and oriented to direct sound through the speaker aperture s . In one aspect the speaker can be oriented to face the speaker aperture s in the front side of the housing. In one aspect the speaker can be mounted to and carried by the housing. In another aspect the speaker can be mounted to and carried by a circuit board or the like which in turn can be mounted to the housing. The speaker can be large with respect to a speaker of the portable hand held computer and can be configured to project sound in a larger environment and for listening by a larger number of people. The speaker can have a width or diameter greater than half of a width of the housing. The width or diameter of the speaker can extend across a majority of the width of the housing. The speaker aperture can comprise a plurality of apertures arrayed in a matrix extending over a majority of a front surface of the speaker forming a grill. The device and or the processor can further comprise an amplifier . The speaker and amplifier can amplify the audio signal from the portable hand held computer so that multiple people can listen to music or communications.

In addition the lens can be disposed in the housing an oriented to face the lens aperture in the front side of the housing. In one aspect the lens can be carried by the housing. In another aspect the lens can be carried by a circuit board or the like. The lens can be disposed in the protrusion in the front side of the housing. Thus the protrusion can allow for thicker optics. In addition the protrusion can act to resist inadvertent blockage of the lens when held by the user. The protrusion can provide tactile feedback for proper holding. The device and or the lens can include focusing drivers or the like.

The image sensor is disposed in the housing and positioned and oriented to receive light from the lens. The image sensor converts an optical image or light from the lens to an electronic signal. The image sensor can be a complementary metal oxide semiconductor CMOS a charge coupled device CCD or the like. In addition the image sensor can be coupled to an analog to digital A D converter. The A D converter converts the electronic signal into binary numbers which result in digital images. In one aspect the device can include a mechanical shutter. In another aspect the device can include an electrical or electronic shutter. In one aspect the image sensor can be mounted to and carried by the housing. In another aspect the image sensor can be mounted to and carried by a circuit board.

The microphone is disposed in the housing and coupled to the at least one processor . The microphone can be disposed adjacent to the microphone aperture in the housing. The microphone can detect sound that can be recorded or saved along with the video in the digital memory device . In addition the microphone can detect or sense audio. The processor can be configured to both i record audio from the microphone in the digital memory device and ii transmit audio from the microphone to a portable hand held computer with the at least one transceiver . Thus the microphone can be used for both video recording and transmitting audio for cellular communication. Thus the device can operate as a speaker phone. The device can be configured to toggle between playing music i.e. receiving music via the transceiver and communication i.e. sending and receiving audio communication via the transceiver. The device can have a button such as the play button described below that can send a control signal via the transceiver from the device or processor to the portable handheld computer to switch or toggle the portable handheld computer from one way streaming music data to two way audio communication data.

The at least one processor is disposed in the housing and coupled to the speaker and the image sensor . In one aspect the processor can be carried by a circuit board or the like. In addition at least one wireless transceiver is disposed in the housing and coupled to the at least one processor . Furthermore the digital memory device is disposed in the housing and coupled to the at least one processor . In one aspect the digital memory device can include one or more chips carried by a circuit board or internal to the processor. In another aspect the digital memory device can include an internal or removable flash memory card. The battery is disposed in the housing and coupled to the at least one processor .

A shutter button can be carried by the housing and coupled to the at least one processor . The shutter button is configured to cause the at least one processor to capture a still image or video from the image sensor and store a captured image or video in the digital memory device . In addition the shutter button can be configured to both start and stop the processor from capturing video or begin and end the storage of video to the digital memory device.

In one aspect the shutter button can be disposed on the back side of the housing . Thus the shutter button can be easily accessed and pushed by a user s finger or thumb when being held as shown in . In one aspect the device or camera can be a point and shoot type camera without a viewfinder. The shutter button can be disposed through the mounting tab or an aperture in the mounting tab.

In another aspect the shutter button can protrude from the back side of the housing and or mounting tab and can abut to another object such as the mounting plate as shown in when the housing is coupled to the mounting plate. Thus a force applied to the front side of the housing or device presses the shutter button against another object such as the mounting plate to activate the shutter button. Thus a user can take a picture or start recording video simply by pressing the device or housing against the mounting plate or against another object such as their chest.

In another aspect the processor can be capable of suspending operation of the speaker and or operation of the transceiver during operation of the microphone . For example when the shutter button is pressed by the user the processor can pause or mute the speaker to allow the microphone to record audio.

The at least one processor and the at least one wireless transceiver are configured to pair with the portable hand held computer and form a wireless connection. A play button can be carried by the housing and can be disposed on the top of the housing and can be coupled to the at least one processor . The play button can be configured to cause the at least one processor and the at least one transceiver to wirelessly receive music data from the portable hand held computer with the at least one wireless transceiver and play the music data through the speaker . In addition the play button can further be configured to pause or mute the transfer of music data and or advance the music data etc. The play button can cause the processor to send one or more command signals from the device through the transceiver to the portable hand held computer to control the transfer of music data and or other audio data such as cellular communication data .

A camera selector can be carried by the housing and can be disposed on the top of the housing and can be coupled to the at least one processor . The camera selector can be configured to select an image capture mode of the image sensor and or processor. The camera selector can have at least two positions in one aspect at least three positions in another aspect and at least four positions in another aspect. The positions of the camera selector can including a still shot mode a variable video mode a fixed video mode and a download or transfer mode. The still shot mode is configured to cause the at least one processor and the image sensor to capture a still image from the image sensor and store or record the captured still image in the digital memory device. The variable video mode is configured to cause the at least one processor and the image sensor to capture video for a variable duration determined manually by a user and to store or record the captured video in the digital memory device. The variable duration can be manually determined by the user pressing the shutter button to start recording and subsequently pressing the shutter button again to end recording. The fixed video mode is configured to cause the at least one processor and the image sensor to capture video for a predetermined time period. The predetermined time period can correspond to length restrictions imposed by popular social media sites. The download mode or transfer mode is configured to cause the at least one processor to transfer captured video or still images or both. In one aspect the processor can transfer or allow access to the digital memory device via a wired connection such as through a port such as a USB port. The port can be coupled to the processor and or digital memory device. In addition the port can be coupled to the battery to allow the battery to be recharged.

As described above the wireless speaker and digital camera device is operable to receive audio data from the portable hand held computer and transmit captured video and or still images to the portable hand held computer or another computer. The at least one processor can be configured to do one or more of the following 

The device and or processor s can include at least one non transitory machine readable storage medium having instructions embodied thereon for receiving audio data from the portable hand held computer and transmitting captured video and or still images to the portable hand held computer or another computer the instructions when executed by the at least one processor can perform one or more of the following 

Various techniques or certain aspects or portions thereof may take the form of program code i.e. instructions embodied in tangible media such as floppy diskettes compact disc read only memory CD ROMs hard drives non transitory computer readable storage medium or any other machine readable storage medium wherein when the program code is loaded into and executed by a machine such as a computer the machine becomes an apparatus for practicing the various techniques. Circuitry can include hardware firmware program code executable code computer instructions and or software. A non transitory computer readable storage medium can be a computer readable storage medium that does not include signal. In the case of program code execution on programmable computers the computing device may include a processor a storage medium readable by the processor including volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements at least one input device and at least one output device. The volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements may be a random access memory RAM erasable programmable read only memory EPROM flash drive optical drive magnetic hard drive solid state drive or other medium for storing electronic data. The node and wireless device may also include a transceiver module i.e. transceiver a counter module i.e. counter a processing module i.e. processor and or a clock module i.e. clock or timer module i.e. timer . One or more programs that may implement or utilize the various techniques described herein may use an application programming interface API reusable controls and the like. Such programs may be implemented in a high level procedural or object oriented programming language to communicate with a computer system. However the program s may be implemented in assembly or machine language if desired. In any case the language may be a compiled or interpreted language and combined with hardware implementations.

As used herein the term processor can include general purpose processors specialized processors such as VLSI FPGAs or other types of specialized processors as well as base band processors used in transceivers to send receive and process wireless or wired communications.

While the forgoing examples are illustrative of the principles of the present invention in one or more particular applications it will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art that numerous modifications in form usage and details of implementation can be made without the exercise of inventive faculty and without departing from the principles and concepts of the invention. Accordingly it is not intended that the invention be limited except as by the claims set forth below.

