---

title: Proactive and preventive health care system using remote monitoring and notifications
abstract: A health status monitoring and reporting system comprising a user-wearable armband and a gateway device is disclosed. The armband comprises a power source, a positional sensor and/or a movement sensor, a vital signs measurement device, and a transmitter operated. The vital signs measurement device generates output signals including an indicator of a health condition of the user. The transmitter is configured to receive outputs from the accelerometer and the vital signs measuring device, and transmit signals to an ultra low power network. The gateway device transmits data from the ULP network to a Wide Area Network for processing, data storage, notifications, or the like.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09642529&OS=09642529&RS=09642529
owner: eMobileCare Corporation
number: 09642529
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150602
---
This is a continuation in part of application Ser. No. 14 210 009 filed Mar. 13 2014 which claims the benefits of U.S. Provisional application No. 61 802 674 filed on Mar. 16 2013 the entire contents of which are hereby incorporated herein by this reference.

The invention relates generally to the field of health monitoring devices and more particularly to monitoring the health condition status of a person via instrumentation and communication devices integrated in a patient wearable structure.

The cost of healthcare has been a challenging issue in the United States with nearly one of every five dollars worth of the country s gross domestic product GDP going to medical expenditures. In an effort to control the cost of healthcare medical devices and communication technology have been used in combination to monitor chronic diseases and symptoms that could develop into serious conditions.

Various types of patient monitoring systems have been disclosed. For example U.S. Pat. No. 7 448 996 discloses a patient monitoring system for chronic diseases. U.S. Pat. No. 8 217 795 discloses a system for fall detection and alert. U.S. Pat. No. 7 453 364 discloses a safety device system comprising a wearable alarm device to measure physiological signals and a receiver capable of advising the user to wear the alarm device. U.S. Pat. No. 8 328 718 discloses a wearable appliance monitoring cardiac abnormalities in communication with the one or more wireless nodes.

There are always a need for a device and system with capacity of seamless and non intrusive monitoring meaningful physiological data enabling critical situation alert and providing pro active and preventive healthcare.

The following presents a simplified summary of the disclosure in order to provide a basic understanding to the reader. This summary is not an extensive overview of the disclosure and it does not identify key critical elements of the invention or delineate the scope of the invention. Its sole purpose is to present some concepts disclosed herein in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.

The present example provides a health status monitoring and reporting system comprising a user wearable armband and a gateway device. The armband comprises a power source a positional sensor and or a movement sensor a vital signs measurement device and a transmitter. The vital signs measurement device generates output signals including an indicator of a health condition of the wearable device user. The transmitter is configured to receive outputs from the accelerometer and the vital signs measuring device and transmit measurement data to a gateway via an ultra low power network ULPN . The gateway device transmits data from the ULPN to a cloud based portal for processing data storage notifications or the like. The portal analyzes the collected data and displays results on a dashboard. Critical situations and trends are alerted to caregivers and family members of the wearable device user. Graphical reports are generated and allow caregivers to see trends and analyze events leading to an incident. The capture and analysis of data around the clock 24 7 forms a basis for proactive and preventive healthcare.

The wearable device automatically outputs an alert if a critical situation is detected. The alert is received by the portal and sent to caregivers and family members. The alert will repeat every predetermined time interval such as 5 minutes until the alert is cancelled. The cloud based data is auto analyzed at a frequent interval looking for deviation from the norm. If a deviation is found an alert is raised. A caregiver such as a family doctor may be notified to facilitate in providing proactive and preventive care. This may also indicate a need to change or modify dosage of prescribed medicines.

By remotely monitoring and storing physiological data and providing alerts and notifications caregivers or family members of wearable device user may view the current and historical data as a dashboard on their mobile devices at anytime from anywhere.

The captured data may also be used like the black box in an aircraft. In case of an incident a caregiver and a doctor look back in time via the data to see what happened a few hours a day a week or a month before the incident and draw conclusions. With the right data tools and studies this will have a huge impact on the quality of healthcare and will result in cost savings.

One embodiment of the invention relates to a solution to capture physiological and environmental data. Physiological data includes vital signs body movement patterns activity states and duration of each activity. Environmental data includes sensors to detect opening and closing of doors ambient light and temperature gas or water leaks sound motion to read Near Field Communications NFC tags or Radio Frequency Identification RFID tags. Such data help in forming a complete picture of a user s status environment and activities for making informed decisions for healthcare and safety.

Various sensors and technologies are used to seamlessly gather physiological data by using an unobtrusive arm band. A remote monitoring service is alerted if a critical situation is detected or if the device is taken off or if it fails self diagnostics. The device uses algorithms configured to enable ultra low power consumption for collecting and sending data. Collected data is analyzed to provide proactive and preventive healthcare.

Many of the attendant features will be more readily appreciated as the same becomes better understood by reference to the following detailed description considered in connection with the accompanying drawings.

The detailed description provided below in connection with the appended drawings is intended as a description of the present examples and is not intended to represent the only forms in which the present example may be constructed or utilized. The description sets forth the functions of the example and the sequence of steps for constructing and operating the example. However the same or equivalent functions and sequences may be accomplished by different examples.

The examples below describe a health status monitoring and reporting system. Although the present examples are described and illustrated herein as being implemented in a local health status monitoring device and a network reporting implementation the system described is provided as an example and not a limitation. As those skilled in the art will appreciate the present examples are suitable for application in a variety of different types of monitoring and reporting systems.

The embodiments depicted in the several drawing figures have several hardware and software components as are described in detail in the following paragraphs. For convenient reference the numeric labels in the drawing figures correspond to the following features 

The Gateway is coupled to the ULTPN with built in transceivers for Bluetooth 4.0 and 802.15.4 protocol based networks. In one embodiment the system also comprises at least one environmental sensor coupled to the gateway via one or the other of the ULTPN protocols. In one embodiment the gateway connects to the internet in order to access a Cloud Computing Services using a wide area network interface such as a cellular radio . In one embodiment the cellular is a 3G CDMA or 3GPP or 4G LTE network. In another embodiment the gateway connects to the internet by using a built in Wi Fi interface . This method may only be used if a Wi Fi router is available and functional at the place where the wearable device user will be monitored e.g. at the place of residence. Sending data over Wi Fi is cost effective. A built in device executable instruction set embodies an algorithm configured to prefer sending data to the web service via Wi Fi if and when available.

In one embodiment the connection to the Cloud Computing services is encrypted and compressed using HTTPS and JSON protocols. The Web Portal and associated Database are hosted by a cloud service provider known as Platform as a Service PaaS such as Amazon Web Service AWS Windows Azure or Google App Engine. In all cases an associated Database engine is used to store persistent data.

The Web Portal is accessible to registered caregivers and or family member of the wearable device user in a graphical and or text format. The caregivers and family members may use various user devices to monitor the current situation as well as to receive alerts via SMS and e mail notifications. The user device may be a desktop computer or a mobile device such as a smart phone a tablet a personal laptop etc. The only requirement is that the user device should have data and text access to the internet.

The memory is integrated within the SoC chip or a separate memory IC. The memory is a storage loaded with self diagnostics logic and any other software or firmware instructions or algorithm executable by the device for the operation of the wearable device. In one embodiment the memory also comprises a buffer for temporarily storing data from outputs of various sensors.

The gyroscope functions as a position sensor and the accelerometer functions as a movement sensor. The accelerometer sensor is designed to measure the acceleration and tilt. The gyroscopic sensor measures the angular velocity and orientation. Gyroscope and accelerometer has been used individually or in combination in initial navigation to determine acceleration position orientation speed etc.

The heart rate monitor oximeter may be a reflectance heart rate monitor a reflectance oximeter or a combination of both. The heart rate monitor oximeter and the infrared temperature sensor are examples of a vital signs measurement sensor and are not intended to represent the only forms in which the present example may be constructed or utilized. The wearable device may also comprises or incorporate other vital signs measurement sensors for other vital signs measurements.

The System on Chip SoC is a microprocessor based system with all the necessary components including the microprocessor combined on a single chip including an ultra low power transceiver comprising both a transmitter and a receiver for connection to the gateway. In one embodiment the SoC is a Texas Instruments CC2541 device which has a built in Bluetooth 4.0 transceiver. In another embodiment the SoC is an Atmel ATMEGA128RFA1 device which has a built in Zigbee transceiver. In yet another embodiment the SoC is a Nordic nRF51 822 device which has a built in Bluetooth 4.0 transceiver. In an embodiment an I2C bus and an SPI bus are used to connect sensors to the SoC as all sensors have either a I2C bus or SPI bus connection capabilities. In an embodiment the Reflectance Heart Rate Monitor Oximeter is connected to an internal analog to digital converter ADC of the SoC. In still another embodiment the analog to digital conversion is performed on the subassembly and only the result is fed into the SoC.

The power for the operation of the wearable device the SoC and any other applicable sensors requiring power input is supplied by the battery . In one embodiment the battery is a 3.3 volts Lithium Ion rechargeable battery although other battery technologies that likewise provide a suitable voltage are also contemplated within the embodiments. In a preferred embodiment the WD is water proof and consumes an ultra low amount of power therefore the battery is expected to last a long time up to several months or even a year between charges. In some embodiment the WD may even comprises a motion charger using kinetic energy from wearable device movement to charger the battery for even longer time of battery life.

At step WD being worn is verified. If the WD is not being worn an alert is generated and the alert data is stored in the buffer. The monitoring cycle is terminated as shown in to save power. The SoC and all sensors except the accelerometer are either off or in sleep mode either for a predetermined time such as 3 minutes or until user wearing is detected. In one embodiment user wearing may be checked by measuring two parameters. A first parameter is from the heart rate monitor . If no heart beat is detected the device is likely to be off the arm not being worn . A second parameter is from the temperature sensor which should within a reasonable range of human temperature range. With the combination of these two parameters a decision could be made whether or not the device is being worn. The status is then sent to the gateway for further processing. Alternatively the status is checked by the capacitive proximity detector . The optical sensor may also be used for proximity detection. If the device is not being worn the measurement cycle would terminate at the start to conserve battery power.

After the wearable device is detected to be worn by the device user the device starts vital signs and other measurements in step . In step the device user s body motion is detected using an ultra low power Accelerometer on a Micro Electromechanical System MEMS chip. In an exemplary embodiment the accelerometer chip is an Analog Devices ADXL362 device and the Gyroscope is an InvenSense IMU device. In another exemplary embodiment an InvenSense MPU9250 chip combines each of an accelerometer a gyroscope and a pressure altitude sensor in a single MEMS chip. In step the device user s body temperature is measured with the temperature sensor . In step the device user s heartbeat rate and or SpO2 is measured after the Heart rate Monitor Oximeter is switched on in step with measurement for a predetermined measurement interval such as 20 seconds for stable and reliable data reading.

In a preferred embodiment the ultra low power accelerometer is on at all times and generates interrupts in case of a critical situation like a fall in step or a tap in step . Tapping on the device which is detected by the accelerometer may indicate a request for help in the manner of a panic button. 

Detection of a critical situation by the accelerometer interrupts wakes up a Microprocessor unit MCU in the SoC to perform further analysis and to send the data and an alert to the gateway using the ultra low power network. The accelerometer also detects normal motion in step and categorizes the type of motion and sends the data to the gateway. In one embodiment the SoC and the sensors are woken up to obtain readings of vital signs even if there is no motion detected every a predetermined interval such as 5 minutes. The predetermined interval may be programmable. Self diagnostics such as reading a battery voltage level in step and user wearing check are performed during the woken up period and the self diagnostics results are sent to the gateway.

In step the sensor measurement data are collected and stored in the buffer within the memory . In step alert data recorded under critical situations are also collected and stored in the buffer within the memory . In step all the measurement data and alert data are sent to the gateway using the transceiver within the SoC . In step the WD receives an acknowledgement from the gateway or try to send the data three times if no acknowledgement received.

Those skilled in the art will realize that the process sequences described above may be equivalently performed in any order to achieve a desired result. Also sub processes may typically be omitted as desired without taking away from the overall functionality of the processes described above.

In exemplary embodiments the Digital Infrared temperature sensor comprises a Texas Instruments TMP006 device and the Pressure Altitude sensor is a Freescale MPL3115A2 device. The Reflectance Heart Rate Monitor Oximeter is a subassembly containing an Infrared LED a red LED a photo sensor and a Texas Instruments AFE4490 analog front end device with operational amplifiers and filters to obtain heart rate and oxygen saturation level by measuring the light reflected by the user s arm. Such configuration makes the WD non intrusive and safe with none of the sensors actually touching the skin.

The WD typically includes an NFC RFID tag for identification which is read by an environmental sensor for tracking and also for identification to the gateway. The WD is authenticated and paired to the gateway by bringing it to within a close proximity to the gateway using the transceiver within the SoC .

In one embodiment the WD also supports upgrade of firmware over the air through the transceiver within the SoC . The firmware upgrade may be initiated by the gateway and or cloud computing service .

In one embodiment the gateway transceiver is a Bluetooth 4.0 and or 802.15.4 Transceivers to communicate to the ULPN . The WAN interface may comprises a cellular transceiver and a Wi Fi transceiver . The WAN interface couples to the cloud computing server using the Cellular transceiver and or Wi Fi transceiver . The Wide Area Network Interface comprises software codes to maintain and prioritize connection to wide area network.

In one embodiment the gateway allows 2 way communications with the authenticated caregivers via a 2 way communication hub . The camcorder the microphone speaker and the LCD screen may be integrated within the gateway for video recording voice input output etc to facilitate communications. The gateway may be fixed or portable. The optional GPS module may be integrated within the gateway for tracking the exact location of the gateway if the gateway is portable.

In one embodiment the gateway further comprises modules for administration tasks to provide security authentication and data compression. The self diagnostics module monitors and reports hardware software and networking issues. The gateway may be a modified tablet computing device e.g. based on the GOOGLE ANDROID operating system or an APPLE IPAD device with a custom application software e.g. an App . In another embodiment the gateway is constructed with custom hardware and custom software.

The data is persisted in a SQL Lite database which is stored within the gateway memory . Device Data provider collects data from the WD and other environmental sensors and passes the data to a Content provider which stores the data in the SQL Lite database . A watchdog provider is a background service that monitors data flow and persistence. Data sensor measurement and alert data stored in the database will be deleted after successful transferring to the cloud computing services. A simulated data UI is optional for testing and displaying data transfer process. A network self diagnostics module provides diagnostics algorithm for battery hardware and network traffic and alerts sending when necessary. An alarms and reminder provider provides visual and sound notification for alarm and reminder information. The notification may be cleared by the user by pressing a hardware or software button . The action of the button is also recorded and sent to the cloud computing services.

In one embodiment the gateway is plug and play it needs to be plugged in to AC power and switched on. At the first use the WD is authenticated and paired to the gateway using of NFC RFID tag. The gateway is typically pre configured to auto connect to the WD and environmental sensors and also establish connection to a Cloud Computing Services Portal. Optionally the gateway may be connected to a Wi Fi router if a router is available. If a critical situation is detected or is indicated by a tap the gateway will beep and a Clear Alarm button will flash. User may cancel the alert by pressing or touching the Clear Alarm button on the gateway. If a reminder is set at the portal for example to take medicine the gateway will beep and announce the reminder. The user may cancel the reminder by pressing or touching a Clear Reminder button. Alternatively the reminder alerts will auto stop in 30 seconds or upon the expiration of some other predetermined time duration .

A business intelligence type process is run every three hours or at some other predetermined time interval to analyze trends patterns and deviations from normal conditions enabling the provision of proactive and preventive care. An Administration task is provided by an admin console allowing tasks such as creating users groups and access levels. The database engine stores user identification login credentials WD data sensor data user profiles data access permissions notifications alerts reminders etc. at a non transitory data storage medium which is accessible and editable by admin users.

Reminders engine gathers and transfer to the gateway the data associated with the wearable device user. Reports engine gathers physiological and sensor data per wearable device user and provides graphical reports to a dashboard which is the primary interface to caregivers and family associated with a wearable device user after authentication. Caregivers and family members may connect to the web portal from their mobile devices at anytime and from anywhere via internet connection. In one embodiment the mobile devices such as IPHONE IPAD WINDOWS phone ANDROID phone and tablet are loaded with a customer app for better experience. In one embodiment users can use a web browser to access the web portal. Text Notifications may be sent by SMS engine using an SMS texting application e.g. as is available from TWILLIO etc. . E Mail notifications may also be sent by an E Mail engine using SMTP as provided by AWS.

The customer application enables a user to view the current status and run and view graphical reports regarding to a WD user after authentication checkup. If no critical situation or fault condition presents the status is all green. In case an alert is generated the corresponding status icon will turn red and the caregiver or family member will receive an SMS text and or an e mail message. In an embodiment the text and e mail are still sent to the caregiver or family member even though they are not connected to the portal when the alert is generated. The caregiver or family member can also clear the alert from the portal. The caregiver or family member may also set a recurring or one time reminder from the portal.

In one embodiment a caregiver or a family member may be tied to more than one wearable device user to view the dashboards of all the wearable device users they are authorized to view.

It will be understood that the present invention is not limited to the method or detail of construction fabrication material application or use described and illustrated herein. Indeed any suitable variation of fabrication use or application is contemplated as an alternative embodiment and thus is within the spirit and scope of the invention.

It is further intended that any other embodiments of the present invention that result from any changes in application or method of use or operation configuration method of manufacture shape size or material which are not specified within the detailed written description or illustrations contained herein yet would be understood by one skilled in the art are within the scope of the present invention.

Finally those of skill in the art will appreciate that the invented method system and apparatus described and illustrated herein may be implemented in software firmware or hardware or any suitable combination thereof. Preferably the method system and apparatus are implemented in a combination of the three for purposes of low cost and flexibility. Thus those of skill in the art will appreciate that embodiments of the methods and system of the invention may be implemented by a computer or microprocessor process in which instructions are executed the instructions being stored for execution on a computer readable medium and being executed by any suitable instruction processor.

Accordingly while the present invention has been shown and described with reference to the foregoing embodiments of the invented apparatus it will be apparent to those skilled in the art that other changes in form and detail may be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as defined in the appended claims.

