---

title: Business communication service
abstract: Methods, systems, and computer program products for providing business communication services are disclosed. A computer-implemented method may include detecting a communication initiated by a user, analyzing the detected communication to determine an intended recipient of the communication, determining whether the recipient is responsive to the communication, determining whether to provide visual information associated with the recipient to the user in response to the communication, analyzing one or more prior transactions involving the user and the recipient, identifying a reason that the user initiated the communication with the recipient, determining one or more preferences of the user to generate a personalized user interface comprising the visual information, generating the personalized user interface for the user comprising the visual information, and displaying the personalized user interface to the user in response to the communication, for example, when the recipient is unable to respond to the communication.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09536260&OS=09536260&RS=09536260
owner: PayPal, Inc.
number: 09536260
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150331
---
The present disclosure generally relates to computer systems and more particularly to providing business communication services using specialized beacon devices the Internet and user interfaces.

Small businesses generally include privately owned corporations partnerships and sole proprietorships. In addition a business may be classified as small based on one or more criteria including employees assets sales and profits. Examples of small businesses may include bakeries delicatessens hairdressers barbers spas attorneys accountants restaurants bed and breakfasts photographers small scale manufacturers online businesses mom and pop stores family owned businesses mechanics tailors handymen home inspectors and independent contractors. Many small businesses achieve great success and popularity. However most small businesses generally do not have the resources or infrastructure such as IVR systems and call answering systems to provide continuous and immediate phone or web support during before and after business hours.

For example at times every available employee may be busy helping existing customers. Also unpredictable or unexpected scenarios such as bad weather employee scheduling and variable customer demand can result in situations where a small business is occasionally understaffed. Further some small businesses may choose not to hire additional support staff for example either to increase profits or to minimize losses. As a result there are times when small businesses cannot immediately respond to phone calls e mails or other communications received from potential customers existing customers and business partners.

Therefore providing new and improved business communication services that allow small businesses and other merchants to better serve consumers and suppliers is of importance.

Systems methods and computer program products for providing business communication services are disclosed. In an example a business communication system allows a merchant to display a personalized user interface generated for a user on a computing device in response to a user initiated communication directed to the merchant.

In an example a business communication system associated with an operating system or application running on a computing device such as a mobile computing device detects that a user is initiating a call or other communication. The business communication system then analyzes information associated with the call or other communication and determines whether the intended recipient uses a service providing personalized user interfaces for incoming communications.

In an example the business communication system determines whether the merchant or other party is responsive to the call or other communication from the user. For example the business communication system may determine that the merchant s line is busy or that the merchant is not answering the call. The business communication system then may determine whether to provide a personalized version of status information received from the merchant to the user for display on a computing device. For example the business communication system may determine whether there is information from the merchant to provide to the user or whether the user wishes to display such information.

In an example the business communication system analyzes information about the user to generate the personalized customer view of the merchant for the user. For example the business communication system may analyze one or more transactions involving the user one or more transactions involving the user and other parties social media other information associated with the user transaction history with the merchant search history with a recently purchased product or service from the merchant and or preferences indicated by the user. For example the business communication system may analyze information associated with the user to determine what the user likes dislikes and generally considers important or unimportant. In another example the system determines a likely purpose of the call by the user to the merchant such as based on a recently purchased product or service recent searches about a product or service and or emails to the merchant. The business communication system then uses such information to tailor a personalized customer view for the user by showing the user how well the merchant s offerings match or do not match the user s interests or by showing the user content the user may interested in i.e. the reason the user is trying to contact the merchant.

In an example the business communication system generates the personalized user interface for the user based on the user s preferences in view of various information provided by the merchant. For example the personalized user interface may be generated based on real time or near real time information provided by the merchant. Such information may include product and service offerings available from the merchant information about user transactions and other transactions processed by the merchant and operational information provided by the merchant such as information about other patrons employees efficiency queues delays or other details about merchant location conditions.

In an example the business communication system displays the personalized user interface comprising information from the merchant to the user in response to the user s communication. For example the business communication system may display the personalized user interface to the user when the merchant is unable to respond to the communication. The personalized user interface also may be displayed on a user call with a merchant for example to facilitate communication between the user and a merchant representative.

Accordingly aspects of the present disclosure facilitate the communication between merchants and a user even when the merchant is unavailable or unable to answer a communication from the user. For example a graphical user interface comprising real time or near real time information tailored to the user s interests or reason for the call is displayed to the user to assist the user in locating the merchant and understanding how well the merchant is currently able to serve their needs both operationally and based on product and service offerings including information about products and services.

Network may be a public network e.g. the Internet a private network e.g. local area network LAN or wide area network WAN or any combination thereof. In an example network may include the Internet one or more intranets wired networks wireless networks and or other appropriate types of communication networks. In one example network may comprise a wireless telecommunications network e.g. cellular phone network adapted to communicate with other communication networks such as the Internet. Network also may include one or more short range wireless networks or beacon networks.

A beacon generally refers to a short range communication device having a known or fixed location. A beacon usually provides a signal that can be detected by mobile devices within a certain proximity of the beacon. Some types of beacons can detect the presence of other computing devices within range of the beacon and communicate with the other in range computing devices. Further some types of beacons can detect collect monitor observe and communication data about conditions of a location or physical environment accessible to the beacon.

Various types of beacons include but are not limited to radio frequency RF beacons e.g. Bluetooth low energy BLE beacons infrared beacons and radio frequency identifier RFID tags. For example BLE beacons may broadcast an RF signal that includes position coordinates e.g. latitude longitude altitude which can be detected by a mobile device. In some examples a beacon also may advertise location based services available on a beacon network. Generally a beacon network usually encompasses a plurality of beacons in a geographic area.

In an example when a mobile computing device first makes contact with a beacon in a beacon network the beacon may transmit a list of unique identifiers of other beacons in the network and other information about the beacon network to the mobile computing device. Beacon networks may be located in any geographic area including businesses e.g. shopping malls retail stores restaurants etc. landmarks e.g. museums airports parks entertainment venues etc. office buildings government buildings schools universities homes and in any other environments where short range communication and or location based services may be desired.

Data store generally refers to persistent storage capable of storing various types of data such as text audio video and image content. In some examples data store may include a network attached file server while in other examples data store may include other forms of persistent storage such as an object oriented database a relational database and so forth.

Client machine A may be a personal computer PC laptop mobile phone tablet computer server computer wearable computing device or any other type of computing device. Client machine A may run an operating system OS that manages hardware and software of the client machine A. A browser not shown may run on the client machines e.g. on the OS of the client machines . The browser may be a web browser that can access content and services provided by web server application server or a combination of a web server and an application server . Other types of computer programs and computer scripts also may run on client machine A.

Client machines A N each may include a respective business communication system A N that displays a personalized user interface to a user on a respective client machine A when merchant or another party that the user is trying to contact e.g. via telephone web chat voice chat video chat instant messenger e mail text message SMS message tweet social media message or using any other communication medium is unresponsive to the user s communication. For example business communication system A running on a client machine A e.g. as a software application mobile application operating system component or other application etc. may determine whether to display a personalized view of data received from the recipient of the communication in response to the user s communication. The business communication system A then may display the personalized view comprising data received from the recipient when the recipient is unable to respond to the user s communication.

In some examples a business communication system M may be provided to users by a merchant by a third party technology vendor by a third party payment processing provider or generally any other party. Also generally a business communication system M may be used to facilitate communications between two or more parties and is not specifically limited to interactions between merchants and consumers. For example a person may wish to use a business communication system A to provide friends family members coworkers or other individuals with a personalized visual message comprising information received from the person when that individual is unable to respond to a communication.

Server machine and business communication system A M each include a respective configuration manager module M communication manager module M data manager module M and presentation manager module M. In various examples such modules may be combined divided and organized in various arrangements on one or more computing devices.

Merchants generally refer to one or more parties that sell or otherwise provide products or services to various parties such as consumers businesses governments non profit organizations etc. Merchants generally may provide goods or services by having a physical presence by operating online with a virtual presence and or with the assistance of one or more intermediate agents e.g. brokers handlers shippers etc. .

Server machine may include one or more web servers and application servers . Web server may provide text audio image and video content from server machine or other sources e.g. data store to client machines A N. Web server also may provide web based application services business logic and updates to client machines A N. Client machines A N may locate access and consume various forms of content and services from web server using applications such as a web browser web servers and various other types of computer applications etc. Web server also may receive text audio video and image content from client machines A N which may be stored in data store for preservation and or sharing of content.

In an example web server is coupled to one or more application servers that provide application services data business logic and or APIs to client machines A N. In some examples application servers also may provide such services to client machines A N without use of web server .

In an example web server may provide client machines A N with access to one or more application server services associated with business communication system . Such functionality also may be provided as part of one or more different web applications standalone applications systems plug ins web browser extensions and application programming interfaces APIs etc. In some examples plug ins and extensions generally may be referred to individually or collectively as add ons. 

In an example client machines A N may include an application associated with a service provided by server machine e.g. business communication system . For example various types of computing devices e.g. smart phones smart televisions tablet computers smart wearable devices smart home computer systems etc. may use applications to access services provided by server machine to issue commands to server machine and or to receive content from server machine without visiting or using web pages.

In an example functions performed by server machine also may be performed by client machines A N in whole or in part. In addition the functionality attributed to a particular component may be performed by different or multiple components operating together. Further server machine may be accessed as a service provided by systems or devices via appropriate application programming interfaces APIs and thus is not limited to use with websites.

For example client machines A N and merchant each may include a respective business communication system A M and or one or more client modules of a respective business communication system A M for providing business communication services from a merchant to a user. Further server machine may include a respective business communication system and or one or more server based modules of a business communication system .

In an example configuration manager module of business communication system generally enables merchant or another party to establish configure update maintain and use a business communication service that provides a personalized view to users initiating communication with the merchant . In one example merchant provides information about its business when registering to use a business communication service. Merchant also may provide such information when registering for one or more other services such as payment processing services available from a payment processing provider.

In an example merchant provides a business name contact information unique contact identifiers e.g. telephone numbers e mail addresses account names account handles hashtags etc. one or more locations business hours descriptive information about a business a listing of available products and services and information about one or more operational aspects of the business. For example merchant may provide information about the operational capacity of a business location such as a number of tables or seats a number of check in or check out stations a number of employees expected to be working at given times a number of available work stations for employees to use a number of customers or orders that generally can be processed in a period of time etc. In some examples merchant may update such operational information periodically as needed. In addition operational information may be updated automatically for the merchant based on transactional information collected for the merchant over time or operational characteristics detected or observed at a location of the merchant e.g. by beacon devices or computing devices associated with the merchant location .

In an example merchant activates an available business communication service for responding to consumer communications when the merchant is unavailable or unable to handle such communications. For example the merchant may activate a business communication service so that all incoming communications incoming communications received during a scheduled or unscheduled period or incoming communications received via one or more communication media are handled by the service.

In some examples merchant uses a business communication service to handle communications received after hours during peak hours when the merchant steps out of the office when available telephone lines are occupied when the merchant is too busy to respond when the merchant prefers not to respond instead of providing the user with a busy signal instead of placing the user on hold instead of sending the user to voicemail instead of ignoring the user s communication when the user chooses or prefers to use the business communication service instead of waiting on hold or for other various reasons and situations. Merchant also may choose to transfer each of one or more individual customer communications to a business communication service. Further merchant may flexibly schedule activate and deactivate use of a business communication service as customer demands staffing and operations fluctuate.

In an example communication manager module of business communication system detects and analyzes communications initiated by a user to determine a recipient of the communication and whether the recipient is using a business communication service to handle incoming communications. For example communication manager module A running on client machine A may detect that a user has initiated a communication such as a telephone call video call chat session instant message text message SMS message e mail message social media message or tweet associated with merchant based on a unique merchant identifier e.g. telephone number e mail account name account handle hashtag etc. . Communication manager module A also may monitor a state of the communication initiated by the user to determine whether the merchant is responsive or unresponsive to the communication.

In an example data manager module of business communication system generally performs data related analysis and tasks associated with a business communication service. For example the data manager module may search a database directory service or other type of data store using a recipient identifier e.g. telephone number e mail account name account handle hashtag etc. to find an actual identity of the recipient. In one example data manager module then determines whether the recipient is registered to use a business communication system for displaying a personalized customer view to users in response to answered or unanswered communications.

In an example data manager module determines whether to provide a personalized customer view to a user in response to a user initiated communication. For example data manager module may determine whether the merchant uses a business communication service whether the merchant has activated a business communication service to handle incoming communications the status of a communication e.g. busy waiting on hold etc. the status of the merchant e.g. out of office unavailable at lunch busy on vacation closed etc. how long a user has been waiting to establish communication with the merchant e.g. rings seconds messages etc. whether the user has indicated a desire to display the personalized customer view etc.

In an example data manager module receives transactional operational and other data from merchant for use in generating and providing a personalized customer view to a user. For example data manager module may periodically receive transactional data updates operational data updates and other types of data from the merchant for use in providing personalized customer views for each respective user attempting to contact the merchant.

In an example data manager module determines one or more preferences of a user when generating the personalized customer view of merchant for the user. For example data manager module may analyze one or more transactions between the user and the merchant or between the user and another party to determine preferences and interests of the user. Data manager module also may locate and analyze other information about the user such as information available on social networks e commerce websites product review websites e mails and other sources to determine likes and dislikes of the user. Data manager module then may use such information to tailor the personalized customer view according to products services and experiences that each user finds interesting and of value.

In an example presentation manager module of business communication system generates a personalized user interface for a user that has initiated communication with merchant . For example presentation manager module A may generate a personalized customer view for a user that is attempting to contact the merchant . Presentation manager module A then displays the generated personalized customer view on the client machine A used to initiate the communication. In some examples presentation manager module A displays the personalized customer view when the merchant is unresponsive or unable to receive the user initiated communication.

In some examples presentation manager module A may provide the personalized customer view to a user when the merchant answers the communication. For example the personalized customer view may be provided to the user for an active conversation or other bidirectional communication with the merchant allowing the user to reference details about the merchant an account or a relationship with the merchant while actively engaging with the merchant e.g. to facilitate communication between the user and a representative of the merchant .

In an example presentation manager module A displays the personalized customer view automatically without user provided input confirmation acceptance navigation or instruction. For example presentation manager module A may display the personalized customer view automatically when merchant is unresponsive to a communication from the user based on status information associated with the merchant e.g. busy unavailable closed etc. when connecting to a representative from the merchant before during or after and in other situations.

In an example presentation manager module A displays the personalized customer view to the user by adjusting the display of client machine A from a communications oriented user interface to the personalized customer view comprising information provided by the merchant . For example the personalized customer view may include merchant provided status information and one or more operational metrics associated with current or recent business at a location of the merchant .

In some examples the personalized customer view allows the user to make a payment to the merchant . For example the personalized customer view may redirect the user to a dedicated payment user interface or allow the user to enter and submit payment information directly without leaving the personalized customer view . Further one or more aspects of the personalized customer view may be determined based on location information received from a global positioning device associated with a client machine A. For example such location information may be used to automatically select the closest merchant location to the user and provide real time navigation and travel time to the merchant from the user s present location.

In an example the user may select or input a unique identifier using the graphical user interface for communications to indicate the intended recipient of the communication. A software application running on the mobile computing device then may initiate the communication on behalf of the user and present the user with another user interface indicating that the communication has been initiated sent delivered or otherwise communicated to the intended recipient. In general communications may include but are not limited to telephone calls web chats voice chats video chats instant messenger sessions e mail text messages SMS messages tweets social media messages etc.

In an example the business communication system A determines that the recipient of a communication initiated by a user is unable to respond to the communication. Business communication system A then presents a user interface on the mobile computing device to transition the user from a communication interface to a personalized view of information received from the recipient. For example the user interface may indicate that the recipient of the communication is unavailable and asks whether the user wishes to display the personalized customer view from the recipient. The user then may accept or decline the opportunity to display the personalized customer view .

In an example a user accepting the opportunity is transitioned to the personalized customer view and a user that declines the opportunity may be directed to a prior communication interface used to initiate communication. In some examples the display on the mobile computing device is automatically transitioned from a user interface for communications or a user interface indicating that communication has been initiated directly to a personalized customer view for the user without user input when the recipient is unresponsive to the communication.

In an example the personalized customer view displayed to the user when the merchant is unavailable may include general information about the merchant such as the merchant name hours of operation provided services business category and other information. The personalized customer view also may include personal information about the user such as the user s name last transaction etc.

In an example the personalized customer view comprises a plurality of sections such as a first section integrating products and services of the merchant with preferences and interests of the user. The personalized customer view also may include a second section that provides the user with operational information received from the merchant to help the user determine whether or when to utilize services provided by the merchant . The personalized customer view further may include a third section that allows the user to perform one or more actions associated with the merchant . Other various organization arrangements and personalization may be provided to a user in the personalized customer view including informational content and links that are based on what the system thinks the user is calling about. This can be based on information about a recent purchase from merchant an email to the merchant searches by the user related to a service or product offered by or recently purchased from the merchant postings on social networks about an item or service that the merchant offers etc.

In an example user interface section provides the user with estimated travel times and directions to the merchant location based on GPS location information received from the mobile computing device . User interface section also provides daily special information received from the merchant information about whether the merchant offers or is able to provide the user s favorite products and seasonal specials or other non standard offerings provided by the merchant .

In an example user interface section provides the user with information about previous visits to the merchant and operational information received from the merchant . In various examples such information may be provided by the merchant based on observations of operations at a location based on transactional processing such as payment records or orders associated with the merchant or beacon devices or computing devices that monitor operations and activity of location.

In an example user interface section provides the user with operational information about the merchant indicating whether there is seating availability whether the merchant is able to provide service to the user and average expected wait times for various types of services offered by the merchant.

In an example the merchant may provide operational information and other data about their business at regular periodic intervals at times when new information is available at times when the merchant is able to provide information at times when a change is detected in operational information at the merchant location in response to requests or generally at any other time frequency or interval. In an example operational information received from the merchant may be provided to the user in real time in near real time e.g. in under a second in a few seconds under a minute etc. or with delay. Further the operational information provided to the user may be periodically refreshed automatically or in response to a user request.

In an example user interface section allows the user to perform one or more actions associated with the merchant . For example user interface section provides links or controls that allow the user to display additional menu information check on existing orders or service place new orders or requests make a payment to the merchant schedule a reservation or appointment and leave a message for the merchant e.g. voice text video image or any other type of message .

In an example the merchant is provided with a merchant view that includes information about each communication received by the merchant . For example the merchant view may include information about each customer that contacted the merchant or left a message for the merchant. In some examples the merchant view displayed to a merchant indicates one or more of how long a user has been a customer transaction history between the customer and the merchant a history of the customer s communications with the merchant the customer s preferences an average amount spent by the customer for each purchase an average profit earned from each purchase of the customer a loyalty rating for the customer a profitability rating for the customer a transaction frequency for the customer etc.

Method begins at block when communication manager module A of business communication system A analyzes a call initiated by a user to determine whether the call is for a merchant that uses a business communication service for incoming calls. In an example communication manager module A detects that a user has initiated to call to another party. In response communication manager module A analyzes information associated with the call such as a telephone number address book information contact information or other available information to identify the party receiving the call.

In an example communication manager module A locates a unique identifier for the recipient such as the destination telephone number for the call and searches one or more data stores to determine whether the recipient is registered to use a business communication service for answering calls. In one example communication manager module A determines that the intended recipient of a call is merchant that uses an online business communication service to handle incoming calls.

At block data manager module A of business communication system A determines whether to provide status information from the merchant to the user in response to the call. In an example data manager module A analyzes one or more configuration settings provided by the merchant to determine whether the merchant has enabled the business communication service to handle incoming calls. For example the merchant may indicate that new incoming calls after hours calls or calls that are unanswered after a number of predetermined rings are to be handled by a business communication service. Data manager module A also may analyze one or more communication systems associated with the merchant to determine whether the merchant is able to accept incoming calls e.g. based on a number of open or available telephone lines .

In an example data manager module A determines that an incoming call to the merchant is to be handled by a business communication service that displays personalized customer views comprising information received from the merchant in response to calls the merchant does not answer. For example data manager module A may determine that configuration data indicates that new calls for the merchant are to be handled by the business communication service. Data manager module A also may determine that an incoming call is to be handled by the business communication service when one or more predetermined criteria are met. For example an incoming call for the merchant may be handled by the business communication service after three rings after an amount of time when a line is busy when a user is on hold for a period of time and in other scenarios.

At block presentation manager module A of business communication system A displays the status information from the merchant to the user in a graphical user interface when the merchant is unable to respond to the call. In an example presentation manager module A generates and displays a personalized customer view on the computing device of a user that initiated a call to the merchant . For example presentation manager module A may display a personalized customer view in response to a merchant request or based on a determination that the merchant is unable to or prefers not to answer an incoming call.

In an example presentation manager module A displays a personalized customer view of merchant information to the user by adjusting a client machine A display from a communications oriented user interface associated with initiation of a communication to a personalized customer view e.g. personalized customer view comprising transactional operational and or other types of information provided by the merchant . For example a personalized customer view may include information about how closely merchant offerings match user preferences current or previous transactions between the user and the merchant and current or recent operational information indicating how quickly or efficiently the merchant is able to provide service to the user at a location.

Method begins at block when configuration manager module of business communication system receives instruction from a merchant to use a business communication service for handling calls received by the merchant . In an example merchant updates configuration information or sends a message to business communication system to activate a business communication service for responding to incoming user communications.

For example the merchant may activate the business communication service to handle the user communications when the merchant is unavailable or becomes unable to handle communications. In some examples the merchant may activate a business communication service so that each incoming communication received during a scheduled or unscheduled period of time or each incoming communication received via one or more communication media are handled by the business communications service.

At block configuration manager module of business communication system receives configuration data from the merchant for managing the business communication service used to handle the calls. In an example the merchant provides configuration information and other information for use in providing each user with a personalized customer view of the merchant . For example the configuration information provided by the merchant may include data indicating when and how a business communication service is to respond to incoming user communications.

In an example the merchant also may provide configuration information about one or more beacon devices and or computing devices at merchant locations. For example the merchant may use beacon devices and computer devices at one or more locations to detect the presence of employees the presence of customers the operational environment operational efficiency total capacity for serving users remaining capacity for serving users etc. Such information may be collected analyzed and used to guide the merchant existing customers or potential customers when making decisions.

In an example the merchant provides various information to configuration manager for use in creating and displaying personalized customer views to users. For example the merchant may first provide general business information contact information hours and location information for one or more merchant locations. Such general information may be provided and updated by the merchant generally at any time.

In an example the merchant also provides information about products and services that users are able to receive from the merchant . For example the merchant may provide inventory information service information pricing information availability information and other information to guide users in their decision making.

In an example the merchant also provides operational information associated with a business location. For example the merchant may indicate a number of seats tables service bays chairs cash registers fitting rooms employees or other units associated with providing service to customers. In some examples the merchant may associate a beacon device or a computing device with individual units or spaces e.g. locations or areas within the business that detect and monitor activities being performed at the respective units or spaces. In other examples the merchant may associate a single beacon device or computing device to detect and monitor activities of multiple units or spaces of the business.

In an example a beacon device or a computing device monitors a unit e.g. seat table service bay chair cash register fitting room employee etc. or space e.g. location area etc. to determine whether the unit or space is ready for use or is in use. For example the beacon device or the computing device may detect based on familiar or unfamiliar mobile computing devices the presence or absence of an employee near or in a unit or space the presence or absence of a customer near or in a unit or space the presence or absence of an object or other computing device near or in a unit or space e.g. a vehicle being serviced at a service bay and the presence of both a customer and an employee near or in a unit or space.

In an example the beacon device or the computing device also may monitor a period of time that an employee and or customer is present at a unit or space. Such information may be analyzed with prior and current transactional information of the merchant to determine a number of patrons at a merchant location availability or unavailability of service at a merchant location estimated wait times for customers estimated service times for customers and other information to help merchants and users make more informed decisions based on current conditions at location of the merchant .

In an example data collected from beacon devices and or computing devices at a merchant location may be used over time to learn information about the merchant s business. Such information may include times of understaffing times of overstaffing better employee utilization employee efficiency team efficiency operational efficiency of the business busy periods slow periods employee throughput time to service an average customer time to service a specific customer etc. In some examples such information and other associated information can be used by the merchant or business communication system to improve or suggest improvements for business operations of the merchant .

At block communication manager module A of business communication system A detects a call initiated by a user. In an example communication manager module A running on a mobile computing device of a user detects that the user has initiated a call with another party. For example communication manager module A may monitor one or more software applications or communication interfaces e.g. network devices to determine when a user is initiating communication with another party. In an example a software application or communication interface also may provide an indication to communication manager module indicating initiation of a communication by a client machine A.

At block communication manager module A of business communication system A analyzes the call to determine that the user is attempting to contact the merchant . In an example communication manager module A analyzes a communication initiated by a user to locate information identifying a recipient of the communication. For example communication manager module A may locate a telephone number or other unique identifier of the recipient. The unique identifier then may be used to search a database directory service or other type of data store to determine an actual identity of the recipient. In one example communication manager module A uses a telephone number from an initiated call to determine that the call is directed to a merchant using a business communication service to display personalized customer views to callers in response to their communications.

At block data manager module A of business communication system A determines whether to provide status information from the merchant to the user in response to the call. In an example data manager module A determines whether to provide status information from the merchant to the user in response to a communication based on one or more reasons. For example data manager module A may first determine whether the merchant has activated a business communication service to handle incoming or overflow calls. Data manager module A also may determine whether the merchant has provided current recent or any status information for display to users. Further data manager module A also may determine whether the user wishes have the status information provided by the merchant displayed on their computing device. For example the user may indicate a preference or provide a selection indicating whether a personalized customer view for the merchant is to be displayed on their mobile computing device in response to calling the merchant .

At block data manager module A of business communication system A analyzes transactional data and other data associated with the user. In an example data manager module A analyzes information about the user to determine likes and dislikes of the user. For example data manager module A may be associated or integrated with a payment processing service provider that provides access to purchase and payment information of the user. In one example transactions between the user and the merchant or other parties may be analyzed to determine one or more types of food products services activities locations subject matter computing devices clothes and other things that the user generally prefers uses or needs. Such information also may be determined by analyzing other information available for the user. For example user preferences may be determined by analyzing social networking information or other information that the user has provided on the Internet e.g. text images video product reviews product registries etc. . In general such information learned about the user may be used to tailor a personalized customer view displayed to a user.

At block data manager module A of business communication system A determines at least one possible reason that the user is calling the merchant . In an example data manager module A analyzes transactional data involving the user and the merchant to determine one or more suspected or actual reasons for the user initiating the call to the merchant . For example data manager module A may identify a recent purchase pending order upcoming appointment current bill account annotation or one or more other various reasons that a user may be calling the merchant. In some examples data manager module A may determine a reason for the user s call based on other types of data such as events scheduled on a user s calendar a location of the user a time of day the nature of the merchant s business tendencies of the user e.g. oil changes every three months haircuts every three weeks etc. .

At block presentation manager module A of business communication system A generates a personalized customer view to provide the user when the merchant is unable to answer the user s call. In an example presentation manager module A generates a personalized customer view for the merchant to provide to the user in response to a communication. For example presentation manager module A may use information determined from transactions of the user online behavior and participation of the user preference information received from the user business information provided by the merchant and operational information provided by the merchant to generate a personalized customer view for each of one or more users in communication with the merchant .

In an example the personalized customer view generated by presentation manager module A may display whether the merchant provides does not provide or temporarily can or cannot provide specific products or services of interest to the user. The personalized customer view generated by presentation manager module A also may include operational information from the merchant such as a current number of patrons at a merchant location overall merchant capacity remaining merchant capacity expected wait times etc.

At block communication manager module A of business communication system A determines that the merchant is unable to respond to the call. In an example communication manager module A determines that the merchant is not available based on a merchant status e.g. out of office unavailable at lunch busy on vacation closed etc. . Communication manager module A also may determine that the merchant is unable to respond to a user call based on a configuration setting set by the merchant . Further communication manager module A may determine that the merchant is not responding to the user s communication within a period of time or within a predetermined number of attempts rings unanswered messages a number of attempts by the user to initiate a text voice video or other session etc. .

At block presentation manager module A of business communication system A displays the personalized customer view to the user. For example presentation manager module A may display a personalized customer view generated for the user which comprises one or more of general information transactional information operational information product service information and available customer actions from the merchant . In one example the personalized customer view is displayed by a mobile application running on mobile computing device . Personalized customer view also may be displayed by an operating system by a web browser or by any other type of software application.

In some examples the personalized customer view may be offered or automatically provided to a user initiating communication with the merchant when the merchant is unable to respond to the user s communication. In other examples the personalized customer view may be offered or automatically provided to the user when the merchant is able to respond to the communication. For example the merchant may provide the personalized customer view to customers to help facilitate customer communications with an employee or other merchant business representative.

In an example presentation manager module A displays the personalized customer view to the user automatically based on user preference or based on user instruction by adjusting the display of client machine A from a communications oriented or other user interface to the personalized customer view . In some examples the personalized customer view indicates that the user owes a due or past due payment to the merchant . Further the personalized customer view may allow the user to make a payment directly from the personalized customer view by entering and submitting a payment method and amount entering and submitting a payment amount for a stored payment method or clicking a button or other control to submit payment for an exact amount using a stored payment method.

The exemplary computer system includes a processing device processor a main memory e.g. read only memory ROM flash memory dynamic random access memory DRAM such as synchronous DRAM SDRAM double data rate DDR SDRAM or DRAM RDRAM etc. a static memory e.g. flash memory static random access memory SRAM etc. and a data storage device which communicate with each other via a bus .

Processor represents one or more general purpose processing devices such as a microprocessor central processing unit or the like. More particularly the processor may be a complex instruction set computing CISC microprocessor reduced instruction set computing RISC microprocessor very long instruction word VLIW microprocessor or a processor implementing other instruction sets or processors implementing a combination of instruction sets. The processor also may be one or more special purpose processing devices such as an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA a digital signal processor DSP network processor or the like. The processor is configured to execute instructions for performing the operations and steps discussed herein.

The computer system also may include a network interface device . The computer system may further include a video display unit e.g. a liquid crystal display LCD or a cathode ray tube CRT an alphanumeric input device e.g. a keyboard a cursor control device e.g. a mouse and a signal generation device e.g. a speaker .

The data storage device may include a computer readable storage medium on which is stored one or more sets of instructions e.g. software computer instructions embodying any one or more of the methodologies or functions described herein. The instructions also may reside completely or at least partially within the main memory and or within the processor during execution thereof by the computer system the main memory and the processor also constituting computer readable storage media. The instructions may be transmitted or received over a network via the network interface device .

In one example the instructions include instructions for one or more modules of a customer management system e.g. business communication system of and or a software library containing methods that call a business communication system . While the computer readable storage medium machine readable storage medium is shown as an example to be a single medium the term computer readable storage medium should be taken to include a single medium or multiple media e.g. a centralized or distributed database and or associated caches and servers that store the one or more sets of instructions. The term computer readable storage medium also may include any medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying a set of instructions for execution by the machine and that cause the machine to perform any one or more of the methodologies of the present disclosure. The term computer readable storage medium shall accordingly be taken to include but not be limited to solid state memories optical media and magnetic media.

Numerous details are set forth in the foregoing description. However it will be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art having the benefit of this disclosure that the present disclosure may be practiced without these specific details. In some instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form rather than in detail to avoid obscuring the present disclosure.

Some portions of the detailed description have been presented in terms of algorithms and symbolic representations of operations on data bits within a computer memory. Here an algorithm is generally conceived to be a self consistent sequence of steps leading to a desired result. The steps are those requiring physical manipulations of physical quantities. Usually though not necessarily these quantities take the form of electrical or magnetic signals capable of being stored transferred combined compared and otherwise manipulated. It has proven convenient at times for reasons of common usage to refer to these signals as bits values elements symbols characters terms numbers or the like.

It should be borne in mind however that all of these and similar terms are to be associated with the appropriate physical quantities and are merely convenient labels applied to these quantities. Unless specifically stated otherwise as apparent from the following discussion it is appreciated that throughout the description discussions utilizing terms such as computing comparing associating applying transmitting receiving processing or the like refer to the actions and processes of a computer system or similar electronic computing device that manipulates and transforms data represented as physical e.g. electronic quantities within the computer system s registers and memories into other data similarly represented as physical quantities within the computer system memories or registers or other such information storage transmission or display devices.

Certain examples of the present disclosure also relate to an apparatus for performing the operations herein. This apparatus may be constructed for the intended purposes or it may comprise a general purpose computer selectively activated or reconfigured by a computer program stored in the computer. Such a computer program may be stored in a computer readable storage medium such as but not limited to any type of disk including floppy disks optical disks CD ROMs and magnetic optical disks read only memories ROMs random access memories RAMs EPROMs EEPROMs magnetic or optical cards or any type of media suitable for storing electronic instructions.

It is to be understood that the above description is intended to be illustrative and not restrictive. Many other examples will be apparent to those of skill in the art upon reading and understanding the above description. The scope of the disclosure therefore should be determined with reference to the appended claims along with the full scope of equivalents to which such claims are entitled.

