---

title: Cross-cloud computing resource usage tracking
abstract: Systems and methods for cross-cloud computing resource usage tracking. An example method comprises: receiving a request comprising an operational specification of a computing resource; selecting a first provisioning cloud in view of the operational specification; receiving an updated operational specification of the computing resource; receiving a first provisioning offer from the first provisioning cloud and a second provisioning offer from a second provisioning cloud responsive to the updated operational specification; selecting the second provisioning cloud in view of the first and second provisioning offers; providing an interface between the first computing resource and a second computing resource residing in a second provisioning cloud; and tracking resource usage data of the first computing resource across the provisioning clouds.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09306868&OS=09306868&RS=09306868
owner: Red Hat, Inc.
number: 09306868
owner_city: Raleigh
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150105
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 790 229 filed on May 28 2010 the entire content of which is incorporated by reference herein.

The invention relates generally to systems and methods for a cross cloud vendor mapping service in a dynamic cloud marketplace and more particularly to platforms and techniques for registering tracking and reporting a user s software usage history across a dynamically shifting sequence of provisioning clouds selected from a set of marketplace clouds mediated by a cloud marketplace system.

The advent of cloud based computing architectures has opened new possibilities for the rapid and scalable deployment of virtual Web stores media outlets social networking sites and many other on line sites or services. In general a cloud based architecture deploys a set of hosted resources such as processors operating systems software and other components that can be combined together to form virtual machines. A user or customer can request the instantiation of a virtual machine or set of machines from those resources from a central server or cloud management system to perform intended tasks services or applications. For example a user may wish to set up and instantiate a virtual server from the cloud to create a storefront to market products or services on a temporary basis for instance to sell tickets to or merchandise for an upcoming sports or musical performance. The user can subscribe to the set of resources needed to build and run the set of instantiated virtual machines on a comparatively short term basis such as hours or days for their intended application.

Typically when a user utilizes a cloud the user must track the software applications executed in the cloud and or processes instantiated in the cloud. For example the user must track the cloud processes to ensure that the correct cloud processes have been instantiated that the cloud processes are functioning properly and or efficiently that the cloud is providing sufficient resources to the cloud processes and so forth. Due in part to the user s requirements and overall usage of the cloud the user may have many applications and or processes instantiated in a cloud at any given instant and the user s deployment of virtual machines software and other resources can change dynamically over time. In cases the user may also utilize multiple independent clouds to support the user s cloud deployment. That user may further instantiate and use multiple applications or other software or services inside or across multiple of those cloud boundaries and those resources may be used or consumed by multiple or differing end user groups in those different cloud networks.

In addition cloud platforms exist or are envisioned today in which the user s desired virtual machines and software are received from a cloud marketplace system. In a cloud marketplace system the user can transmit a software request to a cloud marketplace system which acts as an intermediary between the user and a set of marketplace clouds. The marketplace clouds can receive the user s software request or request for other resources and submit a bid to the cloud marketplace system to supply or fulfill the software specified by the user. The cloud marketplace system can be configured to select the fulfillment bid from the marketplace clouds that satisfies the user s software request at lowest cost and or based on other decision logic.

In cloud marketplace systems the set of clouds which deliver or provision the user s requested software or other resources can change over time due to various reasons. For one the marketplace clouds themselves may alter or withdraw the applications or other software which they are offering to users of the marketplace. For another the user may wish to update their requested software or change any selection criteria they wish to apply to fulfillment bids received from clouds in the marketplace. As such the set of provisioning clouds that are actually delivering or supporting the user s software deployment and or other resources can shift or change over time as existing clouds drop out and or new clouds are substituted. The user can thus be supported by a sequence or progression of different clouds selected from the cloud marketplace over time.

In the face of a potentially ever shifting sequence of provisioning clouds it may be a practical difficulty or inconvenience for the cloud marketplace system and or user to be presented with a series of new clouds with which to register and from which to extract usage and subscription data for billing or other purposes. It may be desirable to provide systems and methods for cross cloud vendor mapping service in a dynamic cloud marketplace in which the task of registering storing and aggregating the user s software usage history can be performed by an external mapping service configured to capture that history across a series of different provisioning clouds at different times and aggregate billing and subscription data across different software vendors users and clouds.

Embodiments described herein can be implemented in or supported by a cloud network architecture. As used herein a cloud can comprise a collection of hardware software services and or resources that can be invoked to instantiate a virtual machine process or other resource for a limited or defined duration. As shown for example in the collection of resources supporting a cloud can at a hardware level comprise a set of resource servers configured to deliver computing components needed to instantiate a virtual machine process service or other resource. For example one group of resource servers in set of resource servers can host and serve an operating system and or components utilities or interfaces related to that operating system to deliver to a virtual target and instantiate that machine with an image of that operating system. Another group of servers in set of resource servers can accept requests to host computing cycles or processor time memory allocations communications ports or links and or other resources to supply a defined level of processing power or throughput for a virtual machine. A further group of resource servers in set of resource servers can host and serve applications or other software to load on an instantiation of a virtual machine such as an email client a browser application a messaging application or other applications software or services. Other types of resource servers can be used to support one or more clouds .

In embodiments the entire set of resource servers and or other hardware or software resources used to support one or more clouds along with the set of instantiated virtual machines can be managed by a cloud management system . The cloud management system can comprise a dedicated or centralized server and or other software hardware services and network tools that communicate via network such as the Internet or other public or private network with all servers in set of resource servers to manage the cloud and its operation. To instantiate a new or updated set of virtual machines a user can transmit an instantiation request to the cloud management system for the particular type of virtual machine they wish to invoke for their intended application. A user can for instance make a request to instantiate a set of virtual machines configured for email messaging or other applications from the cloud . The virtual machines can be instantiated as virtual client machines virtual appliance machines consisting of special purpose or dedicated task machines as understood in the art and or as other virtual machines or entities. The request to invoke and instantiate the desired complement of virtual machines can be received and processed by the cloud management system which identifies the type of virtual machine process or other resource being requested in that platform s associated cloud. The cloud management system can then identify the collection of hardware software service and or other resources necessary to instantiate that complement of virtual machines or other resources. In embodiments the set of instantiated virtual machines or other resources can for example and as noted comprise virtual transaction servers used to support Web storefronts Web pages and or other transaction sites.

In embodiments the user s instantiation request can specify a variety of parameters defining the operation of the set of virtual machines to be invoked. The instantiation request for example can specify a defined period of time for which the instantiated collection of machines services or processes is needed. The period of time can be for example an hour a day a month or other interval of time. In embodiments the user s instantiation request can specify the instantiation of a set of virtual machines or processes on a task basis rather than for a predetermined amount or interval of time. For instance a user could request a set of virtual provisioning servers and other resources until a target software update is completed on a population of corporate or other machines. The user s instantiation request can in further regards specify other parameters that define the configuration and operation of the set of virtual machines or other instantiated resources. For example the request can specify a specific minimum or maximum amount of processing power or input output I O throughput that the user wishes to be available to each instance of the virtual machine or other resource. In embodiments the requesting user can for instance specify a service level agreement SLA acceptable for their desired set of applications or services. Other parameters and settings can be used to instantiate and operate a set of virtual machines software and other resources in the host clouds. One skilled in the art will realize that the user s request can likewise include combinations of the foregoing exemplary parameters and others. It may be noted that user herein can include a network level user or subscriber to cloud based networks such as a corporation government entity educational institution and or other entity including individual users and groups of users.

When the request to instantiate a set of virtual machines or other resources has been received and the necessary resources to build those machines or resources have been identified the cloud management system can communicate with one or more set of resource servers to locate resources to supply the required components. Generally the cloud management system can select servers from the diverse set of resource servers to assemble the various components needed to build the requested set of virtual machines services or other resources. It may be noted that in some embodiments permanent storage such as optical storage or hard disk arrays may or may not be included or located within the set of resource servers available to the cloud management system since the set of instantiated virtual machines or other resources may be intended to operate on a purely transient or temporary basis. In embodiments other hardware software or other resources not strictly located or hosted in one or more clouds can be accessed and leveraged as needed. For example other software or services that are provided outside of one or more clouds acting as hosts and are instead hosted by third parties outside the boundaries of those clouds can be invoked by in cloud virtual machines or users. For further example other non cloud hardware and or storage services can be utilized as an extension to the one or more clouds acting as hosts or native clouds for instance on an on demand subscribed or event triggered basis.

With the resource requirements identified for building a network of virtual machines the cloud management system can extract and build the set of virtual machines or other resources on a dynamic on demand basis. For example one set of resource servers may respond to an instantiation request for a given quantity of processor cycles with an offer to deliver that computational power immediately and guaranteed for the next hour or day. A further set of resource servers can offer to immediately supply communication bandwidth for example on a guaranteed minimum or best efforts basis for instance over a defined window of time. In other embodiments the set of virtual machines or other resources can be built on a batch basis or at a particular future time. For example a set of resource servers may respond to a request for instantiation of virtual machines at a programmed time with an offer to deliver the specified quantity of processor cycles within a specific amount of time such as the next 12 hours. Other timing and resource configurations are possible.

After interrogating and receiving resource commitments from the set of resource servers the cloud management system can select a group of servers in the set of resource servers that match or best match the instantiation request for each component needed to build the user s requested virtual machine service or other resource. The cloud management system for the one or more clouds acting as the destination for the virtual machines can then coordinate the integration of the identified group of servers from the set of resource servers to build and launch the requested set of virtual machines or other resources. The cloud management system can track the identified group of servers selected from the set of resource servers or other distributed resources that are dynamically or temporarily combined to produce and manage the requested virtual machine population services or other cloud based resources.

In embodiments the cloud management system can generate a resource aggregation table or other record that identifies the various selected sets of resource servers in set of resource servers that will be used to supply the components of the set of instantiated virtual machines services or processes. The selected sets of resource servers can be identified by unique identifiers such as for instance Internet protocol IP addresses or other addresses. In aspects different sets of servers in set of resource servers can be selected to deliver different resources to different users and or for different applications. The cloud management system can register the finalized group of servers in the set resource servers contributing to or otherwise supporting the set of instantiated machines services or processes.

The cloud management system can then set up and launch the initiation process to instantiate the virtual machines processes services and or other resources to be hosted and delivered from the one or more clouds . The cloud management system can for instance transmit an instantiation command or instruction to the registered group of servers in the set of resource servers . The cloud management system can receive a confirmation message back from each registered server in set of resource servers indicating a status or state regarding the provisioning of their respective resources. Various registered resource servers may confirm for example the availability of a dedicated amount of processor cycles amounts of electronic memory communications bandwidth services and or applications or other software prepared to be served and delivered.

As shown for example in after coordination of the sources and configuration of resources including the hardware layer selected software and or other resources the cloud management system can then instantiate a set of virtual machines and or other appliances services processes and or entities based on the resources supplied by servers within set of resource servers registered to support the one or more clouds in a multiple cloud network . According to aspects cloud management system can access or interact with a virtualization module platform or service to instantiate and operate set of virtual machines such as the kernel based virtualization manager KVM available from Red Hat Inc. of Raleigh N.C. or others. In embodiments the cloud management system can instantiate a given number for example 10 500 1000 20 000 or other numbers or instances of virtual machines to populate one or more clouds and be made available to users of that cloud or clouds. In aspects users may access the one or more clouds via the Internet or other public or private networks. Each virtual machine can be assigned an instantiated machine ID that can be stored in the resource aggregation table or other record or image of the instantiated virtual machine population. Additionally the cloud management system can store data related to the duration of the existence or operation of each operating virtual machine as well as the collection of resources utilized by the overall set of instantiated virtual machines .

In embodiments the cloud management system can further store track and manage each user s identity and associated set of rights or entitlements to software hardware and other resources. Each user that operates a virtual machine or service in the set of virtual machines in the cloud can have specific rights and resources assigned and made available to them with associated access rights and security provisions. The cloud management system can track and configure specific actions that each user can perform such as the ability to provision a set of virtual machines with software applications or other resources configure a set of virtual machines to desired specifications submit jobs to the set of virtual machines or other host manage other users of the set of instantiated virtual machines or other resources and or other privileges entitlements or actions. The cloud management system associated with the virtual machine s of each user can further generate records of the usage of instantiated virtual machines to permit tracking billing and auditing of the resources and services consumed by the user or set of users. In aspects of the present teachings the tracking of usage activity for one or more user including network level user and or end user can be abstracted from any one cloud to which that user is registered and made available from an external or independent usage tracking service capable of tracking software and other usage across an arbitrary collection of clouds as described herein. In embodiments the cloud management system of an associated cloud can for example meter the usage and or duration of the set of instantiated virtual machines to generate subscription and or billing records for a user that has launched those machines. In aspects tracking records can in addition or instead be generated by an internal service operating within a given cloud. Other subscription billing entitlement and or value arrangements are possible.

The cloud management system can configure each virtual machine in set of instantiated virtual machines to be made available to users via one or more networks such as the Internet or other public or private networks. Those users can for instance access set of instantiated virtual machines via a browser interface via an application server such as a Java server via an application programming interface API and or other interface or mechanism. Each instantiated virtual machine in set of instantiated virti.P1 machines can likewise communicate with its associated cloud management system and the registered servers in set of resource servers via a standard Web application programming interface API or via other calls protocols and or interfaces. The set of instantiated virtual machines can likewise communicate with each other as well as other sites servers locations and resources available via the Internet or other public or private networks whether within a given cloud in one or more clouds or between those or other clouds.

It may be noted that while a browser interface or other front end can be used to view and operate the set of instantiated virtual machines from a client or terminal the processing memory communications storage and other hardware as well as software resources required to be combined to build the virtual machines or other resources are all hosted remotely in the one or more clouds . In embodiments the set of virtual machines or other services machines or resources may not depend in any degree on or require the user s own on premise hardware or other resources. In embodiments a user can therefore request and instantiate a set of virtual machines or other resources on a purely off premise basis for instance to build and launch a virtual storefront messaging site and or any other application. Likewise one or more clouds can also be formed in whole or part from resources hosted or maintained by the users of those clouds themselves.

Because the cloud management system in one regard specifies builds operates and manages the set of instantiated virtual machines on a logical or virtual level the user can request and receive different sets of virtual machines and other resources on a real time or near real time basis without a need to specify install or configure any particular hardware. The user s set of instantiated virtual machines processes services and or other resources can in one regard therefore be scaled up or down immediately or virtually immediately on an on demand basis if desired. In embodiments the set of resource servers that are accessed by the cloud management system to support the set of instantiated virtual machines or processes can change or be substituted over time. The type and operating characteristics of the set of instantiated virtual machines can nevertheless remain constant or virtually constant since instances are assembled from a collection of abstracted resources that can be selected and maintained from diverse sources based on uniform specifications. Conversely the users of the set of instantiated virtual machines can also change or update the resource or operational specifications of those machines at any time. The cloud management system and or other logic can then adapt the allocated resources for that population of virtual machines or other entities on a dynamic basis.

In terms of network management of the set of instantiate virtual machines that have been successfully configured and instantiated the one or more cloud management systems associated with those machines can perform various network management tasks including security maintenance and metering for billing or subscription purposes. The cloud management system of one or more clouds can for example install initiate suspend or terminate instances of applications or appliances on individual machines. The cloud management system can similarly monitor one or more operating virtual machines to detect any virus or other rogue process on individual machines and for instance terminate an application identified as infected or a virtual machine detected to have entered a fault state. The cloud management system can likewise manage the set of instantiated virtual machines or other resources on a network wide or other collective basis for instance to push the delivery a software upgrade to all active virtual machines or subsets of machines. Other network management processes can be carried out by cloud management system and or other associated logic.

In embodiments more than one set of virtual machines can be instantiated in a given cloud at the same time at overlapping times and or at successive times or intervals. The cloud management system can in such implementations build launch and manage multiple sets of virtual machines as part of the set of instantiated virtual machines based on the same or different underlying set of resource servers with populations of different virtual machines such as may be requested by the same or different users. The cloud management system can institute and enforce security protocols in one or more clouds hosting one or more sets of virtual machines. Each of the individual sets or subsets of virtual machines in the set of instantiated virtual machines can be hosted in a respective partition or sub cloud of the resources of the main cloud . The cloud management system of one or more clouds can for example deploy services specific to isolated or defined sub clouds or isolate individual workloads processes within the cloud to a specific sub cloud or other sub domain or partition of the one or more clouds acting as host. The subdivision of one or more clouds into distinct transient sub clouds sub components or other subsets which have assured security and isolation features can assist in establishing a multiple user or multitenant cloud arrangement. In a multiple user scenario each of the multiple users can use the cloud platform as a common utility while retaining the assurance that their information is secure from other users of the same one or more clouds . In further embodiments sub clouds can nevertheless be configured to share resources if desired.

In embodiments and as also shown in the set of instantiated virtual machines generated in a first cloud in one or more clouds can also interact with a set of instantiated virtual machines services and or processes generated in a second third or further cloud in one or more clouds comprising a multiple cloud network . The cloud management system of a first cloud of one or more clouds can interface with the cloud management system of a second third or further cloud of one or more clouds to coordinate those domains and operate the clouds and or virtual machines services and or processes on a combined basis. The cloud management system of a given cloud on one or more clouds can in aspects track and manage individual virtual machines or other resources instantiated in that cloud as well as the set of instantiated virtual machines or other resources in other clouds.

In the foregoing and other embodiments the user making an instantiation request or otherwise accessing or utilizing the cloud network can be a person customer subscriber administrator corporation organization government and or other entity. In embodiments the user can be or include another virtual machine application service and or process. In further embodiments multiple users or entities can share the use of a set of virtual machines or other resources.

In general the set of marketplace clouds can comprise a set of cloud based networks configured to communicate with the cloud marketplace system and respond to requests for software and or other resources such as the software specification request . In aspects one or more of the clouds in the set of marketplace clouds can respond to the software specification request when notified by the cloud marketplace system by generating a set of fulfillment bids and transmitting the set of fulfillment bids to the cloud marketplace system . In aspects the set of fulfillment bids can be or include an indication of the availability of an application and or other software resource the version of that software the number of instances of that software that the offering cloud can deliver a timer period over which the software can be made available a subscription cost and or other cost for the delivery and use of the software and or other information. In aspects the cloud marketplace system can receive the set of fulfillment bids from one or more cloud based networks in the set of marketplace clouds and can receive and store all such responses from the set of marketplace clouds . In aspects the cloud marketplace system can be configured with decision logic to selected one or more clouds in the set of marketplace clouds to deliver and install software satisfying the software specification request such as for instance logic which selects the set of fulfillment bids promising to deliver at least the minimum application requirements that may be specified in the software specification request and at the lowest subscription cost. Other decision criteria can be used by the cloud marketplace system and in embodiments the cloud marketplace system can query the user of client to receive a selection of the set of fulfillment bids if more than one bid or offer is received or selected.

After selection of the set of fulfillment bids satisfying the software specification request and otherwise identified for selection the cloud marketplace system can register that set of cloud based networks chosen to provision the requested software. In accordance with the present teachings the cloud marketplace system can also register the selected cloud based networks in the set of marketplace clouds chosen to provision the requested software to the cross cloud vendor mapping service . In aspects the cross cloud mapping service can establish build and maintain a cross cloud usage database that can access extract and or record the usage history data for the software delivered from the one or more clouds of the set of marketplace clouds chosen to provision the user s requested software. The cross cloud usage database can record the application and or other software name or other ID version usage times usage durations and or other information related to the user s use of the selected software once that software has been provisioned by the set of marketplace clouds . In aspects it may be noted that the cloud based networks in the set of marketplace clouds selected to deliver the user s selected software can change over time. The dynamic nature of the particular cloud based network s used to provision the user s selected software can be due to a variety of factors including for instance the delivery of updated versions of the set of fulfillment bids from the set of marketplace clouds . When the set of fulfillment bids is updated different cloud based networks in the set of marketplace clouds may offer or bid to deliver the selected software and or related resources under different or updated terms leading to a reselection of the cloud based networks in the set of marketplace clouds to be used to provision the client and or other machines. In aspects the cross cloud mapping service can automatically continue to track the usage of the user s selected software in the set of marketplace clouds across the dynamic progression of different provisioning clouds in the set of marketplace clouds without a need to reset or re register the user the client the cloud marketplace system and or other parameters related to the tracking of the user s software consumption.

More particularly and as shown for example in over time the marketplace engine may be presented with an updated or reconfigured set of fulfillment bids from the constituent clouds of the set of marketplace clouds . The set of fulfillment bids can be updated for example due to the expiration of a previous provisioning commitment by one or more of the set of dynamically re selected provisioning clouds by a change in the available software complement of the set of fulfillment bids by a changed or updated software specification request transmitted by the user of the client and or due to other reasons or factors. The receipt of an updated software specification request and or updated set of fulfillment bids can lead to the cloud marketplace system generating a new set of selections from the set of marketplace clouds . In aspects the process of re selecting a set of cloud based networks from the set of marketplace clouds can generate or produce a set of dynamically re selected provisioning clouds individual components or subsets of which can reflect the cloud based network or networks selected over given intervals of time to provision the user s selected software specified by the software specification request . In aspects the software specification request can be re selected or re configured at regular and or irregular intervals of time and or combinations of the same. In aspects the process of substituting or updating the software specification request from the marketplace engine can be conducted on a transparent basis without notification or display of the changes in underlying cloud support to the user. In aspects the user of the client can continue to use the one or more applications and or other software they have selected without interruption.

In aspects as shown as the software specification request are dynamically updated or reconfigured the cross cloud mapping service can register track and compile the usage history of the user s selected software in the cross cloud usage database . That is in aspects the cross cloud mapping service can register with each successive cloud set in software specification request identify the user the user s application s and or other data and extract and store the usage history from those cloud sets for instance in a usage aggregation table and or other data structure or data store. In aspects the resulting usage aggregation table can thereby build in one storage location the usage history for the user s selected software across all of the software specification request at different times and capturing that history for any one or more applications and or other software the user may select and receive from the set of marketplace clouds . It may be noted that in aspects different clouds in the software specification request may appear more than once at different times and or over different intervals as successive or updated bids from those cloud based networks are received and those clouds are selected or de selected. Because in one regard the processing needed to track capture storage and aggregate the usage aggregation table and or other information is abstracted to the cross cloud mapping service it may be noted that the cloud marketplace system need not maintain or store that type of data independently in storage association with that system. The cloud marketplace system can thereby act as a generator of one or more sets of marketplace clouds and generate multiple sets of marketplaces without a need to register and track usage history data for individual users each time a set of dynamically re selected provisioning clouds in a set of marketplace clouds is formed and or arrange configure or test that service for each marketplace that is built. In addition the cross cloud mapping service can be configured to track the software usage for a user application and or vendor in the set of marketplace clouds over an extended or indefinite period of time whether that usage is on a continuous near continuous and or intermittent basis as the set of fulfillment bids is received and or other conditions change.

In the cloud marketplace system can receive the set fulfillment bids from those cloud based networks in the set of marketplace clouds wishing to respond to the software specification request . In the cloud marketplace system can select an initial set of provisioning clouds in the software specification request based on the software specification request the set of fulfillment bids and or other data. In the cross cloud mapping service can be invoked and or instantiated via the cloud marketplace system . In the cross cloud mapping service can track register store and or record the user s software usage in the software specification request to the usage aggregation table of the cross cloud usage database and or to other local or remote data stores. In the cloud marketplace system can re select re configure and or otherwise update or adjust the software specification request based on an updated set of fulfillment bids an updated software specification request and or other parameters. In the cross cloud mapping service can continue the tracking and or recording of the client s software usage in the software specification request and can aggregate the client software usage history across varying sets of provisioning clouds in the software specification request for the user. In the cross cloud mapping service can generate a client software usage history report a billing and or subscription record and or other output for the user based on the data in the usage aggregation table and or other sources that data being aggregated across the software specification request . In as understood by persons skilled in the art processing can repeat return to a prior processing point jump to a further processing point or end.

The foregoing description is illustrative and variations in configuration and implementation may occur to persons skilled in the art. For example while embodiments have been described in which the cloud management system for a particular cloud resides in a single server or platform in embodiments the cloud management system and associated logic can be distributed among multiple servers services or systems. Similarly while embodiments have been described in which one group of servers within a set of resource servers can provide one component to build a requested set of virtual machines in embodiments one group of resource servers can deliver multiple components to populate the requested set of instantiated virtual machines set of virtual machines and or other machines entities services or resources. For further example while embodiments have been described in which one cross cloud vendor mapping service operates to access track and manage the usage history including the profile of a user s consumption of software and hardware resources in the host cloud in embodiments multiple usage exporting services can operate and cooperate to maintain and transfer usage data on a cross cloud cross vendor or other basis. Other resources described as singular or integrated can in embodiments be plural or distributed and resources described as multiple or distributed can in embodiments be combined. The scope of the invention is accordingly intended to be limited only by the following claims.

