---

title: Restoring connectivity of a user device to an LTE network
abstract: User devices may search for cellular networks that provide the best available service, such as Long-Term Evolution (“LTE”) networks. If such a network is unavailable, the user device may connect to a different network, such as a Code Division Multiple Access 2000 1X network. When connected to the 1X network, the user device may not attempt to search for the LTE network unless the user device enters an idle mode, even if the LTE network becomes available while connected to the 1X network. Systems and/or methods, described herein, may “force” the user device into idle mode, while the user device is actively communicating via the 1X network, so that the user device may search for the LTE network. Forcing the user device into idle mode may include interrupting communications, which may include causing traffic, output by network applications of the user device, to not be transmitted from the user device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09609558&OS=09609558&RS=09609558
owner: Verizon Patent and Licensing Inc.
number: 09609558
owner_city: Basking Ridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150518
---
A user device such as a cellular phone may search for a cellular network that provides the best available service. For example the user device may search for a Long Term Evolution LTE network and or a similar type of network. If such a network is unavailable e.g. if the user device is located in a geographic region in which LTE service is unavailable the user device may search for a different network for which service is available e.g. a 1X network a 2G network a 3G network etc. . The user device for example may attach to a 1X network in order to maintain cellular service when an LTE network or similar network is unavailable. While service interruption may be avoided by way of attaching to the 1X network service quality may suffer when the user device is connected to the 1X network in relation to an LTE network.

The following detailed description refers to the accompanying drawings. The same reference numbers in different drawings may identify the same or similar elements.

In order to avoid service interruption a user device may attach to an alternate network e.g. a Code Division Multiple Access 2000 1X network hereinafter referred to as a 1X network a second generation 2G network a third generation 3G network etc. when a Long Term Evolution LTE network is unavailable e.g. when the user device moves to a geographic location in which the network is unavailable but where a 1X network is available . When a user device attaches to the 1X network the user device may remain attached to the 1X network for longer than necessary even if the LTE network later becomes available e.g. when the user device later moves to a region in which the LTE network is available . For example the user device may remain attached to the 1X network while the user device is actively transmitting and or receiving data via the 1X network. The user device may not attempt to search for the LTE network until the user device enters a 1X idle mode e.g. a mode in which the user device is no longer actively transmitting and or receiving data via the 1X network .

In some implementations the user device may communicate via the 1X network for a substantially long period of time since data transmission via the 1X network can be substantially slower than data transmission via the LTE network. Thus it may take a relatively long period of time for the user device to enter the 1X idle mode and subsequently search for a signal associated with the LTE network and in turn restore a connection with the LTE network . That is the user device may remain attached to the 1X network even if an LTE network is available thereby increasing network load on the 1X network and possibly reducing user satisfaction.

Systems and or methods as described herein may force a user device to enter a 1X idle mode so that the user device may search for the LTE network faster than when the user device is not forced into the 1X idle mode. In turn the user device may attach to the LTE network faster than when the user device is not forced into the 1X idle mode thereby potentially improving user experience and reducing load on the 1X network.

Referring to in accordance with some implementations the user device may enter a suppression mode whereby the user device periodically forces or places itself into a 1X idle mode when connected to the 1X network arrow . . For example after a particular period of time as passed since the user device has been communicating with the 1X network the user device may temporarily discontinue use of the 1X network thereby placing the user device into the 1X idle mode e.g. even if the user device had been actively transmitting and or receiving traffic via the 1X network . For example the user device may place itself into the 1X idle mode by temporarily buffering network data instead of transmitting the data via the 1X network. Once the user device is in the 1X idle mode the user device may search for an LTE signal while in the 1X idle mode arrow . .

Referring to the user device may attach to the LTE network if an LTE signal is found while the user device is in 1X idle mode arrow . . For example the user device may attach to the LTE network if the user device has moved to a location in which an LTE signal is available. The user device may then transmit traffic that had been previously buffered while the user device was in 1X idle mode via the LTE network arrow . .

As such the user device may search for an LTE signal within a shorter amount of time than if the user device was not forced into the 1X idle mode. If an LTE signal is still unavailable the user device may resume communications via the 1X network and the user device may again at a later time force itself into the 1X idle mode in order to search for an LTE network signal within a shorter period of time than if the user device was not forced into 1X idle mode.

As described in greater detail below the user device may periodically place itself into the 1X idle mode at particular intervals e.g. every 15 seconds every 30 seconds etc. . These intervals may steadily increase if an LTE signal is not found. For example the user device may place itself into 1X idle mode after the user device has been communicating via the 1X network for 15 seconds. If an LTE signal is not found after the user device has been placed in 1X idle mode the user device may reestablish a connection with the 1X network and the user device may place itself into the 1X idle mode after the user device has been communicating via the 1X network for 30 seconds. If again an LTE signal is not found after the user device is placed into the 1X idle mode the user device may reestablish a connection with the 1X network and the user device may place itself into the 1X idle mode after 60 seconds.

As further described in greater detail below the user device may discontinue network communications associated with particular applications e.g. applications running in a background of the user device . In some implementations discontinuing network communications of such applications may cause the user device to enter a 1X idle mode and in turn search for an LTE signal. In some implementations the amount of time that the user device spends to search for an LTE signal may be increased in order to increase the chances of the user device locating the LTE signal. In some implementations a threshold LTE signal strength via which the user device may attach to the LTE network may be reduced to increase the chances of the user device attaching to the LTE network.

While the systems and or methods are described in terms of a 1X network in practice the systems and or methods are not so limited. For example the user device may enter a suppression mode when connected to another type of network including or excluding a 1X network e.g. a Global System for Mobile GSM network Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS network an Evolution Data Optimized EVDO network and or other type of network .

User device may include any computation or communication device such as a wireless mobile communication device that is capable of communicating with LTE base station 1X base station and or one or more networks e.g. network s . For example user device may include a radiotelephone a personal communications system PCS terminal e.g. that may combine a cellular radiotelephone with data processing and data communications capabilities a personal digital assistant PDA e.g. that can include a radiotelephone a pager Internet intranet access etc. a smart phone a laptop computer a tablet computer a camera a personal gaming system or another type of computation or communication device. User device may send data to and or receive data from network s e.g. via LTE core network and or 1X core network .

Network selection component may be implemented within user device e.g. as hardware and or software associated with user device . In some implementations network selection component may determine that user device is connected to 1X core network e.g. is attached to 1X base station is in a 1X active mode and or is actively transmitting data via to 1X core network and may cause user device to enter a suppression mode when user device is connected to 1X core network . In suppression mode network selection component may force or may otherwise cause user device to enter 1X idle mode in which user device may search for an LTE signal e.g. using a Better System Reselection BSR technique a More Preferred System Reselection MPSR technique etc. . Additional operations of network selection component are described below with respect to .

LTE Base station may include one or more network devices that receive process and or transmit traffic such as audio video text and or other data destined for and or received from user device . In an example implementation LTE base station may be an eNB device and may be part of LTE core network . LTE base station may receive traffic from and or send traffic to network s via LTE core network which may include a serving gateway a packet data network gateway a mobility management entity and or one or more other devices and may send traffic to and or receive traffic from user device via an air interface.

1X base station may include one or more network devices that receive process and or transmit traffic such as audio video text and or other data destined for and or received from user device . In an example implementation 1X base station may include a Base Transceiver Station BTS a base station subsystem BSS and or a base station controller BSC . 1X base station may receive traffic from and or send traffic to network s via 1X core network which may include a mobile switching center a home location register a visitor location register and or one or more other devices and may send traffic to and or receive traffic from user device via an air interface.

Networks may include one or more wired and or wireless networks. For example PDN may include a cellular network e.g. 1X network a 2G network a third generation 3G network a fourth generation 4G network a fifth generation 5G network a long term evolution LTE network a global system for mobile GSM network a code division multiple access CDMA network an evolution data optimized EVDO network or the like a public land mobile network PLMN and or another network. Additionally or alternatively networks may include a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN a metropolitan network MAN the Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN an ad hoc network a managed Internet Protocol IP network a virtual private network VPN an intranet the Internet a fiber optic based network and or a combination of these or other types of networks.

The quantity of devices and or networks in environment is not limited to what is shown in . In practice environment may include additional devices and or networks fewer devices and or networks different devices and or networks or differently arranged devices and or networks than illustrated in . Also in some implementations one or more of the devices of environment may perform one or more functions described as being performed by another one or more of the devices of environment . Devices of environment may interconnect via wired connections wireless connections or a combination of wired and wireless connections.

1X idle module may receive a notification from network detection module that user device is communication via the 1X network. Based on receiving this notification 1X idle module may force user device to enter a 1X idle mode. For example after a particular period of time has passed after receiving the notification 1X idle module may cause user device to temporarily discontinue use of the 1X network thereby placing the user device into the 1X idle mode. For example 1X idle module may cause user device to discontinue use of software and or hardware e.g. a cellular radio via which user device may use to communicate with the 1X network.

1X idle module may notify network search module that user device is in the 1X idle mode and network search module may direct user device to search for an LTE signal when user device is in the 1X idle mode. If an LTE signal is not found within a predetermined period of time and if the strength of the signal does not satisfy a threshold user device may resume communications via the 1X network and network detection module may again notify 1X idle module that user device is communicating via the 1X network.

Based on receiving this second notification 1X idle module may again place user device in a 1X idle mode but may do so at increasing intervals. As an example 1X idle module may place user device in a 1X idle mode after user device has been communicating via the 1X network for 15 seconds. If an LTE signal is not found user device may reestablish a connection with the 1X network and 1X idle module may place the user device into the 1X idle mode after user device has been communicating with the 1X network for 30 seconds. If again an LTE signal is not found after the user device is placed into the 1X idle mode the user device may reestablish a connection with the 1X network and 1X idle module may place the user device into the 1X idle mode after user device has been communicating via the 1X network after seconds.

Application activity suppression module may cause user device to suppress network activity for applications running on user device . In some implementations application activity suppression module may suppress the network activity when network detection module detects that user device is communicating via the 1X network which may cause user device to enter the 1X idle mode. Suppressing application and or network activity on user device may reduce the network activity on user device to a threshold in which user device is considered to be in a 1X idle mode. 1X idle module may detect that user device is in the 1X idle mode after application activity has been suppressed. For example after network traffic has been suppressed for a threshold period of time user device may enter the 1X idle mode after an idle mode expiration timer has expired e.g. a timer that starts when less than a threshold amount of traffic has been transmitted to and or from user device .

As described in greater detail below with respect to application activity suppression module may direct particular applications on user device to buffer and or drop network traffic when user device is communicating via a 1X network. Additionally or alternatively application activity suppression module may receive network traffic from particular applications and buffer drop this traffic while user device is communicating via the 1X network. In some implementations application activity suppression module may buffer and or drop traffic based on the type of traffic an application from which the traffic originated the type of application from which the traffic originated and or the amount of traffic. For example application activity suppression module may buffer and or drop traffic from high consuming applications e.g. applications that output greater than a threshold amount of traffic such as audio and or video traffic outputted by a video streaming application a video calling application and or other type of application. Additionally or alternatively application activity suppression module may buffer and or drop traffic from low consuming applications e.g. applications that output less than a threshold amount of traffic . Additionally or alternatively application activity suppression module may buffer and or drop traffic from background applications e.g. applications that are running in the background such as applications that synchronize data between user device and an external source .

In some implementations activity suppression module may reduce the amount of traffic outputted by certain applications while user device is communicating via the 1X network. For example traffic from different user device applications may be prioritized. When user device is communicating via the 1X network traffic may be buffered in order of priority. In some situations some buffered traffic may be dropped. For example if a buffer is longer than a threshold length traffic at the end of the buffer e.g. the traffic in the buffer having the relatively lowest priority level may be dropped. As a result relatively low priority traffic may be dropped thereby reducing the amount of traffic transmitted via the 1X network while still permitting relatively high priority traffic to be transmitted.

Network search module may direct user device to search for an LTE signal when user device has been placed into a 1X idle mode. For example network search module may receive an indication from 1X idle module that user device is in a 1X idle mode.

API may cause an application on user device to suppress network activity for particular applications running on user device . When API detects that user device is no longer communicating via the 1X network and is instead communicating via the LTE network API may direct application activity suppression module to discontinue suppressing network activity and output traffic via the LTE network.

As shown in process may include detecting that a user device is communicating via a 1X network block . For example network selection component may detect that user device is connected to a 1X network e.g. in lieu of being connected to an LTE network .

As further shown process may include entering suppression mode block . As described above suppression mode may be a mode in which user device may be placed in or forced to enter 1X idle mode e.g. by dropping and or buffering traffic .

When the user device is in suppression mode process may also include placing the user device into 1X idle mode after a threshold period of time block . For example network selection component may place user device into a 1X idle mode even while user device is actively communicating via the 1X network. In some implementations network selection component may cause user device to enter the 1X idle mode by temporarily suppressing traffic e.g. buffering and or dropping the traffic from user device applications instead of transmitting the traffic via the 1X network. After network traffic has been suppressed for a threshold period of time user device may enter the 1X idle mode after an idle mode expiration timer has expired e.g. a timer that starts when less than a threshold amount of traffic has been transmitted to and or from user device . Additionally or alternatively network selection component may place user device in the 1X idle mode even while user device is actively transmitting traffic via the 1X network e.g. even if the idle mode expiration timer has not started . Additionally or alternatively network selection component may cause user device to enter the 1X idle mode by discontinuing software processes and or the use of hardware used to communicate via the 1X network. As a result of process block user device may enter the idle mode in a shorter amount of time than if user device were not forced into idle mode e.g. if user device were to continue to actively transmit traffic via the 1X network .

In some implementations 1X base station may be unaware that network selection component has placed user device in the idle mode e.g. user device may not notify 1X base station that user device has entered idle mode . Thus base station may continue to send traffic to user device but user device may drop this traffic in order to maintain the idle mode. Additionally or alternatively user device may discontinue use of hardware and or software processes used to receive traffic sent by 1X base station .

Process may further include searching for an LTE network while the user device is in 1X idle mode block . For example network search module may search for the LTE network while user device is in the 1X idle mode e.g. using a BSR technique an MPSR technique etc. . In some implementations network search module may search for the LTE network for a predetermined period of time e.g. 2 seconds 5 seconds 10 seconds etc. . A longer period of time may increase the chances of allowing user device to locate an LTE signal but may also lead to a longer service interruption in the event than an LTE signal is not found.

Process may also include determining whether an LTE network has been found block . If for example the LTE network has been found block YES process may also include connecting to the LTE network block . For example network selection component may direct user device to connect to the LTE network and communicate via the LTE network. As described in greater detail below any traffic that had been previously buffered while user device had been placed into 1X idle mode e.g. in block may be transmitted via the LTE network. In some implementations a signal strength threshold for which user device may attempt to establish a connection with the LTE network may be reduced in order to increase the chances of user device connecting with the LTE network.

If on the other hand an LTE network is not found block NO process may include remaining connected to or reconnecting to the 1X network block . For example network selection component may resume the connection via the 1X network e.g. may place the connection in an active mode . Additionally or alternatively e.g. in situations where the connection between user device and the 1X network has been broken user device may reconnect to the 1X network when an LTE network has not been found within a threshold period of time e.g. to restore network connectivity for user device . Network selection component may then again place user device in the 1X idle mode e.g. by suppressing 1X network activity after a threshold period of time block in order to search for the LTE network block . This threshold period of time may be longer than when user device was originally placed in 1X idle mode. If an LTE network again is not found within a threshold period of time block NO network selection component may again reconnect to the 1X network block and again place user device in the 1X idle mode after a threshold period of time block .

As shown in process may include placing the user device into 1X idle mode after a threshold period of time block . For example network selection component may place user device into 1X idle mode e.g. by suppressing 1X network activity after a threshold period of time such as time t where t is a number greater than 0 .

Process may further include searching for an LTE network while the user device is in 1X idle mode block . For example network search module may search for the LTE network while user device is in the 1X idle mode e.g. using a BSR technique an MPSR technique etc. .

Process may also include determining whether an LTE network has been found block . For example network selection component may determine whether an LTE network has been found after searching for the LTE network while user device is in the 1X idle mode. If for example the LTE network has been found block YES process may also include connecting to the LTE network block . For example network selection component may direct user device to connect to the LTE network and communicate via the LTE network.

If on the other hand an LTE network is not found block NO process may include remaining connected to or reconnecting to the 1X network block . For example network selection component may resume the connection via the 1X network e.g. may place the connection in an active mode . Additionally or alternatively e.g. in situations where the connection between user device and the 1X network has been broken user device may reconnect to the 1X network when an LTE network has not been found within a threshold period of time e.g. to restore network connectivity for user device . Network selection component may then again place user device into the 1X idle mode after a threshold period of time block . For example network selection component may place user device into the 1X idle mode after a threshold period of time such as t n where n is a number greater than zero . Additionally the value of n may be incremented e.g. increased such as by a fixed amount or by a variable amount block . For instance as described below on subsequent respective iterations of blocks the value of n may be different e.g. n may be a greater value on the third iteration than on the second iteration . In some implementations n may be a function of a location of user device . For example if user device is in a rural area n may be relatively larger than if user device was in an urban area.

Process may again include searching for an LTE network while the user device is in the 1X idle mode block . If an LTE network again is not found within a threshold period of time block NO network selection component may remain connected to the 1X network block and again place user device in the 1X idle mode after a threshold period of time block . This threshold period of time may be even longer than when user device was originally placed in 1X idle mode and when user device was placed in the 1X idle mode for a second time. That is the variable n may be increased each time user device reconnects to the 1X network after having had been placed into the 1X idle mode.

As mentioned above an idle mode timer may begin when traffic has not been sent from user device via the 1X network. As also mentioned above upon expiration of the idle mode timer user device may enter a 1X idle mode. Thus after traffic has been suppressed at arrow . user device may enter a 1X idle mode at the expiration of the idle mode timer. In some implementations traffic from particular applications running in a background of user device may be suppressed. Additionally or alternatively traffic from any or all applications running on user device may be suppressed in order to facilitate the reduction of 1X data usage and or the expiration of the idle mode timer thereby causing user device to enter the 1X idle mode and subsequently search for an LTE network e.g. using a BSR technique an MPSR technique etc. .

Bus may include one or more communication paths that permit communication among the components of device . Processor may include a processor microprocessor or processing logic that may interpret and execute instructions. Memory may include any type of dynamic storage device that may store information and instructions for execution by processor and or any type of non volatile storage device that may store information for use by processor .

Input component may include a mechanism that permits an operator to input information to device such as a keyboard a keypad a button a switch etc. Output component may include a mechanism that outputs information to the operator such as a display a speaker one or more light emitting diodes LEDs etc.

Communication interface may include any transceiver like mechanism that enables device to communicate with other devices and or systems. For example communication interface may include an Ethernet interface an optical interface a coaxial interface or the like. Communication interface may include a wireless communication device such as a cellular radio transceiver an infrared IR receiver a Bluetooth radio Bluetooth is a registered trademark of Bluetooth SIG Inc. radio or the like. The wireless communication device may be coupled to an external device such as a remote control a wireless keyboard a mobile telephone etc. In some embodiments device may include more than one communication interface . For instance device may include an optical interface and an Ethernet interface.

Device may perform certain operations relating to one or more processes described above. Device may perform these operations in response to processor executing software instructions stored in a computer readable medium such as memory . A computer readable medium may be defined as a non transitory memory device. A memory device may include space within a single physical memory device or spread across multiple physical memory devices. The software instructions may be read into memory from another computer readable medium or from another device. The software instructions stored in memory may cause processor to perform processes described herein. Alternatively hardwired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions to implement processes described herein. Thus implementations described herein are not limited to any specific combination of hardware circuitry and software.

The foregoing description of implementations provides illustration and description but is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the possible implementations to the precise form disclosed. Modifications and variations are possible in light of the above disclosure or may be acquired from practice of the implementations. For example while series of blocks have been described with regard to the order of the blocks may be modified in other implementations. Further non dependent blocks may be performed in parallel.

It will be apparent that different examples of the description provided above may be implemented in many different forms of software firmware and hardware in the implementations illustrated in the figures. The actual software code or specialized control hardware used to implement these examples is not limiting of the implementations. Thus the operation and behavior of these examples were described without reference to the specific software code it being understood that software and control hardware can be designed to implement these examples based on the description herein.

Even though particular combinations of features are recited in the claims and or disclosed in the specification these combinations are not intended to limit the disclosure of the possible implementations. In fact many of these features may be combined in ways not specifically recited in the claims and or disclosed in the specification. Although each dependent claim listed below may directly depend on only one other claim the disclosure of the possible implementations includes each dependent claim in combination with every other claim in the claim set.

Further while certain connections or devices are shown e.g. in in practice additional fewer or different connections or devices may be used. Furthermore while various devices and networks are shown separately in practice the functionality of multiple devices may be performed by a single device or the functionality of one device may be performed by multiple devices. Further multiple ones of the illustrated networks may be included in a single network or a particular network may include multiple networks. Further while some devices are shown as communicating with a network some such devices may be incorporated in whole or in part as a part of the network.

Some implementations are described herein in conjunction with thresholds. The term greater than or similar terms as used herein to describe a relationship of a value to a threshold may be used interchangeably with the term greater than or equal to or similar terms . Similarly the term less than for similar terms as used herein to describe a relationship of a value to a threshold may be used interchangeably with the term less than or equal to or similar terms . As used herein satisfying a threshold or similar terms may be used interchangeably with being greater than a threshold being greater than or equal to a threshold being less than a threshold being less than or equal to a threshold or other similar terms depending on the context in which the threshold is used.

To the extent the aforementioned implementations collect store or employ personal information provided by individuals it should be understood that such information shall be used in accordance with all applicable laws concerning protection of personal information. Additionally the collection storage and use of such information may be subject to consent of the individual to such activity for example through opt in or opt out processes as may be appropriate for the situation and type of information. Storage and use of personal information may be in an appropriately secure manner reflective of the type of information for example through various encryption and anonymization techniques for particularly sensitive information.

No element act or instruction used in the present application should be construed as critical or essential unless explicitly described as such. An instance of the use of the term and as used herein does not necessarily preclude the interpretation that the phrase and or was intended in that instance. Similarly an instance of the use of the term or as used herein does not necessarily preclude the interpretation that the phrase and or was intended in that instance. Also as used herein the article a is intended to include one or more items and may be used interchangeably with the phrase one or more. Where only one item is intended the terms one single only or similar language is used. Further the phrase based on is intended to mean based at least in part on unless explicitly stated otherwise.

