---

title: Coerced encryption on connected devices
abstract: Techniques for coercing users to encrypt synchronized content stored at their personal computing devices. In some aspects, one or more computing devices receive, from a personal computing device, an indication of whether data stored in at least a portion of a storage device of the personal computing device is protected by disk encryption. In response to determining, based on the indication, that the portion of the storage device is not protected by encryption, synchronization data for synchronizing a copy of one or more synchronized content items stored in the portion of the storage device with another copy of the synchronized content items stored at one or more server computing devices is withheld from the personal computing device until disk encryption on the personal computing device is enabled so as to coerce the user to enable disk encryption on the personal computing device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09654454&OS=09654454&RS=09654454
owner: Dropbox, Inc.
number: 09654454
owner_city: San Francisco
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150817
---
This application claims the benefit under 35 USC 120 as a continuation of application Ser. No. 13 957 003 filed Aug. 1 2013 the entire contents of which is hereby incorporated by reference for all purposes as if fully set forth herein. The applicant s hereby rescind any disclaimer of claim scope in the parent application s or the prosecution history thereof and advise the USPTO that the claims in this application may be broader than any claim in the parent application s .

The disclosed embodiments relate generally to computing devices and more particularly to coercing encryption of digital content synchronized across computing devices.

Historically businesses and organizations have stored sensitive computer data on back office network file servers that were typically accessible only from workstation computers attached to the same local area network as the file server. Preventing loss and theft of sensitive corporate data in these environments was relatively easy because the sensitive data almost never left the bounds of corporate servers and networks.

Today with the wide availability of wireless Internet connectivity virtual private networks VPNs and relatively inexpensive mobile and portable personal computing devices such as smart phones tablet computers and laptop computers more and more sensitive corporate data is being stored outside the relatively secure confines of corporate servers and networks. For example a sales manager may store personal identifying information of customers on his laptop computer or an engineer may store a design specification document for planned product on her mobile phone.

At the same time more and more sensitive data is being stored on portable personal computing devices accidental loss and theft of such devices is on the rise. By some estimates as much as a of all corporate data breaches are the result of lost or stolen portable computing devices such as laptops.

One possible solution to prevent breaches of lost or stolen corporate data is to use the disk encryption feature supported by some personal computing devices. Disk encryption sometimes referred to as full disk encryption FDE or whole disk encryption typically protects sensitive data by encrypting except for perhaps one or more boot portions the device s entire hard drive including the device s operating system and applications and data stored on the hard drive. Typically when the device is booted the user is prompted for an encryption key which enables the operating system to boot and run normally. For example the encryption key may be a password or a pin code. As data is read from the hard disk it is decrypted and stored in main memory e.g. random access memory RAM . Data written to the hard disk is also encrypted on the fly as it is stored. Without access to the encryption key data stored on the hard drive is inaccessible to thieves.

Unfortunately the disk encryption feature of many personal computing devices is optional often requiring manual activation by a user. Corporations and organizations can adopt a policy requiring employees to turn on the disk encryption feature of the devices that store corporate data. However compliance with the policy may be limited. For example some employees may not know how to configure their devices for disk encryption or simply do not want to take the time to configure their devices. A corporate IT administrator can manually configure an employee s device to use disk encryption. However a savvy employee or an unwitting employee may subsequently turn off disk encryption. Moreover for a large organization or business it may impractical to burden the IT department with manually configuring all employee devices with disk encryption. As a result of all this use of disk encryption to secure sensitive corporate data stored on employee devices is currently limited or scattered.

Accordingly there is a need for more efficient and more reliable devices and methods for coercing users to encrypt sensitive data stored on their personal computing devices. Such devices and methods may complement or replace conventional devices and methods for coercing users to encrypt sensitive data stored on their personal computing devices.

The approaches described in this section are approaches that could be pursued but not necessarily approaches that have been previously conceived or pursued. Therefore unless otherwise indicated it should not be assumed that any of the approaches described in this section qualify as prior art merely by virtue of their inclusion in this section.

The above deficiencies and other problems associated with coercing users to encrypt sensitive data stored on their personal computing devices are reduced or eliminated by the disclosed devices and methods.

In accordance with one embodiment a method is performed by one or more computing devices. The method includes receiving from a personal computing device having a storage device an indication of whether at least a portion of the storage device is protected by disk encryption. The portion of the storage device stores a copy of one or more synchronized content items. The method further includes determining based on the indication whether the portion of the storage device is protected by disk encryption. If the portion of the storage device is not protected by disk encryption then synchronization data for synchronizing one or more synchronized content items stored in the portion of the storage device with one or more synchronized content items stored on one or more server computing devices is withheld from the personal computing device. If the portion of the storage device is protected by disk encryption then the synchronization data may be sent to the personal computing device assuming there are no other conditions on sending the synchronization data to the personal computing device that have not been met.

In another embodiment if the portion of the storage device is not protected by disk encryption then data for instructing a user of the personal computing device how to enable disk encryption for at least the portion of the storage device is sent to the personal computing device.

In yet another embodiment the method further includes performing after withholding the synchronization data from the personal computing device receiving from the personal computing device another indication of whether at least the portion of the storage device is protected by disk encryption. In response to receiving the other indication it is determined based on the other indication whether the portion of the storage device is protected by disk encryption. If based on the other indication the portion of the storage device is protected by disk encryption then synchronization data for synchronizing the one or more synchronized content items stored in the portion of the storage device with the one or more synchronized content items stored on the one or more server computing devices is sent to the personal computing device.

In yet another embodiment if the portion of the storage device is not protected by disk encryption then data identifying one or more content items of the one or more content items stored in the portion of the storage device to be removed from the storage device is sent to the personal computing device.

In yet another embodiment the method further includes performing prior to receiving the indication from the personal computing device receiving configuration data for configuring a disk encryption policy associated with the personal computing device. The configuration data indicates that disk encryption of at least the portion of the storage device is required in order to receive synchronization data for synchronizing the one or more synchronized content items stored in the portion of the storage device with the one or more synchronized content items stored on one or more server computing devices.

In yet another embodiment the disk encryption policy is associated in a database with a record of the personal computing device an account record of a user of the personal computing device or a record of a group of accounts of which one account belongs to a user of the personal computing device.

In yet another embodiment the withheld synchronization data pertains to changes to the one or more synchronized content items stored on the one or more server computing devices that were made since a last successful synchronization between the one or more synchronized content items stored in the portion of the storage device and the one or more synchronized content items stored on the one or more server computing devices.

In yet another embodiment the method further includes providing a user interface that allows an administrator to configure a disk encryption policy applicable to the personal computing device.

In yet another embodiment the user interface allows the administrator to apply the configured disk encryption policy to the personal computing device to a user of the personal computing device or to a group of users of which a user of the personal computing device is a member.

The yet another embodiment the indication is received from a synchronization client application installed on the personal computing device.

Thus devices are provided with more efficient and more reliable methods for coercing users to encrypt synchronized sensitive data stored on their personal computing devices. Such devices and methods may complement or replace conventional devices and methods for forcing users to encrypt sensitive data stored on their personal computing devices.

Reference will now be made in detail to embodiments examples of which are illustrated in the accompanying drawings. In the following detailed description numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present invention. However it will be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art that the present invention may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known methods procedures components circuits and networks have not been described in detail so as not to unnecessarily obscure aspects of the embodiments.

Embodiments of the present invention relate to devices and methods for coercing users to encrypt synchronized content stored at their personal computing devices. More particularly embodiments of the invention relate to requiring activation of disk encryption on personal computing devices before sending data to the personal computing devices for updating the synchronized content stored on the personal computing devices. By requiring disk encryption updated synchronized content is stored at the personal computing devices in an encrypted format. This encrypted format provides greater protection against data breaches in the event the personal computing devices are lost or stolen.

In one aspect the present invention relates to devices and methods for determining whether disk encryption is currently enabled for a personal computing device. Such determining may include receiving an indication from the personal computing device that disk encryption is or is not currently enabled. For example the indication may be received in a network message sent from the personal computing device.

Another aspect of the present invention relates to devices and methods for determining whether to send data to a personal computing device for updating synchronized content stored at the personal computing device or whether to withhold the synchronization update from the personal computing device. Such determination may be based on whether disk encryption is currently enabled for the personal computing device. In particular in some embodiments if disk encryption is currently enabled for the personal computing device then the synchronization update is sent to the personal computing device. However if disk encryption is not currently enabled for the personal computing device then the synchronization update is withheld from the personal computing device i.e. not sent to the personal computing device . By withholding synchronization update from the personal computing device the user of the personal computing device does not receive updates to synchronized content until disk encryption is enabled thereby coercing the user to enable disk encryption so that synchronization updates can be received. In some embodiments when disk encryption is not currently enabled instead of sending data for updating synchronized content stored at the personal computing device data for instructing a user of the personal computing device how to enable disk encryption for the personal computing device is sent instead.

Yet another aspect of the present invention relates to providing user interfaces to an administrator user for selectively configuring a disk encryption policy for a group of users. For example the group of users may all be employees of the same company or may all belong to the same division or department within an organization or company. The disk encryption policy can specify which personal computing devices among the group of users will be required to have disk encryption enabled to receive synchronization updates. Through the user interfaces the administrator can set the disk encryption policy on 

Another aspect of the present invention relates to providing user interfaces to a user for selectively configuring a disk encryption policy for the user s own personal computing devices.

The foregoing and other embodiments objects aspects features and advantages of the invention will become more apparent from the following description.

In environment in which embodiments of the invention can operate to coerce encryption of synchronized content include one or more first computing devices personal computing devices and generally and one or more second computing devices collectively referred to herein as content management server which includes one or more third computing devices collectively referred to herein as storage plane server and one or more fourth computing devices collectively referred to herein as control plane server .

In the following description content management server refers to storage plane server and control plane server generally. Further although storage plane server and control plane server are illustrated in as separate sub sets of the computing devices of content management server it should be understood that one or more computing devices of storage plane server may be the same computing devices as one or more computing devices of control plane server . Indeed content management server including storage plane server and control plane server may be implemented on a single computing device. Thus the separate sub sets of computing devices in should be regarding more as a logical separation of content management server functionality rather than a physical one. However storage plane server may be physically separate from control plane server . For example storage plane server may be housed in a separate data center or other hosting facility from control plane server .

Personal computing devices and content management server are in communication with network using communication channels . In some embodiments network involves the Internet. However network need not involve the Internet. For example network may involve only a local area network LAN such a company intranet office network or home network.

Communication channels connect personal computing devices and content management server to network . Communication channels can be wired e.g. twisted pair coaxial cable ITU T G.hn optical fiber etc. or wireless e.g. microwave satellite radio wave infrared etc. . Different personal computing devices may use different types of communication channels or the same type of communication channel to connect to network . For example personal computing device may connect to network over wired Ethernet while personal computing devices and may connected to network over a IEEE 801.11b based radio network. Similarly personal computing devices and content management server may use different types of communications channels or the same type of communication channel to connect to network . In some embodiments where network involves the Internet content management server is housed in one or more data center facilities providing relatively high bandwidth communication channels to network and personal computing devices connect to network using relatively lower bandwidth communication channels .

Communication between personal computing devices and content management server over network can occur according to one or more of a variety of different networking communication protocols e.g. TCP IP UDP HTTP HTTPS . In some embodiments personal computing devices and content management server encrypt some or all communications when communication with each other over network . For example such communications may be encrypted using TSL SSL or other networking layer encryption scheme.

Each of personal computing devices can be virtually any computing device used to access network and content management system . Personal computing devices can be stationary e.g. workstation desktop kiosk computers server computers or portable e.g. laptop computers mobile phones smart phones tablet computers . Personal computing devices can be configured with an operating system e.g. WINDOWS NT based WINDOWS MOBILE FREEBSD LINUX MAX OS X NETBSD OPENBSD DRAGON FLY BSD ANDROID IOS . Further personal computing devices can be configured with software based or hardware based disk encryption capabilities. However some personal computing devices may not have disk encryption capabilities while others do. Thus it not a requirement of the invention that all personal computing devices have disk encryption capabilities.

While three personal computing devices are shown in environment more or less than three personal computing devices may exist in environment in other embodiments. Further personal computing devices can be used by different users and multiple personal computing devices can be used by the same user.

Generally when enabled on a computing device disk encryption cryptographically encrypts using a symmetric key algorithm data stored on the computing device s mass storage device e.g. a hard disk a solid state drive a SD card a flash drive or other non volatile computer storage disk drive card or device . The disk encryption capability of the computing device may encompass multiple of the computer device s mass storage devices e.g. two or more of a hard disk a solid state drive a SD card a Universal Serial Bus USB device . Thus while embodiments hereinafter refer to storage device in the singular the singular forms a storage device and the storage device are intended to include the plural forms as well.

Typically all data stored on the storage device is encrypted except for perhaps a small portion of the storage device where software and data for booting the computing device is stored. For example the master boot record of the storage device may not be encrypted.

Typically when the computing device boots an external encryption key e.g. a username password combination a pin code a biometric etc. is input as part of a pre operating system boot authentication process which is then used to decrypt data stored on the storage device and load the operating system stored thereon. While the operating system is running data written to the storage device is encrypted as it is written to the storage device and data read from the storage device is decrypted as it is read from the storage device. Thus all such data when stored on the storage device is encrypted at all times even when the computing device is powered off so long as disk encryption is enabled.

Disk encryption is distinct from but may be used in conjunction with file encryption sometimes referred to as content encryption . With file encryption one or more individual files or folders of a file system are selected by a user for encryption. In contrast with disk encryption the entire disk partition or volume including file system metadata stored thereon is encrypted. For example a user may enable disk encryption for a particular partition of a disk where a sensitive file is stored. The user may additionally enable file encryption for the sensitive file. This results in two levels of encryption for the sensitive file. In one level the sensitive file is encrypted by disk encryption when stored on the particular partition of the disk. In another level the contents of the sensitive file are encrypted by file encryption. Typically disk encryption and file encryption use separate encryption keys. Thus with the sensitive file example one encryption key may be used by disk encryption to encrypt decrypt the particular partition where the sensitive file is stored and another encryption key may be used by file encryption to encrypt decrypt the contends of the sensitive file.

As an illustration of how one embodiment of the invention may operate in environment a user installs content synchronization software referred to hereinafter as sync client on his or her personal computing device . The sync client is configured to periodically synchronize copies of one or more synchronized content items stored on a storage device of the personal computing device with copies of one or more synchronized content items stored on storage plane server . Periodically in this context means on a regular interval and or in response to a change or changes to a content item copy or content item copies stored at the personal computing device or the storage plane server . For the purposes of providing clear examples the set of one or more synchronized content items stored on the storage device of the personal computing device is referred to hereinafter as the client set and the set of one or more synchronized content items stored on storage plane server is referred to hereinafter as the server set . Other personal computing devices e.g. and may store other client sets that are synchronized with the same server set.

For example personal computing devices and may be used by a first user and personal computing device may be used by a second user. Personal computing devices and may each store a client set each representing a set of synchronized content items the first user and the second user are working on collaboratively and that are synchronized with one another through a corresponding server set stored on storage plane server .

After installation on personal computing device the sync client contacts control plane server in a registration request to register the device with content management server . The registration request may contain device identification information or just device identifier such as for example an alphanumeric character sequence that content management server can use for registration purposes and to track device . The registration request may also contain user account identification information or just account identifier such as for example an e mail address or an alphanumeric character sequence that directly or indirectly identifies a user account with content management system held by a user of device . For security purposes the account identifier and or the device identifier may be encoded and or encrypted in the registration request as part of a security or authentication token.

The registration request may also contain disk encryption information. The disk encryption information may indicate whether the portion of the storage device where the client set is stored is currently protected by disk encryption i.e. disk encryption is currently enabled for at least the portion . The portion of the storage device where the client set is stored may correspond to a partition or volume of the storage device or the entire storage device. However the client set may not consume the entire storage space of the portion. For example the disk encryption information may indicate that the entire storage device save for some boot portions is protected by disk encryption yet the client set may be stored in only a small portion of the entire storage space of the storage device.

The disk encryption information can indicate whether the portion of the storage device where the client set is set is protected by disk encryption in a variety of different ways. For example the disk encryption information may include a binary or Boolean value indicating with one value e.g. 1 or TRUE that the portion of the storage device is protected by disk encryption and indicating with another different value e.g. 0 or FALSE that the portion of the storage device is not protected by disk encryption. Alternatively the disk encryption information may include raw disk encryption and client set information from which control plane server can determine whether the client set is protected by disk encryption. For example the raw disk encryption information may specify partitions or volumes of the storage device that are protected by disk encryption and partitions or volumes of the storage device where the client set is stored.

In some embodiments the disk encryption information indicates whether the device is disk encryption capable. Such information may be used for configuring disk encryption policies. For example such information may be presented to a user in a user interface for selecting which personal computing devices should be required to have disk encryption enabled. It should be noted that disk encryption information can indicate that device is disk encryption capable and also indicate that the portion of the storage device where the client set is stored is not currently protected by encryption. For example the disk encryption capability of the device may not currently be enabled.

The sync client may obtain the disk encryption information or information from which the disk encryption information is derived using an application programming interface API of the underlying operating system of the device . Typically the particular API used to obtain this information will vary between different operating systems. For example an ANDROID operating system may offer a different API for obtaining this information than an IOS operating system.

In response to receiving the registration request control plane servers can use the disk encryption information in the registration request to determine whether the device should be registered in a partially registered state or a fully registered state. In the partial registration state content management server will withhold i.e. not send updates to the server set from the device . However device may receive other data and services from content management server in the partially registered state. In the fully registered state device may receive updates to the server set from content management server . Devices that are partially registered and devices that are fully registered may be indicated as such in user interfaces provided by content management system .

Determination of whether the device should be registered partial or full can be based on a disk encryption policy. The policy may be associated with a group of accounts an individual account or individual device. For example the policy association may be stored in a database part of or accessible to control plane server .

When associated with a group of accounts the policy may specify that all fully registered devices of all accounts in the group are required to have disk encryption enabled. Accordingly when a registration request is received for an account that is in the group control plane server determines whether the device sending the request should be partially registered or fully registered based on the disk encryption information in the registration request and the disk encryption policy associated with the group of account. For example if the disk encryption policy requires disk encryption to be enabled and the disk encryption information in the registration request indicates that disk encryption is not enabled then control plane server registers the device as partially registered.

When associated with an individual account the disk encryption policy may specify that all registered devices of the account are required to have disk encryption enabled. For example if a user registers two devices and the disk encryption policy associated with the user s account may require all of the user s devices to have disk encryption enabled. For example if the user attempts to register a new device after partially or fully registering devices and the disk encryption policy associated with the user s account would require that the new device also have disk encryption enabled.

When associated with an individual device the disk encryption policy may specify that the individual device is required to have disk encryption enabled. For example a disk encryption policy requiring disk encryption can be associated portable devices e.g. cell phones smart phones tablets laptops that are more likely to be lost or stolen then stationary devices e.g. workstations and desktop computers .

According to some embodiments the user of a personal computing device is coerced into enabling disk encryption for at least the portion of the storage device of the personal computing device where the client set is stored by withholding synchronization data for updating the client set with recent updates to the server set. The withheld synchronization data can be any content item data or synchronization metadata thereof used by the sync client to synchronize content items of the client set with content items of the server set. For example control plane server may withhold i.e. not send synchronization data used by the sync client to determine which content items or portions thereof of the client set are out of date with respect to the server set. As another example control plane server may withhold i.e. not send synchronization data used by the sync client to determine which content item data to download from storage plane server for updating content items of the client set. In some embodiments such withheld synchronization data identifies a block or blocks of a content item or content items of the server set. In some embodiments a content item block is up to four 4 megabytes in size.

The disk encryption policy applicable to a personal computing device may change over time. For example when device registers with control plane server the disk encryption policy applicable to device may not require disk encryption at the time of registration. However an administrator may subsequently change the applicable disk encryption policy to require disk encryption for device at a later time thereafter.

In some embodiments control plane server checks the disk encryption policy applicable to a device every time the sync client on the device initiates synchronization with control plane server . As mentioned such synchronization may be initiated by the sync client on a periodic basis for the purposes of keeping the client set synchronized with the server set either on a regular interval and or after changes to one or both of the client set and sever set. The control plane server withholds synchronization data depending on the then current setting of the disk encryption policy. In this way if the applicable disk encryption policy is changed to require disk encryption after the device registers with control plane server the user can still be coerced into enabling disk encryption on the device by withhold synchronization data pertaining to changes to the server set that were made after the applicable disk encryption policy is changed.

In some embodiments the disk encryption policy applicable to a device may be configured by an administrator to remove selected content items of the client set from the device when the disk encryption policy requires disk encryption to be enabled and disk encryption is not currently enabled on the device . By removing such unprotected content items from the device the unprotected content items are not stored on the device unencrypted against the display encryption policy.

In some embodiments control plane server instructs the sync client to remove selected content items of the client set from the device after determining that the device s current disk encryption configuration is in violation of the disk encryption policy. For example control plane server may instruct the sync client to remove content items from the client set in response to a registration request or in response to the sync client initiating a synchronization. Control plane server may also push a remove command to the sync client over a long lived network connection. For example control plane server may push the remove command using a HyperText Transfer Protocol HTTP long polling technique.

It should be noted that removal of selected content items from the client set may only be temporary. For example if the device is subsequently configured to enable disk encryption then the removed content items may be restored to the device at the next synchronization with the server set. Also removing the content items from the client set may not remove the corresponding content items from the server set.

In some embodiments when the disk encryption policy applicable to a device requires disk encryption and the device does not have disk encryption enabled in addition to withholding synchronization data from the device control plane server sends information pertaining to instructing the user of device to enable disk encryption on the device . Such instructional information sent by control plane server can be an indication that instructions for enabling disk encryption should be presented to the user or the actual instructions themselves. The instructional information may be received by the sync client on the device which can then act on the information. For example the sync client can cause a web browser installed on the device to launch and present a web page that presents information for enabling disk encryption on the device

For some devices it may be possible to automatically enable disk encryption for the user. For example the operating system on the device may offer an Application Programming Interface API which can be invoked or called to enable disk encryption on the device . For these devices the web page window displayed in response to receiving instructional information from control plane server may provide a link that the user can activate to automatically enable disk encryption. A wireframe mock up example of such a window is shown in . Here window includes the same text message as shown in window of but instead of a link that provides further detailed instructions to the user on how to manually enable disk encryption when activated link is provided. Link when activated causes disk encryption to be automatically enabled on the device . For example activation of link can cause the sync client or other software program installed on the device to invoke the operating system API for enabling disk encryption on the device . Note that even though link automatically enables disk encryption for the user some user interaction may be required to configure the device with disk encryption. For example the user may be prompted to enter an encryption key password during the enablement process.

In some embodiments content management server provides a web based user interface that allows an administrator user to selectively configure disk encryption policies applicable to a group of users. The administrator user may be responsible for administering the disk encryption policies for the group of users on behalf of a company or organization for example. The group of users may be members or employees of the company or organization. As mentioned previously through the user interfaces the administrator can set the disk encryption policy on 

Although not shown in user interface can also indicate whether each registered device is partially or fully registered. For example a registration status icon text or other registration status indicator can be displayed on user interface in the row corresponding to a device listing to indicate the current registration status.

User interface indicates whether disk encryption is currently enabled on Jane s registered devices based on the latest indication received from the devices. In this example disk encryption is currently enabled on Jane s laptop but not on Jane s tablet.

User interface also provides a number of checkboxes for selectively requiring disk encryption. In particular the administrator can selectively require disk encryption on a per device basis by selecting one or both of checkboxes and or . Specifically selecting checkbox will require disk encryption on Jane s laptop and selecting checkbox will require disk encryption on Jane s Tablet. Alternatively the administrator can require disk encryption on a per user basis for all of Jane s devices including those not yet registered by selecting checkbox

In some embodiments content management server provides a web based user interface that allows a user to selectively configure a disk encryption policy applicable to the user s own personal computing devices. Similar to the administrator user interface of the user interface can allow the user to require disk encryption for all of the user s devices including the user s devices that have yet to be registered with content management server . Alternatively the user interface can allow the user to require disk encryption on one or more of the user s devices that the user selects. By providing this user interface a user can effectively set a reminder to enable disk encryption on their devices. Specifically by withholding synchronization data from devices that the user has configured to require disk encryption the user is reminded to enable disk encryption on such a device upon noticing or being notified that the device is not receiving synchronization data.

Computer system also includes memory such as a random access memory RAM or other dynamic storage device coupled to bus for storing information and instructions to be executed by processor . Memory also may be used for storing temporary variables or other intermediate information during execution of instructions to be executed by processor . Such instructions when stored in non transitory storage media accessible to processor render computer system into a special purpose machine that is customized to perform the operations specified in the instructions.

Computer system further includes a read only memory ROM or other static storage device coupled to bus for storing static information and instructions for processor .

Storage device such as a solid state drive a magnetic disk or an optical drive is provided and coupled to bus for storing information and instructions.

Computer system can be coupled via bus to display such as a liquid crystal display LCD for displaying information to a computer user.

One or more physical input devices for example an alphanumeric keyboard or other keyboard or keypad can be coupled to bus for communicating information and command selections to processor . Another possible type of input device is a cursor control such as a mouse a trackball or cursor direction keys for communicating direction information and command selections to processor and for controlling cursor movement on display . This input device typically has two degrees of freedom in two axes a first axis e.g. x and a second axis e.g. y that allows the device to specify positions in a plane. Yet another possible type of input device is a touch sensitive surface such as one that overlays display to form a touch screen display for communicating direction and other information and command selections to processor . The touch sensitive surface typically has a sensor or set of sensors that accepts input from a user based on haptic and or tactile contact.

One or more audio output devices for example headphones and or audio speakers can be coupled to bus for outputting audible information to a computer user.

Network interface provides a two way data communication establishing a network link to a local network . Network link may be wired e.g. an Ethernet wire link or wireless e.g. a cellular wireless link or WiFi wireless link . Local network can be a local Area network LAN a wide area network WAN or other network that is communicatively coupled to the Internet or one or more other data networks for communicating with one or more other computing devices that are also linked to the Internet local network and or the one or more other data networks.

Computer system can send messages and receive data including program code through the network s and or network link and network interface . For example a server might transmit requested code for an application program through the Internet local network and network interface . The received code may be executed by processor as it is received and or stored in storage device or other non volatile storage for later execution.

Computer system may implement the techniques described herein using customized hard wired logic one or more application specific integrated circuits ASICs or filed programmable arrays FPGAs firmware and or program logic which in combination with the computer system causes or programs computer system to be a special purpose machine.

According to one embodiment the techniques herein are performed by computer system in response to processor executing one or more sequences of one or more instructions contained in main memory . Such instructions may be read into memory from another storage medium such as storage device . Execution of the sequences of instructions contained in memory causes processor to perform the process steps described herein.

In alternative embodiments hard wired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions.

The terminology used in the description of the invention herein and the appended claims is for the purpose of describing or claiming particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting of the invention.

As used in the description of the invention and the appended claims the terms first second etc. may be used herein to describe various elements these elements should not be limited by these terms. These terms are only used to distinguish one element from another. For example a first device could be termed a second device and similarly a second device could be termed a first device without departing from the scope of the present invention. The first device and the second device are both devices but they are not the same device.

As used in the description of the invention and the appended claims the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise.

It will also be understood that the term and or as used in the description refers to and encompasses any and all possible combinations of one or more of the associated listed items.

It will be further understood that the terms includes including comprises and or comprising when used in this specification and the appended claims specify the presence of stated features integers steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps operations elements components and or groups thereof.

As used this description and the appended claims the term if may be construed to mean when or upon or in response to determining or in response to detecting depending on the context. Similarly the phrase if it is determined or if a stated condition or event is detected may be construed to mean upon determining or in response to determining or upon detecting the stated condition or event or in response to detecting the stated condition or event depending on the context.

The term content item as used herein refers generally to any logical collection of computer data. Data of a content item can be formatted in a variety of different digital content types including document types e.g. MICROSOFT WORD PDF MICROSOFT EXCEL etc. image types e.g. JPEG TIFF GIF PNG etc. audio types e.g. ACC MPEG 3 etc. video types e.g. MPEG 2 etc. archive types e.g. ZIP etc. or any other type of computer data.

The term non transitory media as used herein refers to any media that store data and or instructions that cause a machine to operation in a specific fashion. Such non transitory media may comprise non volatile media and or volatile media. Non volatile media includes for example solid state devices optical drives and magnetic disks such as storage device . Volatile media includes dynamic memory such as memory . Common forms of non transitory media include for example floppy disks flexible disks hard disks solid state drives magnetic tape CD ROMs flash drives or any other electronic magnetic or optical data storage media and a RAM a PROM an EPROM a FLASH EPROM a NVRAM or any other memory chip or cartridge. Non transitory media is distinct from but may be used in conjunction with transmission media. Transmission media participates in transferring information between non transitory media. For example transmission media includes coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics including the wires that comprise bus . Transmission media can also take the form of acoustic or light waves such as those generated during radio wave and infra red data communications.

In this description the term software and program is meant to include firmware applications and or sets of instructions stored in memory for example memory and or storage device which can be executed by one or more processors for example processor . In some embodiments multiple software aspects may be implemented as sub parts of a larger program while remaining distinct software aspects. In some embodiments multiple software aspects can be implemented as separate programs. Finally any combination of separate programs that together implement a software aspect described herein is within the scope of the disclosure. In some embodiments the software programs when installed to operate on one or more computing devices define one or more specific machine implementations that execute and perform the operations of the software programs. A software program also known as a program software application or just application script or code can be written in any form of programming language including compiled or interpreted languages declarative or procedural languages and it can be deployed in any form including as a standalone program or as a module component subroutine object or other unit suitable for use in a computing environment. A computer program can correspond to a file in a file system. A program can be stored in a portion of a file that holds other programs or data e.g. one or more scripts stored in a markup language document in a single file dedicated to the program in question or multiple coordinate files e.g. files that store one or more modules sub programs or portions of code . A computer program can be deployed to execute on one computer or on multiple computers that are located at one site or distributed across multiple sites and interconnected by a communication network.

In the foregoing specification embodiments of the invention have been described with reference to numerous specific details that may vary from implementation to implementation. The specification and drawings are accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense. The sole and exclusive indicator of the scope of the invention and what is intended by the applicants to be the scope of the invention is the literal and equivalent scope of the set of claims that issue from this application and any continuing applications thereof including continuations continuations in part and divisionals thereof in the specific form in which such claims issue including any subsequent correction.

In one alternative embodiment instead of coercing users to enable disk encryption on their personal computing devices by withholding content item synchronization data users are coerced to enable anti virus software pin code authentication password authentication and or network firewall software on their personal computing devices by withhold content synchronization data.

