---

title: Adaptive authentication
abstract: Provided is adaptive authentication that utilizes relational analysis, sentiment analysis, or both relational analysis and sentiment analysis to facilitate an authentication procedure. The relational analysis evaluates a transactional profile and a behavioral profile of the user. The sentiment analysis evaluates available user information that is obtained from various forms of Internet activity related to the user. A level of authentication is selectively modified based on a result of the relational analysis and/or the sentiment analysis.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09654477&OS=09654477&RS=09654477
owner: Wells Fargo Bank, N. A.
number: 09654477
owner_city: San Francisco
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150505
---
Authentication is the process of determining whether a person is the actual person they are asserting themselves to be. A common type of authentication is based on logon passwords or other credentials. As it relates to financial institutions for example a customer may access and transact with one or more of the customer s financial institution s accounts through a variety of channels. As non limiting examples a customer s physical credit card may be used to make purchases at a point of sale and or a credit card number may be used to make purchases online. In other examples the customer s account information may be accessed and viewed through a financial institution website the customer may manage an account through a telephone interaction and so on. Although these options provide increased access and convenience for the customer each of these channels also provide opportunities for fraudulent access. On the user side an occurrence of fraud e.g. compromised financial data monetary loss identity theft and so on as well as the need to provide authentication information e.g. enter a temporary pass code or one time password have been blamed for user dissatisfaction. On the network side malware that operates to intercept the temporary pass code or one time password makes it increasingly difficult to authenticate devices and users associated with the devices with a high degree of confidence.

The following presents a simplified summary of the innovation in order to provide a basic understanding of some aspects of the innovation. This summary is not an extensive overview of the innovation. It is not intended to identify key critical elements of the innovation or to delineate the scope of the innovation. Its sole purpose is to present some concepts of the innovation in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.

An aspect relates to a system that includes a processor that executes computer executable components stored in a memory. The computer executable components may include an evaluation manager component that in response to an indication of an attempt to perform an interaction within a secure site performs at least one of a relational analysis or a sentiment analysis. The relational analysis is performed as a function of a transactional profile and a behavioral profile. The sentiment analysis is performed as a function of available user information. The computer executable components may include an authorization manager component that modifies a level of authentication for the interaction based on a policy associated with the relational analysis or the sentiment analysis.

Another aspect relates to a method that may include accessing by a system comprising a processor a context associated with a user identity in response to a request to perform an interaction within a secure network. The method may also include comparing by the system the context with a current context. The current context is the context determined at substantially the same time as the request to perform the interaction is received. Further the method may include modifying by the system a level of authentication for the interaction as a result of the comparing and selectively allowing by the system the interaction based on a result of an authentication.

Yet another aspect relates to a computer readable storage device storing executable instructions that in response to execution cause a system comprising a processor to perform operations. The operations may include performing in response to an indication of an attempt to perform an interaction within a secure site at least one of a relational analysis as a function of a transactional profile and a behavioral profile or a sentiment analysis as a function of available user information. The operations may also include modifying a level of authentication for the interaction based on a policy associated with the relational analysis or the sentiment analysis and selectively allowing the interaction based on a result of an authentication procedure.

To the accomplishment of the foregoing and related ends certain illustrative aspects of the innovation are described herein in connection with the following description and the annexed drawings. These aspects are indicative however of but a few of the various ways in which the principles of the innovation may be employed and the subject innovation is intended to include all such aspects and their equivalents. Other advantages and novel features of the innovation will become apparent from the following detailed description of the innovation when considered in conjunction with the drawings.

The innovation is now described with reference to the drawings. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the subject innovation. It may be evident however that the innovation may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing the innovation.

With continuing reference to the communications environment includes an initiating device that is attempting to perform one or more interactions within a secure site . The initiating device may be a communication device e.g. desktop computer laptop computer smart phone and so on . The secure site may be a network associated with an entity for example. As used herein an entity refers to a financial institution such as a bank persons operating on behalf of the financial institution and or communication devices managed by the financial institution and or the persons operating on behalf of the financial institution. Additionally or alternatively the entity may be a third party monitoring source security provider or another type of entity that has a trusted relationship with the financial institution.

Also illustrated in the environment is an authorization entity . Although illustrated as separate from the secure site according to some implementations the authorization entity may be communicatively coupled to the secure site . For example the authorization entity may be a trusted third party that performs authorization functions on behalf of the secure site e.g. an entity associated with the secure network . In another example the secure site may be configured to perform the authorization functions e.g. the authorization entity is included in the secure site .

According to various aspects disclosed herein enhanced adaptive authentication is performed in real time. The enhanced adaptive authentication may include real time relational analysis real time sentiment analysis or both real time relational analysis and real time sentiment analysis. The enhanced adaptive authentication may be applied when a user e.g. through the initiating device attempts to log in to access a website or other secure site such as a financial institution website from an unrecognized device or location. The enhanced adaptive authentication may also be applied when a user or the initiating device is attempting to log in through an unrecognized or suspicious Internet Protocol IP address such as for example when the user is making an out of band log in attempt. In another example the adaptive authentication may be applied based on user preferences preferences of the secure site or other considerations.

The various aspects disclosed herein extend beyond traditional systems that deploy a risk based approach for authentication of users. The various aspects disclosed herein take into account the risk not just from a limited data source controlled by a single entity instead the various aspects perform real time data mining. The data mining may extract key logic based risk elements. Further systemic methodologies may be applied to identify a relational and relative risk of the user. Further identified risks for users with certain parameters may be identified.

According to some implementations the user may be provided the choice to dynamically adjust the security choices when accessing their accounts. The requested adjustment of the risk settings may be systemically consumed by risk monitoring systems which may apply relevant policies to authenticate the user at the correct authentication level.

According to an implementation a user logs into an online banking website e.g. in a desktop environment . The user initiates a non monetary interaction or a monetary interaction. For a non monetary interaction the user may be updating his profile information e.g. address phone number and so on changing features or options and so forth. For a monetary interaction the user may be viewing balances transferring money wiring money making a person or performing other financial transactions. The system may make a determination based on a user s previous interaction al profile and or previous behavior profile e.g. historical information in comparison with the user s current transaction request or behavior to determine if the current interaction is being made by the authorized user. In another example a public profile of a user may be mined in real time to determine if the current activity of the user matches an expected activity based on the public profile. If there is not a match a series of questions may be presented to the user during the authentication process.

The system may include at least one memory that may store computer executable components and or computer executable instructions. The system may also include at least one processor communicatively coupled to the at least one memory . The at least one processor may facilitate execution of the computer executable components and or the computer executable instructions stored in the memory . The term coupled or variants thereof may include various communications including but not limited to direct communications indirect communications wired communications and or wireless communications.

It is noted that although the one or more computer executable components and or computer executable instructions may be illustrated and described herein as components and or instructions separate from the memory e.g. operatively connected to the memory the various aspects are not limited to this implementation. Instead in accordance with various implementations the one or more computer executable components and or the one or more computer executable instructions may be stored in or integrated within the memory . Further while various components and or instructions have been illustrated as separate components and or as separate instructions in some implementations multiple components and or multiple instructions may be implemented as a single component or as a single instruction. Further a single component and or a single instruction may be implemented as multiple components and or as multiple instructions without departing from the example embodiments.

The system may also include an evaluation manager component that in response to an indication of an attempt to perform an interaction within the secure site may be configured to perform real time analysis. The indication may be received from the initiating device or from the secure site .

The real time analysis may be real time relational analysis and or real time sentiment analysis. To perform the relational analysis the evaluation manager component may be configured to obtain from one or more sources data related to the user of the initiating device . For example the one or more sources may have data related to the user s online activity profile. An authentication manager component may be configured to compare the user s online activity profile with a behavioral profile of the user when the user communicates with the secure site e.g. through the initiating device when the attempt to perform the interaction is initiated .

For example the evaluation manager component may be configured to establish relationships with the one or more sources which may be one or more databases risk systems or other types of sources. The relationship established may be between the user s transactional profile and the user s behavioral profile. For example the relationship may be established within the user s online activity profile which in on the Internet versus the behavioral profile of the user when the user communicates with the secure site . The authentication manager component may compare the differences between the two profiles and if the profiles are similar a lower level of authentication or no further authentication may be needed for the user to interact with the secure site . However if there are differences between the two profiles a higher level of authentication may be needed in order for the user to access the secure site .

To perform sentiment analysis the evaluation manager component may be configured to identify the available public information of the user activity from the one or more sources . At least a set of the sources used for the sentiment analysis may be the same sources used for the relational analysis or may be different sources. The evaluation manager component may be configured to mine the public information in real time. Further the authentication manager component may be configured to evaluate the public information and compare the information with current information of the user.

For example the evaluation manager component may be configured to identify the available public information of the user activity from the Internet. Additionally or alternatively the evaluation manager component may be configured to extract information through relationships with other entities e.g. sources that have the information related to the user activity. The information may be what is occurring on the public domain of a user s social media for example.

As indicated the information may be mined in real time. By obtaining the information the system may be configured to identify the user s risk profile to be associated with each factor. For example a factor may be that a user has just posted on her social media that she is traveling to a particular location or made some comments. The authentication manager component may be configured to use that information in real time to make the determination whether or not the user s current activity matches what the user is posting on her social media in the public domain or privately provided the system received prior approval to mine the non public information . In accordance with one or more implementations users may opt out of providing personal information demographic information location information proprietary information sensitive information or the like in connection with data gathering aspects.

The evaluation manager component may be configured to obtain the necessary information based on receipt of the indication from the initiating device . Alternatively the indication may be received from the secure site . The indication provides a notice to the evaluation manager component that the initiating device is attempting to interact with the secure site . The interaction may be a non monetary interaction e.g. user profile preferences accessing forms and so on or a monetary interaction e.g. viewing account balances or transactions transferring money wiring money making a payment depositing funds and other financial transactions . The communication between the system and the initiating device may be an out of band communication e.g. a communication on a different channel or by a different method than the channel or method of the primary communication channel .

Based on the evaluation performed by the authentication manager component a level of authentication for the interaction may be modified. For example when relational analysis is performed the authentication level may be increased based on a determination that the transactional profile does not match the behavioral profile. Alternatively when the transactional profile is substantially the same as the behavioral profile the authentication level may be decreased e.g. less or no authentication is needed .

In another example when sentiment analysis is performed the authentication level may be increased based on a determination that the available user information does not match a current activity of the user. Alternatively when the available user information substantially matches a current activity of the user an authentication level may be decreased.

To overcome man in the middle and other unauthorized access and or interactions with the secure site a communication component may be configured to receive the interaction indication . For example after logging into the secure site the initiating device or user thereof may attempt to perform an interaction with the secure site . The interaction may be a monetary transaction or a non monetary transaction for example. The interaction indication may be received from the initiating device the secure site or an associated device.

Based on the interaction indication a relational component may be configured to access at least one source to obtain data related to a user s transactional profile. Additionally or alternatively a sentiment component may be configured to extract available public information related to the user activities and use the information to determine whether the user of the initiating device is the authorized user.

For example a user may have posed on her social media site that she will be traveling from Maine to Tennessee on October 20 and will return on October 27. On October 24 the user may have initiated an interaction with the secure site. Thus the sentiment component has the travel information from the social media site and compares the information with a current location of the user e.g. through a global positioning system internet protocol information or through other manners of identifying a location of the initiating device . If the current location of the user when then interaction is attempted is indicated as Knoxville Tenn. the expected location of the user matches the current location. Therefore it may be inferred that the user performing the interaction is in fact the expected user. In this case the authentication manager component may have an elevated level of confidence and may decrease the level of authentication necessary to complete the interaction. In some cases the authentication manager component may determine the level of confidence is above a threshold level and therefore no further authentication is necessary.

However if the current location indicates the user device is located in Oregon it may indicate that the user attempting the transaction is not the authorized user. Alternatively it may indicate the user has changed her travel plans. Thus the authentication manager component may have a lower level of confidence and may request a higher level of authentication. For example one or more security questions may need to be answered correctly in order for the initiation attempt to be approved. The levels of authentication may be determined based on the level of confidence as determined by the authentication manager component .

According to some implementations the evaluation manager component mines the available user information from a social network associated with an identity of the user. For example the social network may be identified based on information already known to the secure site . Such information may include an email alias a telephone number a name an internet protocol address or other machine identity information and other forms of data that may be uniquely associated with the user. In some implementations a single sign on used across multiple websites may be utilized to verify the user. The information may be known to the secure site based on data provided by the user at initiation of a relationship between the user and the secure site or at a different time.

The evaluation manager component may mine the social network in real time such that after information is posted the information is captured by the system and retained at least for a certain period of time for later authentication purposes. The information retained may be deleted after a certain amount of time e.g. a day a week a month and so on or based on other criteria e.g. the information provides an indication of when an event will occur and after the occurrence of the indicated date time the information is purged from the system memory .

In accordance with other implementations the evaluation manager component may obtain at least a portion of the available user information directly from the user. Thus the user has the opportunity to present information to the system during a previous session when there was a high level of confidence that the user performing the interaction is the authorized user.

A relational component and or a sentiment component may be configured to evaluate the data in comparison with current data to determine if the different types of data are in conformance. For example the determination may be that a user s current activity matches what the user was expected to be doing based on information available in a public domain of the Internet and associated with the user identity.

For example a policy may be defined as high medium low or based on other parameters e.g. a score between 0 and 10 a rank between 0 and 100 a risk color level or score e.g. red yellow green and so on . A risk may also be assigned when the user s activity changes rapidly or dramatically from what is available from the public information and or the information already known to the secure site .

According to some implementations a user may be given the choice to communicate with the system . For example the user through a device which may be the initiating device or another device may interact with the communication component or with another system component . Various information may be provided by the user such as the user indicating her travel pattern. Thus the user may indicate they are traveling out a town or out of the country and based on this information the risk model e.g. the system may decide not to decline the transaction in certain areas based on the user s prior communication.

Further to this implementation user input is enabled which allows communication back to the secure site . Thus the secure site is not blindly relying on information the user provides. The information is evaluated with what is determined in terms of activity around the user s sentiment profile indication. For example the user may indicate that they will be traveling to Europe next week. The sentiment profile indicator might be reviewed and the status on a social network might have a different view such as indicating that the user is at home e.g. not traveling . In this case the sentiment profile indication may be high and therefore the authentication manager component challenges the user e.g. with a one time passcode OTP as will be discussed in further detail below. Alternatively if there is a match the authentication manager component might not challenge the user. Thus the authentication may be adaptive.

If the risk is at a medium level the authentication manager component might not issue an OTP. For example the user may be traveling internationally and therefore might not receive the OTP. In this case the challenge may be a question that only the user is able to answer. Thus the challenge may be adapted depending on the sentiment analysis and or the relational profiling factor. Information related to the challenges will be provided in more detail below.

According to some implementations automated learning may be employed to facilitate one or more of the disclosed aspects. For example a machine learning and reasoning component may be utilized to automate one or more of the disclosed aspects. The machine learning and reasoning component may employ automated learning and reasoning procedures e.g. the use of explicitly and or implicitly trained statistical classifiers in connection with determining whether a user device may be authenticated for a specific transaction in accordance with one or more aspects described herein.

For example the machine learning and reasoning component may employ principles of probabilistic and decision theoretic inference. Additionally or alternatively the machine learning and reasoning component may rely on predictive models constructed using machine learning and or automated learning procedures. Logic centric inference may also be employed separately or in conjunction with probabilistic methods.

The machine learning and reasoning component may infer a potential for fraudulent activity or potential fraud for example by obtaining knowledge about various logged information such as historical data and or current data. The data may include transactional information behavioral information activity information as well as other information associated with the user. In an example if the trend for fraud is higher for a particular transaction type the machine learning and reasoning component may automatically require the user to take additional action to complete the authentication which may also be reflected in a rule based pattern. In another example based on a confidence level that user is in fact the authorized user the machine learning and reasoning component may automatically authenticate the user and continue to authenticate the user during the entire interaction or at least a portion of the interaction .

As used herein the term inference refers generally to the process of reasoning about or inferring states of the system a component a module the environment external devices mobile devices and so on from a set of observations as captured through events reports data and or through other forms of communication. Inference may be employed to identify a specific context or action or may generate a probability distribution over states for example. The inference may be probabilistic. For example computation of a probability distribution over states of interest based on a consideration of data and or events. The inference may also refer to techniques employed for composing higher level events from a set of events and or data. Such inference may result in the construction of new events and or actions from a set of observed events and or stored event data whether or not the events are correlated in close temporal proximity and whether the events and or data come from one or several events and or data sources. Various classification schemes and or systems e.g. support vector machines neural networks logic centric production systems Bayesian belief networks fuzzy logic data fusion engines and so on may be employed in connection with performing automatic and or inferred action in connection with the disclosed aspects.

If the machine learning and reasoning component has uncertainty related to the authentication of the user the machine learning and reasoning component may automatically engage in a short or long dialogue or interaction with the user e.g. answer a security question enter a temporary code and so on . In accordance with some aspects the machine learning and reasoning component engages in the dialogue with the user through another system component and or an external device.

The various aspects e.g. in connection with adaptive authentication of a user at initiation of an interaction and at various times during the interaction and so forth may employ various artificial intelligence based schemes for carrying out various aspects thereof. For example a process for determining if particular current behavior profile and or activity of a user matches an expected behavior profile and or activity or has an unexpected value may be enabled through an automatic classifier system and process.

A classifier is a function that maps an input attribute vector x x1 x2 x3 x4 xn to a confidence that the input belongs to a class. In other words f x confidence class . Such classification may employ a probabilistic and or statistical based analysis e.g. factoring into the analysis utilities and costs to prognose or infer an action that should be employed to determine the identity of a user.

A support vector machine SVM is an example of a classifier that may be employed. The SVM operates by finding a hypersurface in the space of possible inputs which hypersurface attempts to split the triggering criteria from the non triggering events. Intuitively this makes the classification correct for testing data that may be similar but not necessarily identical to training data. Other directed and undirected model classification approaches e.g. na ve Bayes Bayesian networks decision trees neural networks fuzzy logic models and probabilistic classification models providing different patterns of independence may be employed. Classification as used herein may be inclusive of statistical regression that is utilized to develop models of priority.

One or more aspects may employ classifiers that are explicitly trained e.g. through a generic training data as well as classifiers that are implicitly trained e.g. by observing historical patterns related to health geolocation devices and so on . For example SVM s may be configured through a learning or training phase within a classifier constructor and feature selection module. Thus a classifier s may be used to automatically learn and perform a number of functions including but not limited to determining according to a predetermined criteria when to automatically authenticate a user e.g. the initiating device which interactions should have an additional authentication procedure which interaction amounts should have an additional authentication procedure and so on.

Additionally or alternatively an implementation scheme e.g. a rule a policy and so on may be applied to control and or regulate when and how a user is authenticated. In some implementations based upon a predefined criterion the rules based implementation may automatically and or dynamically implement one or more rules and or confidence levels associated with a particular authentication procedure. In response thereto the rule based implementation may automatically interpret and carry out functions associated with the authentication procedure by employing a predefined and or programmed rule s based upon any desired criteria.

According to some implementations based on the interaction indication and the additional information it may be determined that authentication is necessary for the current interaction. In this situation a security manager component may be configured to transmit a token code and a security question or a set of security questions to the initiating device .

The communication between the system and the initiating device may be an out of band communication e.g. a communication on a different channel or by a different method than the channel or method of the primary communication channel . As used herein the out of band communication will be referred to as different communication channels. Therefore the indication may be received over a first communications channel and the code and the security question s may be transmitted over a second communications channel . The first communication channel and the second communications channel may be different channels. For example the initiating device may be a desktop computer wherein a user has logged into the secure site . Therefore the indication of the transaction is received from the desktop computer. In response the code and the security question s may be transmitted through a Short Message Service SMS for example.

The authorization manager component may be configured to analyze a reply received in response to the security question s . The reply may be appended to the code . For example if the reply is the expected reply and includes the code the authorization manager component may allow the transaction to continue. However if the reply is not the expected reply and or the received code is not the code the transaction request is denied and or more information is solicited from the initiating device .

Methods that may be implemented in accordance with the disclosed subject matter will be better appreciated with reference to the flow charts. While for purposes of simplicity of explanation the methods are shown and described as a series of blocks it is to be understood and appreciated that the disclosed aspects are not limited by the number or order of blocks as some blocks may occur in different orders and or at substantially the same time with other blocks from what is depicted and described herein. Moreover not all illustrated blocks may be required to implement the disclosed methods. It is to be appreciated that the functionality associated with the blocks may be implemented by software hardware a combination thereof or any other suitable means e.g. device system process component and so forth . Additionally it should be further appreciated that the disclosed methods are capable of being stored on an article of manufacture to facilitate transporting and transferring such methods to various devices. Those skilled in the art will understand and appreciate that the methods could alternatively be represented as a series of interrelated states or events such as in a state diagram.

Thus method may be configured to evaluate one or more contexts associated with the user to determine whether the user of the computing device is the expected user or whether the user does not seem to be the authenticated user. A level of authentication may be reduced if the context is as expected. Alternatively the level of authentication may be increased if the context is not as expected or is unusual.

Method starts at when a context associated with a user identity is accessed. The context may be accessed in response to a request to perform an interaction within a secure network such as secure site of . The context may include a profile an activity or both a profile and an activity. The profile may be a transactional profile a behavioral profile or another profile associated with a user identity. The activity may be an activity reported on a social network an activity inferred based on a location of a user device an activity reported by a user or an activity determined based on information obtained from one or more sources and so on.

The request may be received from a user device such as initiating device of . The request may include an indication of an attempt to perform various types of interactions e.g. monetary non monetary and so on with the secure network. The indication may be a request to access a portion of the secure network or to perform another function e.g. a transaction within the secure network.

According to an implementation the request to initiate the interaction may be received after an identity of a user authorized to access a secure network is received and verified. For example the identity of the user may be verified based on a received user name password pair or another means of identification or credentials e.g. biometric identification .

At the context is compared to a current context. The current context may be the context determined at substantially the same time as the request to perform the interaction is received e.g. what is the user doing right now . The comparison may include determining if the context and the current context are substantially the same or are different.

A level of authentication for the interaction is modified at as a result of the comparing. For example if the context and the current context are substantially the same the level of authentication may be minimal e.g. only one or two security questions need to be answered or the need for further authentication may be eliminated. Alternatively if the context and the current context do not match the level of authentication may be increased e.g. a set of five security questions need to be answered biometric identity information is needed and so on .

At the interaction may be selectively allowed based on a result of the authentication. In the case where further authentication is not needed the interaction is automatically allowed at . Further if the security questions are answered correctly the interaction may be allowed. However if one or more security questions are answered incorrectly the interaction may be denied.

Method starts at when a context associated with a user identity is accessed in response to a request to perform an interaction within a secure network. According to an implementation accessing the context may include at mining a social network for the context associated with the user identity. For example a social network may be identified based on various information related to the user e.g. one or more email aliases one or more telephone numbers a single sign in across multiple websites and so on .

In accordance with another implementation accessing the context may include receiving at the context from a device that sent the request to perform the interaction. For example a user may provide a context which allows the user to be included in the authentication procedure.

At the context is compared with a current context. The current context may be the context determined at substantially the same time as the request to perform the interaction is received. Comparing the contexts may include at performing a relational analysis. In this case the context comprises a transactional profile and a behavior profile. Alternatively or additionally comparing the context may include at performing a sentiment analysis. In this case the context comprises an anticipated activity and an activity performed at substantially the same time as the request to perform the interaction.

The method continues at and a level of authentication for the interaction is modified as a result of the comparison. For example the modifying may include decreasing the level of authentication at based on a determination that the current context conforms to the context. Alternatively the modifying may include increasing the level of authentication at based on a determination that the context does not match the current context. At the interaction is selectively allowed based on a result of an authentication.

One or more implementations include a computer readable medium including processor executable instructions configured to implement one or more embodiments presented herein. An embodiment of a computer readable medium or a computer readable device devised in these ways is illustrated in wherein an implementation includes a computer readable medium such as a CD R DVD R flash drive a platter of a hard disk drive and so forth on which is encoded computer readable data . The computer readable data such as binary data including a plurality of zero s and one s as illustrated in turn includes a set of computer instructions configured to operate according to one or more of the principles set forth herein.

In the illustrated embodiment the processor executable computer instructions may be configured to perform a method such as the method of and or the method of for example. In another embodiment the processor executable instructions may be configured to implement a system such as the system of and or the system of for example. Many such computer readable media may be devised by those of ordinary skill in the art that are configured to operate in accordance with the techniques presented herein.

As used in this application the terms component module system interface and the like are generally intended to refer to a computer related entity either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. For example a component may be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a controller and the controller may be a component. One or more components residing within a process or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer or distributed between two or more computers.

Further the claimed subject matter may be implemented as a method apparatus or article of manufacture using standard programming or engineering techniques to produce software firmware hardware or any combination thereof to control a computer to implement the disclosed subject matter. The term article of manufacture as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device carrier or media. Of course many modifications may be made to this configuration without departing from the scope or spirit of the claimed subject matter.

Generally embodiments are described in the general context of computer readable instructions being executed by one or more computing devices. Computer readable instructions may be distributed via computer readable media as will be discussed below. Computer readable instructions may be implemented as program modules such as functions objects Application Programming Interfaces APIs data structures and the like that perform one or more tasks or implement one or more abstract data types. Typically the functionality of the computer readable instructions are combined or distributed as desired in various environments.

In other embodiments the device may include additional features or functionality. For example the device may include additional storage such as removable storage or non removable storage including but not limited to magnetic storage optical storage etc. Such additional storage is illustrated in by storage . In one or more embodiments computer readable instructions to implement one or more embodiments provided herein are in the storage . The storage may store other computer readable instructions to implement an operating system an application program etc. Computer readable instructions may be loaded in the at least one memory for execution by the at least one processing unit for example.

Computing devices may include a variety of media which may include computer readable storage media or communications media which two terms are used herein differently from one another as indicated below.

Computer readable storage media may be any available storage media which may be accessed by the computer and includes both volatile and nonvolatile media removable and non removable media. By way of example and not limitation computer readable storage media may be implemented in connection with any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions program modules structured data or unstructured data. Computer readable storage media may include but are not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disk DVD or other optical disk storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or other tangible and or non transitory media which may be used to store desired information. Computer readable storage media may be accessed by one or more local or remote computing devices e.g. via access requests queries or other data retrieval protocols for a variety of operations with respect to the information stored by the medium.

Communications media typically embody computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other structured or unstructured data in a data signal such as a modulated data signal e.g. a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery or transport media. The term modulated data signal or signals refers to a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in one or more signals. By way of example and not limitation communication media include wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic RF infrared and other wireless media.

The device may include input device s such as keyboard mouse pen voice input device touch input device infrared cameras video input devices or any other input device. Output device s such as one or more displays speakers printers or any other output device may be included with the device . The input device s and the output device s may be connected to the device via a wired connection wireless connection or any combination thereof. In one or more embodiments an input device or an output device from another computing device may be used as the input device s and or the output device s for the device . Further the device may include communication connection s to facilitate communications with one or more other devices illustrated as a computing device coupled over a network .

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter of the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example embodiments.

Various operations of embodiments are provided herein. The order in which one or more or all of the operations are described should not be construed as to imply that these operations are necessarily order dependent. Alternative ordering will be appreciated based on this description. Further not all operations may necessarily be present in each embodiment provided herein.

As used in this application or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or. Further an inclusive or may include any combination thereof e.g. A B or any combination thereof . In addition a and an as used in this application are generally construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from context to be directed to a singular form. Additionally at least one of A and B and or the like generally means A or B or both A and B. Further to the extent that includes having has with or variants thereof are used in either the detailed description or the claims such terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising .

Further unless specified otherwise first second or the like are not intended to imply a temporal aspect a spatial aspect an ordering etc. Rather such terms are merely used as identifiers names etc. for features elements items etc. For example a first channel and a second channel generally correspond to channel A and channel B or two different or two identical channels or the same channel. Additionally comprising comprises including includes or the like generally means comprising or including.

Although the disclosure has been shown and described with respect to one or more implementations equivalent alterations and modifications will occur based on a reading and understanding of this specification and the annexed drawings. The disclosure includes all such modifications and alterations and is limited only by the scope of the following claims.

