---

title: Method of searching for contact number and electronic device for supporting same
abstract: A method of searching for a contact number by a host device is provided. The method includes receiving a signal for requesting vehicle data of a first mobile station and a location value of a second mobile station; receiving a location value and flag information of the first mobile station; determining the location value of the first mobile station based on the flag information; determining whether a difference between the determined location value of the first mobile station and the location value of the second mobile station is less than or equal to a predetermined threshold location value; extracting the vehicle data of the first mobile station based on the determination result as to whether the difference is less than or equal to the predetermined threshold location; and transmitting the extracted vehicle data of the first mobile station.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09462415&OS=09462415&RS=09462415
owner: Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd
number: 09462415
owner_city: 
owner_country: KR
publication_date: 20150210
---
This application claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 a to a Korean Patent Application filed on Feb. 17 2014 in the Korean Intellectual Property Office and assigned Serial No. 10 2014 0017614 the entire contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention relates to a method of searching for a contact number and an electronic device for supporting the same and more particularly to a method in which a user searches for a contact number using a vehicle number and an electronic device for supporting the same.

A driver frequently parks his her vehicle in various places. The parked vehicle may cause inconvenience to other people. Therefore the driver may leave a message having his her phone number inside the vehicle to enable other people to easily communicate therewith.

In addition the driver may leave a driver call service agency s phone number inside the vehicle instead of his her phone number. In this case the driver must sign up for a membership in advance. Then if the driver inputs his her phone number the driver is allocated a unique number corresponding to the phone number. The unique number may be set as the driver s vehicle number.

In the related art the driver takes a risk by exposing his her phone number to many random people. The driver s exposed phone number may be arbitrarily collected by other people for applications of sending various types of scam messages such as chauffeur service messages and loan guidance messages which may cause unexpected inconvenience to the driver.

In addition other people must closely approach the driver s vehicle to obtain the agency s main number. Furthermore the driver cannot identify another drivers contact number while being in his her vehicle or driving the vehicle.

The present invention has been made to address the above identified problems and disadvantages and to provide at least the advantages described below. Accordingly an aspect of the present invention provides a method of searching for a contact number and an electronic device for supporting the same.

In accordance with an aspect of the present invention a method of searching for a contact number by a host device is provided. The method includes receiving a signal for requesting vehicle data of a first mobile station and a location value of a second mobile station receiving a location value and flag information of the first mobile station determining the location value of the first mobile station based on the flag information determining whether a difference between the determined location value of the first mobile station and the location value of the second mobile station is less than or equal to a predetermined threshold location value extracting the vehicle data of the first mobile station based on the determination result as to whether the difference is less than or equal to the predetermined threshold location and transmitting the extracted vehicle data of the first mobile station.

In accordance with another aspect of the present invention a host device is provided. The host device includes a wireless communication unit configured to receive a signal for requesting vehicle data of a first mobile station a location value of a second mobile station and a location value and flag information of the first mobile station and a controller configured to determine a location value of the first mobile station based on the flag information judge whether a difference between the determined location value of the first mobile station and the location value of the second mobile station is less than or equal to a predetermined threshold location value and extract the vehicle data of the first mobile station based on the judgment result as to whether the difference is less than or equal to the predetermined threshold location.

Hereinafter an electronic device according to various embodiments of the present invention will be described with reference to the accompanying drawings in various embodiments of the present invention the term user may indicate a person using an electronic device or a device e.g. an artificial intelligence electronic device using an electronic device.

The term vehicles described herein may refer to all means of transportation travelling on a road or a railroad. For example vehicles may include cars vans and motorcycles. Vehicles may store data communicate with an external device and connect to an electronic device. In addition vehicles may include a Global Positioning System GPS capable of determining and receiving a location thereof or an electronic device having a GPS as one component thereof.

Various embodiments of the present invention will be described in conjunction with the accompanying drawings. The present invention may have various embodiments and modifications and changes may be made therein. Therefore the present invention will be described in detail with reference to embodiments shown in the accompanying drawings. However it should be understood that there is no intent to limit various embodiments of the present invention to the embodiments disclosed but the present invention should be construed to cover all modifications equivalents and alternatives falling within the scope and spirit of the present invention. In the description of the drawings identical or similar reference numerals are used to designate identical or similar elements.

As used in various embodiments of the present invention the expressions include may include and other conjugates refer to the existence of a corresponding disclosed function operation or constituent element and do not limit one or more additional functions operations or constituent elements. Further as used in various embodiments of the present invention the terms include have and their conjugates may be construed to denote a certain characteristic number step operation constituent element component or a combination thereof but may not be construed to exclude the existence of or a possibility of addition of one or more other characteristics numbers steps operations constituent elements components or combinations thereof.

Further as used in various embodiments of the present invention the expression or includes any or all combinations of words enumerated together. For example the expression A or B may include A may include B or may include both A and B.

While expressions including ordinal numbers such as first and second as used in various embodiments of the present invention may modify various constituent elements such constituent elements are not limited by the above expressions. For example the above expressions do not limit the sequence and or importance of the corresponding elements. The expressions may be used to distinguish a component element from another component element. For example a first user device and a second user device indicate different user devices although both of them are user devices. For example a first element may be termed a second element and similarly a second element may be termed a first element without departing from the scope of various embodiments of the present invention.

It should be noted that if it is described that one component element is coupled or connected to another component element the first component element may be directly coupled or connected to the second component and a third component element may be coupled or connected between the first and second component elements. Conversely when one component element is directly coupled or directly connected to another component element it may be construed that a third component element does not exist between the first component element and the second component element.

The terms as used in various embodiments of the present invention are merely for the purpose of describing embodiments and are not intended to limit the various embodiments of the present invention. As used herein the singular forms are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise.

Unless defined otherwise all terms used herein including technical terms and scientific terms have the same meaning as commonly understood by a person of ordinary skill in the art to which various embodiments of the present invention pertain. Such terms as those defined in a generally used dictionary are to be interpreted to have the meanings equal to the contextual meanings in the relevant field of art and are not to be interpreted to have ideal or excessively formal meanings unless clearly defined in various embodiments of the present invention.

An electronic device according to embodiments of the present invention may be a device including a communication function. For example the electronic device may include at least one of a smart phone a tablet Personal Computer PC a mobile phone a video phone e book reader a desktop PC a laptop PC a netbook computer a Personal Digital Assistant PDA a Portable Multimedia Player PMP an Moving Picture Experts Group Audio Layer 3 MP3 player a mobile medical device a camera a wearable device e.g. a Head Mounted Device HMD such as electronic glasses electronic clothes an electronic bracelet an electronic necklace an electronic appcessory an electronic tattoo or a smart watch .

According to embodiments of the present invention the electronic device may be a smart home appliance with a communication function. The smart home appliance as an example of the electronic device may include at least one of a television a Digital Video Disk DVD player an audio player a refrigerator an air conditioner a vacuum cleaner an oven a microwave oven a washing machine an air cleaner a set top box a TV box e.g. Samsung HomeSync Apple TV or Google TV a game console an electronic dictionary an electronic key a camcorder and an electronic picture frame.

According to embodiments of the present invention the entity may include at least one of various medical appliances e.g. Magnetic Resonance Angiography MRA Magnetic Resonance Imaging MRI Computed Tomography CT and ultrasonic machines navigation equipment a Global Positioning System GPS receiver an Event Data Recorder EDR a Flight Data Recorder FOR an in vehicle infotainment device electronic equipment for ships e.g. ship navigation equipment and a gyrocompass avionics security equipment a vehicle head unit an industrial or home robot an Automatic Teller Machine ATM of a banking system and a Point of Sale POS of a store.

According to embodiments of the present invention the electronic device may include at least one of a part of furniture or a building structure having a communication function an electronic board an electronic signature receiving device a projector and various kinds of measuring instruments e.g. a water meter an electric meter a gas meter a radio wave meter and the like . The electronic device according to various embodiments of the present invention may be a combination of one or more of the aforementioned various devices. Further the electronic device according to various embodiments of the present invention may be a flexible device. Further it will be apparent to those skilled in the art that the electronic device according to various embodiments of the present invention is not limited to the above mentioned devices.

Hereinafter an electronic device and a method of controlling an operation thereof according to various embodiments of the present invention are described with reference to the accompanying drawings. In various embodiments of the present invention the term user may indicate a person using an electronic device or a device for example an artificial intelligence electronic device using an electronic device. The configurations of the electronic device according to various embodiments of the present invention and the method of controlling the operation thereof are not restricted by or limited to contents which are described below and therefore it should be noted that they may be applied to various embodiments based on the embodiments which are described below. In embodiments of the present invention described below a hardware approach is described as an example. However since the embodiments of the present invention include a technology using both hardware and software the present invention does not exclude a software based approach.

The bus is a circuit which interconnects the above described elements and delivers a communication e.g. a control message between the above described elements.

The processor receives commands from the above described other elements e.g. the memory the user input unit the display the communication unit the application control module etc. via the bus interprets the received commands and executes a calculation or processes data according to the interpreted commands.

The memory stores commands or data received from the processor or other elements e.g. the user input unit the display the communication unit the application control module etc. or generated by the processor or the other elements. The memory includes programming modules such as a kernel middleware an Application Programming Interface API an application and the like. Each of the above described programming modules may be implemented in software firmware hardware or a combination of two or more thereof.

The kernel controls or manages system resources e.g. the bus the processor the memory etc. used to execute operations or functions implemented by other programming modules e.g. the middleware the API and the application . Also the kernel provides an interface capable of accessing and controlling or managing the individual elements of the electronic device for example a first terminal by using the middleware the API or the application .

The middleware serves as a go between for the API the application and the kernel so that the API or the application can communicate with the kernel and exchange data therewith. Also in relation to work requests received from one or more applications and or the middleware for example load balancing of the work requests may be performed by using a method of assigning a priority in which system resources e.g. the bus the processor the memory etc. of the electronic device can be used by at least one of the one or more applications . The API is an interface through which the application is capable of controlling a function provided by the kernel or the middleware and includes for example at least one interface or function for file control window control image processing character control or the like.

According to various embodiments of the present invention the applications may include a Short Message Service SIBS Multimedia Message Service MMS application an email application a calendar application an alarm application a health care application for example an application for measuring an amount of exercise or a level of blood sugar and an environmental information application for example an application for measuring atmospheric pressure humidity temperature and the like . Additionally or alternately the applications may include an application related to an information exchange between the electronic device and an external device for example an external electronic device for example a second terminal . The application related to the information exchange may include for example a notification relay application for transmitting information to the external device or a device management application for managing the external device.

For example the notification relay application may include a function for transferring to the external device for example the external electronic device notification information generated from other applications of the electronic device for example an SMS MMS application an e mail application a health management application an environmental information application and the like . Additionally or alternatively the notification relay application may receive notification information from for example an external device for example the external electronic device and provide the some to a user. The device management application for example may manage for example install delete or update at least some functions for example turning on or off an external device or some elements of the external device or adjusting the brightness or resolution of a display of an external device for example the external electronic device that communicates with the electronic device for example the first terminal applications performed in the external device or services for example a phone call service or a messaging service provided from the external device.

The application control module manages at least one of the functions of the external device for example the external electronic device the application operating in the external device or the services e.g. call service or message service provided by the external device.

For example at least one of the functions of the external device may include the turn on off function of the external device or some of the components of the external device . At least one of the functions of the external device may include a control function regarding the brightness or resolution of the display . The management of the services may include installing the service deleting the service or updating the service.

According to various embodiments of the present invention the applications may include an application designated according to a property for example a kind of the external electronic device of the external device for example the electronic device . For example when the external device is an MP3 player the applications includes an application related to the reproduction of music. Similarly when the external device is a mobile medical appliance the applications includes an application related to health care. According to an embodiment of the present invention the applications include at least one of an application designated to the electronic device and an application received from the external device for example the host device or the external electronic device .

The user input unit transfers an instruction or data input from a user via an input output device for example a sensor a keyboard or a touch screen to the processor the memory and the communication unit via for example the bus . For example the user input unit provides the processor with data on a user s touch input via a touch screen. Also the user input unit may output a command or data received from the processor the memory and the communication unit for example via the bus to an input output device for example a speaker or a display . For example the user input unit outputs voice data processed via the processor to a user via a speaker.

The display displays various pieces of information for example multimedia data or text data to a user.

The communication unit connects communication between the electronic device and the external device for example the external electronic device or the host device . For example the communication unit is connected to a network via wireless or wired communication to communicate with the external device. Wireless communication may include at least one of for example Wireless Fidelity Wi Fi Bluetooth BT Near Field Communication NFC Global Positioning System GPS and a cellular communication for example Long Term Evolution LTE LTE Advanced LTE A Code Division Multiple Access CDMA Wideband CDMA WCDMA Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS Wireless Broadband WiBro Global System for Mobile communications GSM or the like Wired communication may include at least one of for example Universal Serial Bus USB High Definition Multimedia Interface HDMI Recommended Standard 232 RS 232 and Plain Old Telephone Service POTS .

According to an embodiment of the present invention the network is a communication network. The communication network includes at least one of a computer network the Internet the Internet of Things and a telephone network. According to an embodiment of the present invention a protocol for example a transport layer protocol a data link layer protocol or a physical layer protocol for communication between the electronic device and an external device e.g. the host device or the external electronic device may be supported by at least one of the applications the API the middleware the kernel and the communication unit .

The application control module processes at least one of data received from other elements e.g. the processor the memory the user input unit or the communication unit etc and provides the processed data to a user in a variety of ways. For example the application control module may recognize information regarding a component connected to the electronic device . The application control module may store the information regarding the connected component in the memory of the electronic device . And the application control module may execute the application based on the information regarding a component connected to the electronic device .

According to an embodiment of the present invention a network may be established between an electronic device e.g. a first mobile station an external electronic device e.g. a second mobile station and another device e.g. a host device . Here the electronic device and the external electronic device as examples of an electronic device may include constitutions that will be described with reference to . The host device may include constitutions that will be described with reference to . In addition although not illustrated in to help with comprehension of the present invention the electronic device and the external electronic device communicate with each other.

Furthermore the network according to an embodiment of the present invention may include a telecommunication network a computer network and a network using electrical signals.

According to an embodiment of the present invention the network may be a telecommunication network. The telecommunication network may include at least one of a computer network the Internet the Internet of Things and a telephone network. According to an embodiment of the present invention a protocol e.g. a transport lay protocol a data link layer protocol or a physical layer protocol for communication between the electronic device e.g. a first mobile station and the external electronic device e.g. a second mobile station may be supported by at least one of an application an Application Programming Interface middleware a kernel and a communication interface.

The host device an example of an external device includes a wireless communication unit a storage unit and a controller .

The wireless communication unit is a communication module for supporting communication services of the host device . The wireless communication unit establishes a communication channel with a communication system. In this case the wireless communication unit includes a radio frequency transmitter for up converting and amplifying a frequency of a transmitted signal and a receiver for low noise amplifying a received signal and down converting the frequency thereof.

In addition the wireless communication unit transmits receives a wireless signal to from at least one of a base station and an external device in a mobile communication network. The wireless signal may include various types of data according to a voice call signal a video call signal or text multimedia message transmission reception.

Furthermore the wireless communication unit performs a function for wireless access of the Internet. Examples of wireless Internet access technology include Wireless Local Area Network WLAN Wireless Fidelity Wi Fi Wireless Broadband WiBro World Interoperability for Microwave Access WIMAX and High Speed Downlink Packet Access HSDPA .

Moreover the wireless communication unit may employ Bluetooth Radio Frequency Identification RFID Infrared Data Association IrDA Ultra Wideband UWB or ZigBee.

According to an embodiment of the present invention the wireless communication unit receives from the external electronic device e.g. the second mobile station a signal for requesting vehicle data involved in the electronic device e.g a first mobile station and a location value of the external electronic device e.g. the second mobile station . The signal for requesting vehicle data involved in the electronic device includes at least one of a text signal and an image signal for a vehicle number involved in the electronic device . For example the signal for requesting the vehicle data may include a text signal for the vehicle number 05 GA 3212 or an image for the vehicle number acquired via a camera unit of the external electronic device described below. The location value of the external electronic device may be a location value of the external electronic device measured by a sensor unit described below. More specifically the location value of the external electronic device may be the latitude and longitude of the external electronic device .

The wireless communication unit transmits to the electronic device a signal for requesting a location value of the electronic device .

The wireless communication unit receives from the electronic device the location value and flag information of the electronic device . In this case the location value of the electronic device may include values indicative of the latitude and longitude of the electronic device . For example the location value of the electronic device may be represented by the latitude and longitude thereof e.g. North 37.5780 and East 126.976 . The flag information may be a value or variable used to represent truth or falseness of a certain status. The flag information according to an embodiment of the present invention may include information as to whether the location value of the vehicle corresponding to the electronic device is a constant location value or a continuously variable location value.

The flag information as information for identification or a cover page may be used to determine movement of the electronic device . For example if the electronic device does not move for a predetermined time the wireless communication unit transmits to the host device a flag signal to indicate that the electronic device has not moved. If the electronic device continues to move the wireless communication unit transmits to the host device a flag signal for representing that the electronic device is moving.

According to an embodiment of the present invention when the controller extracts the vehicle data involved in the electronic device the wireless communication unit transmits the vehicle data extracted from the external electronic device . In addition when a memo list is changed the wireless communication unit transmits a memo notification signal to the electronic device . For example when an external device e.g. the external electronic device transmits a signal for additionally storing a memo in a virtual memo storing module the wireless communication unit transmit information on the memo and a notification signal to the electronic device associated with the vehicle e.g. the electronic device .

According to an embodiment of the present invention the wireless communication unit receives a signal for requesting the vehicle data from the external electronic device and then transmits to the external electronic device a message informing that the vehicle data involved in the electronic device cannot be extracted when the vehicle data is not stored in the storage unit or a difference between the location values e.g. latitudes and longitudes of the electronic device and the external electronic device is greater than a predetermined threshold location value.

The storage unit includes software for monitoring and controlling the entire network such as managing files in the host device . The storage unit includes software for processing service requests between clients. According to an embodiment of the present invention the storage unit includes a vehicle number and contact number storing module and the virtual memo storing module .

The vehicle number and contact number storing module stores a user s vehicle number and contact number. The user may access the host device using an electronic device e.g. the electronic device and stores in the vehicle number and contact number storing module text of his her own vehicle number or an image of the vehicle number acquired via an image receiving device e.g. a camera unit . Here the user s access to the host device may refer to activation of a previously stored application in the electronic device and connection of a link.

According to an embodiment of the present invention the user using the electronic device stores in the vehicle number and contact number storing module a Quick Response QR code or barcode designated in advance by the user instead of the vehicle number. The user may store the vehicle number and personal information in the vehicle number and contact number storing module by creating his her account and password in a program of an application.

According to an embodiment of the present invention the vehicle number and contact number storing module stores a virtual contact number changed by a virtual number converting module .

According to an embodiment of the present invention the electronic device accesses the host device to store the vehicle number in the vehicle number and contact number storing module after a predetermined security procedure. For example the user using the electronic device stores his her vehicle number and contact number in the host device after a security procedure such as user authentication and biometric verification e.g. pupil verification fingerprint verification or voice verification for an electronic device described in his her vehicle registration card.

According to an embodiment of the present invention the virtual memo storing module stores a memo list in the vehicle corresponding to the vehicle number. The user using the electronic device or the external electronic stores the memo list in the virtual memo storing module . Here the memo list may include at least one of text audio a video and a moving image. In addition the users using the electronic device and the external electronic device respectively may refer to the memo list.

The controller supports execution of an initialization process by controlling a power supply to the components of the host device and controls the components when the initialization process is completed.

According to an embodiment of the present invention the controller includes at least one of a vehicle number search module the virtual number converting module and an image recognizing module .

When the wireless communication unit receives a signal for requesting vehicle data involved in the electronic device a location value of the external electronic device and a location value and flag information of the electronic the controller determines the location value of the electronic device based on the flag information. For example the controller may determine the location value of the electronic device based on constant flag information e.g. the constant location value of the electronic device if the vehicle associated with the electronic device does not move. In addition the controller may also determine the location value of the electronic device based on variable flag information e.g. the changed location value of the electronic device at an arbitrary time point e.g. at a preset time or when the location value of the electronic device is most recently received if the vehicle associated with the electronic device continues to move.

The flag information may include a fixed or varied value depending upon activation of the electronic device e.g. electronic device associated with the vehicle. For example the activation of the electronic device may mean that the electronic device transmits the changed location information of the vehicle while being electrically connected thereto. By way of example the electronic device electrically connected to the vehicle may transmit to the wireless communication unit the updated location value of the vehicle in motion.

The electronic device e.g. the electronic device may be automatically activated when closely located within a predetermined distance from the vehicle. In addition the electronic device may activate the association between the electronic device and the vehicle by recognizing at least one of Near Field Communication NFC an electronic tag Radio Frequency Identification RFID and a Quick Response QR code which are detachably coupled to the vehicle.

According to an embodiment of the present invention the controller determines whether a difference between the determined location value of the electronic device and the location value of the external electronic device is less than or equal to a predetermined threshold location value. For example when the electronic device is located at a latitude of 35.678 degrees north and a longitude of 127.976 degrees east the external electronic device is located at a latitude of 39.678 degrees north and a longitude of 129.076 degrees east and a predetermined threshold location value corresponds to a latitude of 5 degrees north and a longitude of 5 degrees east the controller may determine that a difference between the location values is less than or equal to the predetermined threshold location value.

The threshold location value may be determined according to whether the vehicle data of the electronic device requested by the external electronic device corresponds to virtual contact number data or memo list data. For example the controller may lower the threshold location value when the vehicle data requested by the external electronic device corresponds to virtual contact number data and raise the threshold location value when the vehicle data corresponds to memo list data. In the case of the virtual contact number a direct call may be made between users therefore the controller may lower the threshold location value compared to the memo list data in order to enhance security.

In addition the threshold location value may be determined depending upon a period in which the location value of the electronic device is updated. The threshold location value may be raised when the location value of the electronic device is seriously changed. In contrast the threshold location value may be lowered when the location value of the electronic device is constant. For example during parking or stopping a vehicle has a fixed location value which causes a slight change in location information. Therefore the threshold location value may be adjusted to a lower level. However when driven the vehicle has a varying location value therefore the threshold location value may be raised to ensure usability of an embodiment of the present invention.

The threshold location value may be determined depending upon activation of the electronic device . The activation of the electronic device electrically connected to the vehicle is determined by the user and thus may be irrelevant to the driving of the vehicle. Accordingly while the electronic device is being activated the location information of the vehicle is correct so that the electronic device can be discovered in a narrower range even if the threshold location value is lowered. In contrast while the electronic device is being inactivated the location information of the vehicle may be inaccurate so that the electronic device can be discovered in a wider range if the threshold location value is raised.

According to an embodiment of the present invention the controller extracts vehicle data when the difference between the location values of the electronic device and the external electronic device is less than or equal to the threshold location value. In this case the vehicle data may include at least one of virtual contact number data and memo list data.

According to an embodiment of the present invention the vehicle number search module searches for a vehicle number. The vehicle number search module determines whether the vehicle number associated with the electronic device has been stored in the vehicle number and contact number storing module when the wireless communication unit receives a vehicle number request signal of the electronic device . In the absence of the requested vehicle number associated with the electronic device the vehicle number search module generates a message informing that the vehicle data cannot be extracted. The generated message is transmitted to the external electronic device via the wireless communication unit .

According to an embodiment of the present invention the virtual number converting module converts the contact number and memo list of the owner of the vehicle. In addition when the user inputs a contact number the vehicle number and contact number storing module converts the contact number into a virtual number using the virtual number converting module .

The user stores several contact numbers in the vehicle number and contact number storing module and the virtual number converting module converts all or some of the stored contract numbers into virtual numbers. Here the virtual number through which a call may be made to the vehicle user refers to a number corresponding to and indirectly indicating the contact number of the user. For example when the user s contact number is 010 2334 3245 the contact number is converted into a random virtual number such as U.S. Pat. No. 1 425 153 having no relation to the user s contact number.

The virtual number may be determined by the user or may include a random number converted by a random number generating program. The virtual number may be changed every predetermined periodic or aperiodic time interval. The periodic changing of the virtual number may include changing the virtual number after the user passes user authentication e.g. password or biometric verification . In addition the virtual number may have constant digits and may be determined according to the user s location the status of the vehicle for example whether the vehicle stops or moves and activation or inactivation of the electronic device associated with the vehicle. By way of example for a vehicle user in Seoul Korea the first two digits of a vehicle number may be designated as 02 and for a vehicle user in Gyeonggi do the first three digits of a vehicle number may be designated as 031. 

According to an embodiment of the present invention the image recognizing module recognizes the image of the vehicle number using an image receiving device e.g. a camera or a camcorder . The image recognizing module is used when the vehicle user stores the vehicle number and the contact number and when a request is made to search for the vehicle number of the external electronic device . When the wireless communication unit receives the image signal of the vehicle number the virtual number converting module converts the image of the vehicle number into text. In addition the virtual number converting module may use a program for extracting data from an image.

Referring to the display performs a function of displaying images or data to a user. The display includes a display panel. The display panel may employ for example a Liquid Crystal Display LCD or an Active Matrix Organic Light Emitting Diode AM OLED . In this case the display further includes a controller for controlling the display panel. The display panel may be for example flexible transparent or wearable.

The display may have the form of a touch screen with a touch panel coupled thereto. For example the touch screen may include an integral module in which a display panel and a touch panel are coupled to each other in a stack structure.

The touch panel may recognize a user s touch input based on at least one of for example a capacitive type a resistive type an infrared type and an acoustic wave type. The touch panel may further include a controller. In the case of a capacitive type touch panel proximity awareness may be possible in addition to direct touch. The touch panel may further include a tactile layer. In this case the touch panel may provide a user with a tactile reaction.

The user input unit receives various instructions from a user. The user input unit includes at least one of for example a pen sensor and a key .

For example the pen sensor may be realized using a separate pen recognition sheet in the same way as receiving a user s touch input.

The key may include for example a mechanical key or a touch key. For example the mechanical key may include at least one of a power button provided at one side of the electronic device and the external electronic device to turn on a display thereof when pushed one or more volume buttons located at the other side of the electronic device and the external electronic device to control volume when pushed and a home button provided at a lower central portion of the display of the electronic device and the external electronic device to perform switching to a home screen when pushed.

The touch key may include at least one of for example a menu key provided on one surface of a lower end of the display of the electronic device and the external electronic device to provide a menu related to currently displayed content when touched and a back key provided on another surface of the lower end of the display of the electronic device and external electronic device to provide a function of returning to a previous screen of the currently displayed screen when touched.

The communication unit includes at least one of a mobile communication unit a wireless Internet unit a short range communication unit and a location information unit .

The mobile communication unit transmits receives a wireless signal to from at least one of a base station an external mobile station and a server in the mobile communication network. The wireless signal may include various types of data according to transmission reception of a voice call signal a video call signal an SMS multimedia message.

The wireless Internet unit accesses a wireless Internet. Examples of wireless Internet technology include Wireless Local Area Network WLAN Wi Fi Wireless Broadband WiBro World Interoperability for Microwave Access WIMAX and High Speed Downlink Packet Access HSDPA .

The short range communication unit provides short range communication. Examples of the short range communication technology include Bluetooth Radio Frequency Identification RFID Infrared Data Association IrDA Ultra Wideband UWB and ZigBee.

The location information unit acquires or identifies locations of the electronic device and external electronic device . The location information unit acquires location information using a Global Navigation Satellite System GNSS . The term Global Navigation Satellite System GNSS refers to radio navigation satellite systems moving around the Earth and sending reference signals with which predetermined types of radio navigation receivers can determine locations thereof on or near the surface of the Earth.

Examples of the GNSS includes a Global Position System GPS operated by the U.S. Galileo operated by Europe a Global Orbiting Navigational Satellite System GLONASS operated by Russia COMPASS operated by China and Quasi Zenith Satellite System QZSS operated by Japan.

Additionally the communication unit includes a network interface e.g. a LAN card or modem for connecting the electronic device and the external electronic device to a network e.g. Internet Local Area Network LAN Wire Area Network WAN Telecommunication Network Cellular Network Satellite Network or Plain Old Telephone Service POTS .

The internal memory includes at least one of a volatile memory e.g. a Dynamic Random Access Memory DRAM and a Synchronous Dynamic RAM SDRAM a non volatile memory e.g. an One Time Programmable Read Only Memory OTPROM a Programmable ROM PROM an Erasable and Programmable ROM EPROM an Electrically Erasable and Programmable ROM EEPROM a Mask ROM and a Flash ROM a Hard Disk Drive HDD and a Solid State Drive SSD . According to an embodiment of the present invention the processor loads instructions or data received from at least one of a nonvolatile memory and other elements in a volatile memory and processes the loaded instructions or data. In addition the processor stores data received or generated from the other elements in a volatile memory.

The external memory includes at least one of for example a Compact Flash CF memory a Secure Digital SD memory a Micro Secure Digital Micro SD memory a Mini Secure Digital Mini SD memory an extreme Digital xD memory and a memory stick.

The memory stores an operating system for controlling resources of the electronic device and the external electronic device and programs for operating applications. The operating system includes a kernel middleware and an Application Program Interface API . Examples of the operating system include Android iOS Windows Symbian Tizen and Bada.

The kernel includes a system resource manager capable of managing resources or a device driver. The resource manager may include for example a process manager a memory manager or a file system manager and perform a function of controlling allocating or withdrawing system resources. The device driver may allow various elements of the electronic device and the external electronic device to be controlled via software access methods.

In this case the device driver may be divided into an interface and an individual driver module provided by a hardware maker. The device driver may include at least one of for example a display driver a camera driver a Bluetooth driver a shard memory driver a USB driver a keypad driver a Wi Fi driver an audio driver and an Inter Process Communication driver IPC .

The middleware may include a plurality of modules implemented in advance to provide functions commonly required for various applications. The middleware may provide common necessary functions through the API such that an application may efficiently use limited system resources within an electronic device. The middleware may include at least one of for example an application manager a window manager a multimedia manager a resource manager a power manager a database manager and a package manager.

In addition the middleware may include at least one of a connectivity manager a notification manager a location manager a graphic manager and a security manager according to implemented embodiments. Furthermore the middleware may include a runtime library or other library modules according to an embodiment of the present invention. The runtime library is a library module that a compiler uses to add a new function via a programming language while an application is being executed.

For example the runtime library may perform functions for input output memory management or arithmetic functions. The middleware may create and use a new middleware module via various functional combinations of the aforementioned internal element modules. Meanwhile the middleware may provide a specialized module according to the type of an operating system to provide a differentiated function.

The API corresponds to a set of API programming functions and may be provided to have a different configuration according to the operating system. For example in the case of Android or iOS one API set may be provided for each platform and in the case of Tizen two or more API sets may be provided.

The application may perform one or more functions using an application program. The application may be classified into for example a preloaded application and a third party application. The application may include for example a home application for executing a home screen a dialer application a Short Message Server SMS Multi Media Message MMS application an Instant Message IM application a browser application a camera application an alarm application a contacts or address book application a voice dial application an email application a calendar application a media player an album application and a clock application.

The sensor unit includes for example a gesture sensor a gyro sensor a magnetic sensor an acceleration sensor a proximity sensor and an illumination sensor .

The audio unit bilaterally converts voice and an electrical signal. The audio unit includes at least one of for example a speaker a receiver earphones and a microphone and converts voice information into input or output.

The camera unit performs a function of capturing a still image and a moving image. The camera unit includes one or more image sensors e.g. a front lens or a back lens an Image Signal Processor ISP or a flash Light Emitting Diode LED according to an embodiment of the present invention.

The processor controls a plurality of hardware and software elements connected thereto and processes and calculates various types of data including multimedia data by driving an operating system and an application program. For example the processor may provide fingerprint input guide information via the display or perform authentication or registration of a user using the acquired fingerprint image of the user. The processor may be implemented by for example a System on Chip SoC and may further include a Graphics Processing Unit GPU .

The names of the elements of the aforementioned electronic device and external electronic device may be changed. In addition the electronic device and external electronic device according to the present invention may include at least one of the aforementioned elements omit some elements or further include other additional elements.

According to an embodiment of the present invention in step the external electronic device transmits a signal for requesting vehicle data associated with the electronic device and a location value of the external electronic device to the host device . The signal for requesting vehicle data associated with the electronic device may include at least one of a text signal and an image signal for a vehicle number associated with the electronic device . For example a user using the external electronic device may input the vehicle number associated with the electronic device directly or using the camera unit .

A communication unit transmits the input vehicle number associated with the electronic device to the host device . In addition the location value of the external electronic device may refer to a current location value e.g. the latitude and longitude of the external electronic device measured by the sensor unit . The measured location value of the external electronic device is transmitted to the host device via the communication unit .

In step the host device transmits a signal for requesting a location value of the electronic device . In step the electronic device transmits the location value thereof and flag information. Here the location value of the electronic device may refer to a location value of the electronic device measured by the sensor unit . More specifically the location value of the electronic device may refer to the latitude and longitude of the electronic device . In addition the flag information may refer to constant flag information representing that the location value of the electronic device is fixed or variable flag information representing that the location value of the electronic device may be varied. More specifically the location value of the external electronic device may refer to the latitude and longitude of the external electronic device .

In step the host device determines the location value of the electronic device based on the received flag information. For example when the received flag information corresponds to constant flag information the host device determines the location value received from the electronic device as the location value of the electronic device . In contrast when the received flag information corresponds to variable flag information the host device receives the location value from the electronic device and determines a location value received at a time point e.g. at a preset time shortly before a comparison between the location values of the external electronic device and the external electronic device or when the location value of the electronic device is most recently received as the location value of the electronic device .

In step the host device determines whether a difference between the determined location value of the electronic device and the location value of the external electronic device is less than or equal to a predetermined threshold location value. For example when the electronic device is located at a latitude of 35.4242 degrees north and a longitude of 134.233 degrees east the external electronic device is located at a latitude of 35.3333 degrees north and a longitude of 133.003 degrees east and a predetermined threshold location value corresponds to a latitude of 4 degrees north and a longitude of 4 degrees east the host device may determine that a difference between the location values of the external electronic devices and the external electronic device is less than or equal to the predetermined threshold location value.

When it is determined that the difference is greater than the predetermined threshold location value the host device transmits a message informing that the vehicle data associated with the electronic device cannot be extracted to the external electronic device in step .

When it is determined that the difference is less than or equal to the predetermined threshold location value the host device extracts the vehicle data associated with the electronic device in step . In this case the vehicle data corresponds to the signal requested by the external electronic device . For example the vehicle data may include at least one of the text signal and the image signal for the vehicle number associated with the electronic device.

In step the host device transmits the vehicle data associated with the electronic device to the external electronic device . For example when the external electronic device has requested a virtual contact number as the vehicle data associated with the electronic device the host device transmits the virtual contact number to the external electronic device . If the external electronic device has requested a memo list as the vehicle data associated with the electronic device the host device transmits the memo list to the external electronic device .

According to an embodiment of the present invention in step a host device receives from a external electronic device a signal for requesting vehicle data associated with a electronic device and a location value of the external electronic device . The signal for requesting vehicle data associated with the electronic device may include at least one of a text signal and an image signal for a vehicle number associated with the electronic device . For example the signal for requesting the vehicle data may include a text signal for the vehicle number 04 GA 3158 or an image of the vehicle number acquired via a camera unit of the external electronic device . The location value of the external electronic device may refer to a location value of the external electronic device measured by a sensor unit . More specifically the location value of the external electronic device may refer to the latitude and longitude of the external electronic device .

The host device transmits to the electronic device a signal for requesting a location value of the electronic device . In response to the request signal the host device receives the location information of the electronic device and flag information from the electronic device in step . Here the location value of the electronic device may refer to a location value of the electronic device measured by the sensor unit . More specifically the location value of the electronic device may refer to the latitude and longitude of the electronic device . In addition the flag information may refer to constant flag information representing that the location value of the electronic device is fixed or variable flag information representing that the location value of the electronic device may be varied.

In step the host device determines the location value of the electronic device based on the flag information. For example when the received flag information corresponds to constant flag information the host device may determine the location value received from the electronic device as the location value of the electronic device . In contrast when the received flag information corresponds to variable flag information the host device may consistently receive the location value from the electronic device and determine a location value received at a time point e.g. at a preset time shortly before a comparison between the location values of the electronic device and the external electronic device or when the location value of the electronic device is most recently received as the location value of the electronic device .

In step the host device determines whether a difference between the determined location value of the electronic device and the location value of the external electronic device is less than or equal to a predetermined threshold location value. For example when the electronic device is located at a latitude of 35.4242 degrees north and a longitude of 134.233 degrees east the external electronic device is located at a latitude of 35.3333 degrees north and a longitude of 133.003 degrees east and a predetermined threshold location value corresponds to a latitude of 4 degrees north and a longitude of 4 degrees east the host device may determine that a difference between the location values of the electronic device and the external electronic device is less than or equal to the predetermined threshold location value.

When it is determined that the difference is greater than the predetermined threshold location value the host device transmits a message informing that the vehicle data involved in the electronic device cannot be extracted to the external electronic device in step .

When it is determined that the difference between the location values of the electronic device and the external electronic device is less than or equal to the predetermined threshold location value the host device extracts the vehicle data involved in the electronic device in step . In this case the vehicle data corresponds to the signal requested by the external electronic device . For example the vehicle data may include at least one of the text signal and the image signal for the vehicle number involved in the electronic device. In step the host device transmits the vehicle data associated with the electronic device to the external electronic device .

According to an embodiment of the present invention in step a host device receives from the external electronic device a signal for requesting vehicle data associated with the electronic device and a location value of the external electronic device . The signal for requesting vehicle data involved in the electronic device may include at least one of a text signal and an image signal for a vehicle number involved in the electronic device . For example the signal for requesting the vehicle data may include a text signal for the vehicle number 03 GA 4587 or an image for the vehicle number acquired through a camera unit of the external electronic device . The location value of the external electronic device may refer to a location value of the external electronic device measured by a sensor unit . More specifically the location value of the external electronic device may refer to the latitude and longitude of the external electronic device .

In step the host device determines whether the vehicle data involved in the electronic device has been stored. When receiving the signal for requesting the vehicle data associated with the electronic device the host device determines whether the vehicle number involved in the electronic device has been stored in a vehicle number and contact number storing module .

The host device transmits to the electronic device a signal for requesting a location value of the electronic device . In response to the request signal the host device receives the location information of the electronic device and flag information from the electronic device in step . In this case the location value of the electronic device may refer to a location value of the electronic device measured by the sensor unit . More specifically the location value of the electronic device may refer to the latitude and longitude of the electronic device . In addition the flag information may refer to constant flag information representing that the location value of the electronic device is fixed or variable flag information representing that the location value of the electronic device may be varied.

In step the host device determines the location value of the electronic device based on the flag information. For example when the received flag information corresponds to constant flag information the host device determines the location value received from the electronic device as the location value of the electronic device . In contrast when the received flag information corresponds to variable flag information the host device receives the location value from the electronic device and determines a location value received at a time point e.g. at a preset time shortly before a comparison between the location values of the electronic device and and the external electronic device or when the location value of the electronic device is most recently received as the location value of the electronic device .

In step the host device determines whether a difference between the determined location value of the electronic device and the location value of the external electronic device is less than or equal to a predetermined threshold location value. For example when the electronic device is located at a latitude of 35.4242 degrees north and a longitude of 134.233 degrees east the external electronic device is located at a latitude of 35.3333 degrees North and a longitude of 133.003 degrees East and a predetermined threshold location value corresponds to a latitude of 4 degrees North and a longitude of 4 degrees East the host device may determine that a difference between the location values of the electronic device and the external electronic device is less than or equal to the predetermined threshold location value.

When it is determined that the difference between the location values of the electronic device and the external electronic device is greater than the threshold location value or the vehicle data has not been stored in the vehicle number and contact number storing module in step the host device transmits a message informing that the vehicle data associated with the electronic device cannot be extracted.

When it is determined that the difference between the location values of the electronic device and the external electronic device is less than or equal to the predetermined threshold location value the host device extracts the vehicle data involved in the electronic device in step . In this case the vehicle data corresponds to the signal requested by the external electronic device . For example the vehicle data may include at least one of the text signal and the image signal for the vehicle number involved in the electronic device. In step the host device transmits the extracted vehicle data associated with the electronic device to the external electronic device .

The programming module according to the present invention may include one or more of the aforementioned components or may further include other additional components or some of the aforementioned components may be omitted. Operations executed by a module a programming module or other component elements according to various embodiments of the present invention may be executed sequentially in parallel repeatedly or in a heuristic manner. Further some operations may be executed according to another order or may be omitted or other operations may be added.

Meanwhile the embodiments of the present invention disclosed in the specification and drawings are merely presented to easily describe technical contents of the present invention and help in the understanding of the present invention and are not intended to limit the scope of the present invention. Therefore all changes or modifications derived from the technical idea of the present invention as well as the embodiments described herein should be interpreted to be within the scope and spirit of the present invention as defined by the appended claims and their equivalents.

