---

title: DVR playlist provisioning system
abstract: A system is provided for the provision of DVR playlists. DVR playlists allow for consumers to manage the availability, arrangement, and type of content to be provided from a DVR such that content items are intelligently added, arranged, played back, and deleted via the DVR playlist. Aspects of the system allow playlists to be created by the system, by the consumer, and in co-operation between the system and the consumer. Content items may also be provisioned, such that a DVR playlist limits playback, while still providing variety and consumer choice. Aspects of the system allow for various seed attributes to affect which content items are automatically chosen to comprise the DVR playlist. Content items may be shared amongst user accounts under a subscriber account so that space on a DVR is more efficiently provisioned.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09578374&OS=09578374&RS=09578374
owner: COX COMMUNICATIONS, INC.
number: 09578374
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150430
---
Digital Video Recorders DVRs allow consumers of video content to record video content for later viewing. DVRs may be either local or networked based and both allow consumers to record and play content on various display devices.

One frequent frustration for consumers is the difficulty and hassle in accessing recorded content from DVRs in a particular order or in frequent succession. Consumers are often forced to manually control the playback of recorded content and must access recorded content separately from streamed content.

Moreover when multiple consumers are associated under one subscriber such as the case when a family or set of roommates share a main account with a service provider video content downloaded may be prematurely deleted by one consumer who has watched the video content before other consumers have had a chance to watch it forcing repeated downloads and wasting time. Alternatively the last consumer to watch the video content may not delete the video content which wastes space on the DVR that could be used for different content items.

It is with respect to these and other considerations that aspects of the present disclosure will be made.

Aspects of the present invention provide for a DVR playlist to be provisioned. DVR playlists allow for consumers to manage the availability arrangement and type of content to be provided from the DVR. Aspects of the system allow playlists to be created by the system by the consumer and in co operation between the system and the consumer. Content items may also be provisioned such that a DVR playlist limits available content items while still providing variety and consumer choice.

Aspects of the system that create DVR playlists allow for various seed attributes to affect the content items chosen to comprise the DVR playlist. Attributes include time content duration consumer preferences consumer viewing history the viewing history of other users account details e.g. access to premium content locally stored content broadcast schedules DVR storage capacity etc.

Aspects of the system that manage DVR playlists allow for content items to be intelligently added arranged played back and deleted. Content items may be shared amongst user accounts under a subscriber account so that space on a DVR networked or local is more efficiently provisioned.

The details of one or more aspects are set forth in the accompanying drawings and description below. Other features and advantages will be apparent from a reading of the following detailed description and a review of the associated drawings. It is to be understood that the following detailed description is explanatory only and is not restrictive of the invention as claimed.

As briefly described above a system for provisioning DVR playlists is disclosed. Aspects of the system allow consumers to set up and manage DVR playlists manually. The system is also operable to suggest system generated DVR playlists to the consumer based on a series of attributes. The consumer may accept the system generated DVR playlist or make modifications to the DVR playlist.

The attributes used in generating the DVR playlists include attributes related to the consumer s past behavior the behavior of other users content metadata and DVR status. Aspects of the system allow for different weights to be placed on different attributes when generating DVR playlists and for the consumer to adjust those weights.

Aspects of the system allow for some attributes to be collected automatically and for others to be input by the consumer. For example consumers can input that they are in the mood for a comedy so that the system knows to suggest content tagged as comedy. Additionally when the system is seeking comedy content it is operable to automatically examine past i.e. prior collected consumer behavior to determine what sort of content that the consumer previously found comedic so that content with higher relevancy is presented to the consumer. A mood is one example of a seed which indicates metadata to base a DVR Playlist on. Seeds are used as the basis for content recommendations and include consumer moods content items existing DVR Playlists the viewing habits of the consumer the viewing habits of other persons sponsored content etc.

The consumer can also manually create a DVR playlist according to aspects of the system. A manually created DVR playlist includes content arranged for playback at the consumer s determination but according to some aspects also includes branching determinations so that a consumer can determine to watch distinct programming within a subset of programming. For example a consumer with two children with different tastes in programming can create DVR playlists for each child limited to age appropriate programming set to branch at the end of playback of one content item to the other child s DVR playlist so that no one child can dominate the television the children are forced to take turns in whose programs are shown.

Aspects of the system also allow for the efficient deletion of content. Multiple persons may be associated with the consumer s DVR such as for example when a household has multiple members using one subscriber account with a service provider. For example when two roommates both place an episode of Seinfeld on their respective DVR playlists only a single download of that episode onto a subscriber account DVR is necessary to provision it to both roommates however if either roommate deletes the episode the other will need to re download it. Alternatively if neither roommate deletes the episode after watching it e.g. they are overly cautious about deleting content items or are forgetful the episode may take up space on the subscriber account DVR that could be better used for new or unwatched content items. Aspects of the system allow for content items to be removed or marked as watched from DVR playlists without deleting the content items from the DVR. Additionally other aspects of the system allow for content items to be automatically deleted from the DVR when the content no longer appears on or is marked as watched on the DVR playlists associated with the DVR storing the content item.

These aspects may be combined other aspects may be used and structural changes may be made without departing from the spirit or scope of the present invention. The following detailed description is therefore not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of the present invention is defined by the appended claims and their equivalents. Referring now to the drawings in which like numerals refer to like elements throughout the several figures embodiments of the present invention and an exemplary operating environment will be described

Components of the DVR Playlist system may operate as a distributed system where each component is accessed via a suitable network or various components of the system may operate together as an integrated system. As illustrated the DVR Playlist system includes a DVR Playlist manager in communication with a video content server . The video content server streams video content items to endpoint devices over a network . Networks suitable for use with the DVR Playlist system include but are not limited to one or more of a television service provider content delivery network the Internet a wide area network and a local area network. Examples of suitable endpoint devices include but are not limited to digital set top boxes STBs personal computers tablet computing devices smart phones smart televisions digital media players and game consoles. A user agent running on the endpoint device receives the content stream and renders the content item on a display associated with the endpoint device such as an external display e.g. a television set a computer monitor a projector etc. or a screen integrated in the endpoint device . A local DVR is illustrated as in communication with one endpoint device but multiple endpoint devices may optionally be in communication with a local DVR via the network . Alternatively the local DVR can be implemented according to some aspects as internal computer readable storage media in one or more endpoint devices such as a DVR integrated in an STB.

Content items include live and pre recorded programs streamed as linear programming e.g. the program lineup on a particular channel . Content items also encompass non linear programming from a video on demand system. As is understood content items can be grouped into a series comprising discrete episodes or editions and series may be subdivided into seasons. For example each nightly broadcast of the evening news may be referred to as an edition i.e. each broadcast within the series i.e. the nightly news . In another example the television series Star Trek comprises several hour long episodes wherein the episodes are subdivided into seasons based on an original broadcast date.

The DVR Playlist manager according to some aspects is in communication with one or more data systems such as but not limited to a video content item data system a user profile data system and a network DVR system .

In operation the consumer is in communication with the endpoint device to view content items and to make selections regarding content items. Selecting content items includes creating managing and being presented with DVR playlists. DVR playlists according to various aspects can be stored locally on an endpoint device or remotely by the DVR Playlist manager . DVR playlists may be shared between multiple endpoint devices and may be associated with individual consumers or a collection of consumers associated with a subscriber account with a video service provider according to various aspects.

To manage DVR Playlists aspects of the DVR Playlist manager are operable to retrieve attributes related to the consumer s past behavior the behavior of other users content metadata network status and DVR status. Past consumer behavior includes data related to but not limited to content items viewed by the consumer content items presented to but rejected by the consumer for viewing the portion of a content item viewed by a consumer order of viewing content items consumer input preferences or commands and consumer permission levels. The behavior of other users includes past consumer behavior for persons or subscriber accounts other than the consumer as well as relational data between the consumer and the other user including but not limited to whether a social media relationship exists between the consumer and the other user whether a consumer input preference or command establishes a relationship whether a demographic relationship exists e.g. both the consumer and the other user identify as a household with common ethnicities common income levels adults over the age of 65 children under the age of 10 etc. and whether a geographic relationship exits e.g. the consumer and the other user reside in the same ZIP code reside in the same neighborhood receive content from the same service provider etc. . Content metadata includes data about the content data i.e. metadata such as running time language options cast information popularity data critical review data date of premiere relationship data with other content items e.g. sequels remakes common cast etc. and content advisories e.g. violent content adult situations drug use etc. . Attributes related to DVR status include but are not limited to available storage capacity of the DVR whether the DVR is local or network based processing speed of the DVR physical status of the DVR e.g. on off status number of tuners available active playback standby mode etc. etc.

The DVR Playlist manager uses the attributes to manage how to provide consumers with content items. According to one aspect a consumer manually creates a DVR playlist to be managed for exact provision by the DVR playlist manager . For example when the consumer selects the first three episodes of a television series for back to back sequential provision the DVR Playlist manager retrieves each episode from the video content server and streams the first second and then third episodes to a designated endpoint device such that there are no interruptions between the playback of each episode. According to another aspect the consumer may prompt the DVR playlist manager that the consumer wishes to watch dramatic content items viewed by the consumer s co workers for example to be ready to discuss the content items the next day at work which the DVR playlist manager will interpret as a command to examine the behavior of other users who qualify as co workers to present the consumer with a DVR playlist containing candidate content items to watch which the consumer is prompted to select from before provisioning content items from the video content server to a designated endpoint device .

The DVR Playlist system includes a cache operable to store various types of information. For example for a given session data relating to a consumer s consumption patterns are temporarily stored in the cache for use by the DVR Playlist manager before the data is stored in the user profile data system . The cache is illustrated in as a remote element but may be integrated with the DVR Playlist manager .

As another example if the consumer selects to access a content item recorded on a network DVR system the DVR Playlist manager is operable to access the content item from the consumer s network DVR system send the video content item for display on an endpoint device and update the DVR playlist accordingly.

According to some aspects the DVR Playlist manager may be a software application having sufficient computer executable instructions for performing the functions described herein. The DVR Playlist manager may operate as part of a video content service provider system or as a standalone application or service that may be called on by any service or content service provider system that can communicate over the network for providing the functionality described herein.

The Playlist Engine includes a communication module operable to receive communications indicating which content items a consumer wants to be played back via an endpoint device . The communication module parses the communications and transmits them to a construction module which is operable to build a playlist comprising the indicated content items. According to various aspects the construction module includes a selection module operable to parse the communications to interpret a seed wherein the seed indicates which content items the consumer wants to be played back based on a metadata analysis. The construction module is in communication with an availability module which stores subscriber account permissions and is operable to locate content items to build a DVR playlist with and determine whether those content items comply with the subscriber account permissions. The construction module and availability module are in communication with a provision module which is operable to determine an order to play back the content items that comprise a DVR playlist and to enable the playback of those content items according to the order on the endpoint device .

The communication module is operable to receive communications from an endpoint device directly or indirectly that indicate what content items a consumer wants to use as part of a DVR playlist. According to various aspects a consumer may communicate which content items comprise a DVR playlist manually use a content item or multiple content items as a seed for the Playlist Engine to build a DVR playlist from direct the Playlist Engine to build a DVR playlist from a seed or select a pre built DVR playlist to start or continue playback from.

The construction module is operable to build DVR playlists for an improved provisioning of content items. DVR playlists are comprised of content items and according to some aspects may include auxiliary data necessary for the titling listing management ordering etc. of those content items as part of a DVR playlist. Building a DVR playlist includes creating a DVR playlist and expanding a DVR playlist by adding content items and in some aspects updating any auxiliary data to reflect the building process where appropriate. The auxiliary data in some aspects enable the DVR playlist to be portable between service providers so that for example a consumer can use a DVR playlist generated by a friend who has a different service provider. The construction module is in communication with the availability module so that the DVR playlist is built from content items that are available to the consumer . Other aspects allow the construction module to build a DVR playlist with placeholders for content items that are not yet available to the consumer such as for example a pay per view content item that the consumer has not yet purchased or a yet to premiere episode of a TV show which the construction module is operable to replace when the content item becomes available such as for example when the example pay per view content item is purchased or the example TV episode premieres.

In aspects in which content items are not exclusively added manually by a consumer a selection module of the construction module is invoked. The selection module is operable to determine which content items are to be added to a DVR playlist. To make this determination the selection module parses the communications to determine a seed to match content items to. In various aspects a seed may be explicitly communicated such as for example when a consumer selects a mood via a user interface as described below in relation to or implicitly communicated such as for example when a consumer uses a content item as a seed as described below in relation to . Content items that have metadata matching the communicated seed e.g. content items tagged as comedy are matched with a Comedy mood are selected to automatically build a DVR playlist with. As will be understood content items can contain significant amounts of metadata and the selection module is operable to weigh the various metadata based on consumer history to provide more relevant content items. For example a content item with comedy metadata may also have subcategories of metadata e.g. dark comedy musical comedy animated slapstick etc. or compositional metadata e.g. movie sitcom actor actress data date of premiere critical reception etc. that the selection module uses to refine the selection of content items. Content items may also belong to multiple categories such as for example Comedy and Drama. The selection module is operable to identify content items with metadata that match the seed and further analyzes the consumer history to determine additional subcategorical and compositional metadata to determine consumer preferences e.g. dark comedies comedies from the 1960s content involving James Earl Jones etc. . Preferences may be weighted by the selection module or be pre weighted by a user profile data system based on the consumer history or manually weighted by a consumer via preferences or explicit communication of the weighting to be used. As will be understood when a content item has a higher weighting the selection module is operable to choose that content item over a different content item having a lower weighting. Various aspects allow for the selection module to be in communication with the network to access data necessary to execute its functions without having to store that data within or local to the Playlist Engine .

The availability module is operable to locate content items that comprise the DVR playlist and to determine whether the consumer is allowed to access those content items i.e. whether a content item complies with subscriber account permissions . The availability module is operable to locate content items present on a DVR associated with the consumer on a service provider s CDN or on a third party CDN other third party service available to the consumer e.g. a streaming site on the internet a storage site on the internet NetFlix Amazon etc. . The availability module is operable to store subscriber account permissions for the consumer e.g. parental controls service provider account information username password pairs for third party services credit card authorizations etc. to determine whether a located content item is an available content item for the consumer . For example if the availability module locates a copy of a content item that is rated TV MA but parental controls block content items rated TV MA the located content item is determined to not be available. According to aspects the availability module will not search for content items from locations that the subscriber account permissions do not allow e.g. the availability module will not search NetFlix when the subscriber account permission do not include NetFlix account information . The availability module is in communication with the network to access and locate the content items to determine their availability the construction module to receive and modify playlists and the provision module to indicate whether the content items comply with subscriber account permissions.

The provision module is operable to determine an order for playback of available content items from a playlist and to enable the playback of those items. Enabling the playback of content items according to various embodiments includes uploading or causing a download of a content item to an endpoint device or an associated storage device providing an endpoint device credentials and location data for accessing the content item tuning an endpoint device to receive the content item via a stream or broadcast and pointing a content provider to the endpoint device and initiating a stream of the content item. The order for playback includes playback orders that are sequential e.g. after the currently displayed content item terminates the one next to be displayed content item is determined for playback or branching e.g. multiple content items are presented as potentially being the next to be displayed content item . Both sequential and branching playback may be set according to a fixed order or a random order. According to some aspects when branching playback is set to a fixed order a given content item that is presented but not selected as the next to be displayed content item will be presented after each termination of the currently displayed content item until it is selected or explicitly rejected.

The provision module is operable to provide branching playback with one DVR playlist or multiple DVR playlists. When multiple playlists are used in branching playback the provision module is operable to only present content item from one DVR playlist at a time. For example if a parent sets up playlist one with episodes of Transformers and Pok mon for a first child and playlist two with episodes of Arthur and Dora the Explorer for a second child the provision module will prompt for a selection between Transformers and Pok mon for playback and at termination of the selected content item from playlist one i.e. either Transformers or Pok mon prompts for a selection between Arthur and Dora the Explorer from playlist two for playback. Aspects of the provision module allow for an endpoint device to be locked into the provision of DVR playlists to thereby provide a limited viewing environment thus only allowing playback from approved DVR playlists. In this manner provision module can force variety in playback while simultaneously maintaining limited access.

In a UI for manually managing DVR Playlists is illustrated. In the illustrated aspect the consumer has navigated the UI to select Content Item from Local DVR to Add to Playlist . To enable this navigation a DVR playlist composition window is provided to enable the consumer to determine what content items and other playlists currently compose a selected DVR playlist. The consumer is also provided a command selection window from which a consumer can select various commands related to DVR playlist management including but not limited to Add New Content to Playlists Switch Playlists Create New Playlists Manage Playlist Content e.g. removing content sequential reordering setting branching playback etc. Edit Playlist Settings e.g. associated consumers parental permissions retention policies etc. Delete Playlist and Cancel.

In the illustrated aspect of UI in a consumer has highlighted the command Add New Content to Playlist from command selection window . In response to the consumer command UI presents a first refinement window . In first refinement window the consumer has highlighted Local DVR which prompts the UI to provide second refinement window . The refinement windows are operable to provide the consumer with more detailed commands based on the entered commands from the command selection window and any previous refinement windows similar to a menu system. More or fewer refinement windows are presented according to different commands and different aspects of UI .

In a UI for setting a seed for automatically creating a playlist is illustrated. Several mood options are provided for the consumer to select from to provide the system with a basis for a DVR playlist. A content toggle is also provided to the consumer to select what type of content items are to be included in the DVR playlist. As is illustrated in the DVR playlist will be built from both TV shows and Movies but if the consumer selects the content toggle the content to build the DVR playlist will cycle through different options e.g. TV shows Movies On Demand Content TV shows and Movies etc. A refinement option is also provided so that new non standard or consumer defined mood options are provided to the consumer such as for example Science Fiction or Children s Programming moods not illustrated . Once the consumer has selected a seed such as the highlighted mood option for Comedy the system will automatically generate a DVR playlist based on the selected mood option and the displayed content type on content toggle and begins provisioning the content items to the consumer .

In a UI for building a DVR playlist in response to a content item is illustrated. UI is illustrated with two sub aspects an additive UI which is provided to enable the consumer to add a currently displayed including recently completed content item to an existing playlist and a creative UI which is provided to create a new DVR playlist based on the currently displayed content item.

Additive UI is illustrated with three options a Just this Occurrence option an All Occurrences option and a Never option . Option enables the currently displayed content item to be added to a DVR playlist. When multiple DVR playlists exist within the system a sub dialog is generated in aspects of the system to allow the consumer to select which DVR playlist the content item should be added to.

Option enables all occurrences of the currently displayed content item to be added to the DVR playlist such that for example when the consumer selects option while watching the Nightly News on Monday the system will know to add Tuesday s edition of the Nightly News to the DVR playlist. Another aspect of option is that the system is enabled to find On Demand and previously recorded content items such that for example when the consumer selects option while watching season 1 episode 3 of Star Trek the system will know to add additional episodes of Star Trek to the DVR playlist so that episodes 1 and 2 of season 1 of Star Trek are added to the DVR playlist as well as the rest of the season. Various aspects of the system allow for all of the episodes of a series to be added all of an individual season of a series to be added or a set number of episodes to be added based on system default settings and user preferences. Aspects also allow for at least some of the content items to be added to the DVR playlist without downloading those content items so that a consumer can keep track of content items desired to be watched without filling an associated DVR beyond its capacity to store those content items. Aspects of the system allow for future episodes of an on going season to be added to the DVR playlist and for those episodes to be provisioned once they have premiered.

Option prevents the currently displayed content item from being added to a DVR playlist. The system is operable to distinguish from a consumer not choosing to add a content item to a DVR playlist such as for example when a cancel or back command is issued and selecting a Never option . When a Never option has been selected aspects of the system are enabled to prevent the content item or related content items e.g. other episodes from a series from being added the DVR playlist or to future generated DVR playlists. A Never option can be of particular utility to prevent the system from re recommending content items that the consumer does not care for.

Creative UI is illustrated with two options Only this Series option and Find Similar Programs option . Similarly to option aspects of option allow for all or a portion of a series to be added to the DVR playlist.

Option enables the system to build a DVR playlist using the currently displayed content item as a seed which is used to find similar content items. Similar content items to include in the DVR playlist are chosen by the system based on common metadata and the viewing history of other users determining a correlation of other users including both a prospective content item on a DVR playlist and the seed content item. According to various aspects the seed content item s metadata is analyzed to determine a tone for the seed content item that is used as the seed data. According to one aspect the tone is matched to an existing mood option such as those discussed in relation to . Aspects of the system allow for checking compliance with subscriber account permission so that content items for which the consumer does not have rights to e.g. a lapsed premium content subscription or that have been blocked e.g. by parental controls by a remembered Never command etc. to be removed from or not added to a DVR playlist so that only desired available content items are included in the DVR playlist.

For example consumer selecting option in response to having an episode of Star Trek The Next Generation as the currently displayed content item the system provisions a DVR playlist as described herein. The system adds two other episodes of Star Trek The Next Generation based on metadata as two of the highest rated episodes of the currently displayed content items series. The system adds the first episode of Star Trek Deep Space Nine based on metadata establishing a relationship between the two series e.g. common name common cast inserted metadata links etc. . The system adds the movie Star Wars The Empire Strikes Back based on metadata establishing a common genre. The system attempts to add an episode of Babylon 5 based on viewing history of other users establishing a correlation between Babylon 5 and Star Trek The Next Generation but because Babylon 5 is only available via a premium subscription which consumer lacks Babylon 5 is not added to the DVR playlist.

The system once content items have been identified is operable to arrange the content items on the DVR playlist and provide the content items to the consumer for viewing. One aspect of the system allows for multi part episodes to be identified for back to back play such that in the above example if the two episodes of Star Trek The Next Generation previously added can be identified by metadata including episode titles as a two part episode the arrangement in the DVR playlist will preserve their sequential nature i.e. the first episode will be presented prior to the second episode and no content items will be provisioned on the DVR playlist between the two . One of ordinary skill will understand that more and different metadata or aspects of prior viewing history of other users and combinations thereof may be used in determining whether to provision a content item based on a seed content item and that the examples described herein illustrate but one possible aspect.

In a UI for building a DVR playlist based on the viewing habits of other users is illustrated. Several options for how to build a DVR playlist are possible of which four are illustrated Individuals option Nearby option Social Media option and Trending option .

 Individuals option enables the system to create a DVR playlist based on another consumer or consumers . For example a consumer may wish to keep up to date on programs viewed by co workers or friends. The system is operable to accept an identifier such as a user name subscriber number etc. to identify the other consumer and to look for content items on that other consumer s DVR playlist or prior viewing history. For security reasons the system may prompt the other consumer to allow the sharing of DVR playlists or prior viewing history with the consumer before sharing may require a passcode from the consumer provided by the other consumer may be limited to DVR playlists marked by the other consumer as public etc.

 Nearby option enables the system to create a DVR playlist based on the aggregated DVR playlists or viewing habits of other users in a defined geographic area. For example other users considered nearby can include in various aspects other users within the same postal code within the same neighborhood served by the same head end server served by the same service provider or within a fixed radius of the consumer .

 Social Media option enables the system to create a DVR playlist based on the parsed references made by social media contacts. For example a consumer can link a service provider account with a social media account e.g. Facebook MySpace LinkedIn eHarmony etc. so that the system can create playlists to keep the consumer up to date on programs viewed by social media contacts. In one example a consumer has a playlist created based on Facebook contacts including direct contacts and contacts of direct contacts so that comments including the names of content items and profile information related to content items are parsed to build a DVR playlist containing those content items. Similarly in another example a consumer has a playlist based on eHarmony matches who are above a certain compatibility score so that the consumer can watch content items flagged by potential dates so that the consumer and potential date have more to talk about.

 Trending option enables the system to create a DVR playlist based on the inclusion of a content item in DVR playlists or the viewing habits of other users over a period of time compared against a baseline inclusion rate. The system is operable to note changes in rate of viewing or adding content items to DVR playlists across a population of users so that a rising or a falling popularity of the content item can be noted. Additionally the system is operable to note when a certain percentage of a population of users have viewed or added a content item to a DVR playlist and note the associated content item as having a high popularity. When a consumer selects a Trending option the system builds a DVR playlist comprised of content items that are noted as having rising or high popularity so that the consumer can keep pace with trends in viewing popular content items.

In a playback UI is illustrated. A command window is illustrated as displaying a playlist and a content item in which a consumer has highlighted the playlist. The playback UI on receiving an indication that the playlist is highlighted is operable to provide the consumer with navigation icons to enable a consumer to navigate potential playlists. For example the consumer can select the navigation icons to change the highlighted playlist from playlist to playlist N. Similarly when the content item is highlighted in the playback UI aspects allow the navigation icons to be displayed by the content item and to affect the selection of the content item such that for example the consumer can select the navigation icons to change the highlighted content item from item to item N wherein the content items comprise the selected playlist. The system also presents a cancel option to enable the consumer to back out of viewing DVR playlists as part of playback UI .

In response to a particular playlist and content item being displayed in the command window playlist information window and item preview window are displayed according to aspects of the system. Each of the windows present information about the associated playlist or content item shown in the command window . Information includes but is not limited to descriptions names contents playback settings plot synopses cast premier date content rating etc.

In a branching UI is illustrated. Two content options are provided by aspects of the system for a consumer to choose between. The system also presents a cancel option to enable the consumer to back out of viewing DVR playlists as part of branching UI . First option is illustrated as highlighted by a consumer such that on selection item from playlist will be provisioned instead of item from playlist offered in second option . An optional countdown indicator is illustrated so that at the end of an optional countdown period if the consumer has not made a selection a selection of an option will be made by the system. As will be understood by one skilled in the art more or fewer options may be presented that offer choices comprised of more or fewer content items and playlists.

Aspects of the system allow for the selected options to be tracked so as to affect future options presented. If for example a consumer is presented with an automatically generated DVR playlist that branches the system is operable to note which branches are selected and to further refine the DVR playlist or future generated DVR playlists to account for the consumer s choices.

In another aspect the system is operable to limit the presentation of branches based on previously selected branches. For example a branching playlist may be set up by a parent to include a first play list comprised of content items enjoyed by a first child and a second playlist comprised of content items enjoyed by a second child. When a new content item is requested such as for example at the conclusion of a previous content item the branching playlist may present the children with a choice between content items on both associated playlists or may limit the presentation to content items present on a playlist other than the playlist a previous content item was selected from the system may alternate which playlist content items are selected from thus forcing the children to take turns. As will be understood allowing the system to limit the presentation of playlists can operate with more or fewer playlists content items and options than used in the above example. As will also be understood the system may limit presentation as a hard rule or as a soft rule which respectively never allow repetitive presentation or reduce a likelihood of repetitive presentation.

Method then proceeds to OPERATION where the content items comprising the DVR playlist are played back. Once playback has terminated for a content item i.e. the playback is complete or an end of playback is otherwise communicated method proceeds to operation for cleanup of the DVR playlist. According to various aspects cleanup includes at least one of removing the played back content item from the DVR playlist retaining the played back content item on the DVR playlist but marking it as viewed readable by a machine or by a consumer and deleting the played back content item from a computer storage medium. As is discussed above if cleanup includes deleting the played back content item from a computer storage medium aspects of OPERATION include checking the other DVR playlists associated with the computer storage medium from which the content item is to be deleted so that cleaning up the playback of one DVR playlist does not affect the playback of another DVR playlist or force re transmission and re storage therefore . Method then concludes at STOP .

When the input at DECISION OPERATION indicates to continue playing back content items method proceeds to DECISION OPERATION where it is determined whether playback is set up for branching. When it is determined at DECISION OPERATION that playback is not to branch method returns to OPERATION to automatically play back the next content item from the DVR playlist. As discussed above playing back content items according to various aspects includes sequential random and user selected playback options for selecting the next content item to provision from a DVR playlist and may automatically delete previously played back content items from the DVR playlist or the DVR or mark them as viewed and thereby prevent repeated playback within a single execution of method .

When it is determined at DECISION OPERATION that playback is to branch method returns to OPERATION to select another DVR playlist and content item. Branching playback may be enabled as discussed above with one or more DVR playlists for automatic or manual branching according to various aspects and may include or exclude content items from the previously selected DVR playlist when content items are presented for selection.

Computing devices may be implemented in different ways in different embodiments. For instance in the example of the computing device includes a processing system memory device a network interface a secondary storage device an input device a video interface communicated with a display unit and a communications medium . In other embodiments the computing device may be implemented using more or fewer hardware components or in combination with other types of computer systems and program modules. The memory device includes one or more computer readable storage media capable of storing data or computer executable instructions that when executed by processor provide preset user group functionality as described herein.

The memory device includes one or more computer readable storage media capable of storing data or computer executable instructions. Memory device thus may store the computer executable instructions that when executed by processing system automatically switching the user based on usage data as described with reference to . In various embodiments the memory device is implemented in various ways. For example the memory device can be implemented as various types of computer readable storage media. Example types of computer readable storage media include but are not limited to solid state memory flash memory dynamic random access memory DRAM double data rate synchronous dynamic random access memory DDR SDRAM DDR2 SDRAM DDR3 SDRAM read only memory ROM reduced latency DRAM electrically erasable programmable ROM EEPROM and other types of devices or articles of manufacture that store data.

The term computer readable media includes transmission media and computer readable storage media. The term transmission media includes communication and information delivery media. Computer executable instructions data structures and program modules may be embodied on a transmission medium. For example transmission media can include wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic radio frequency RF infrared and other wireless media.

The term computer readable storage medium and its plural computer readable storage media refers to devices and articles of manufacture that store data or computer executable instructions readable by a computing device. The term computer readable storage medium does not include transmission media. The term computer readable storage medium encompasses volatile and nonvolatile and removable and non removable media implemented in various methods or technologies for storage and retrieval of information. Such information can include data structures program modules computer executable instructions or other data.

The secondary storage device includes one or more computer readable storage media and may store data and computer executable instructions not directly accessible by the processing system . That is the processing system performs an I O operation to retrieve data or computer executable instructions from the secondary storage device . In various embodiments the secondary storage device can be implemented as various types of computer readable storage media such as by one or more magnetic disks magnetic tape drives CD ROM discs DVD ROM discs BLU RAY discs solid state memory devices or other types of computer readable storage media.

The processing system includes one or more processing units which may include tangible integrated circuits that selectively execute computer executable instructions. In various embodiments the processing units in the processing system are implemented in various ways. For example the processing units in the processing system can be implemented as one or more processing cores. In another example the processing system can comprise one or more separate microprocessors. In yet another example embodiment the processing system can comprise Application Specific Integrated Circuits ASICs that provide specific functionality. In yet another example the processing system provides specific functionality by using an ASIC and by executing computer executable instructions.

The computing device may be enabled to send data to and receive data from a communication network via a network interface . In different embodiments the network interface is implemented in different ways such as an Ethernet interface a token ring network interface a fiber optic network interface a wireless network interface e.g. Wi Fi Wi Max etc. or another type of network interface. The network interface may allow the device to communicate with other devices such as over a wireless network in a distributed computing environment a satellite link a cellular link and comparable mechanisms. Other devices may include computer device s that execute communication applications storage servers and comparable devices.

The input device enables the computing device to receive input from a user. Example types of input devices include but are not limited to keyboards mice trackballs stylus input devices keypads microphones joysticks touch sensitive display screens and other types of devices that provide user input to the computing device .

The video interface outputs video information to the display unit . In different embodiments the video interface is implemented in different ways. For example the video interface may be a video expansion card. In another example the video interface is integrated into a motherboard of the computing device . In various embodiments the display unit can be an LCD display panel a touch sensitive display panel an LED screen a projector a cathode ray tube display or another type of display unit. In various embodiments the video interface communicates with the display unit in various ways. For example the video interface can communicate with the display unit via a Universal Serial Bus USB connector a VGA connector a digital visual interface DVI connector an S Video connector a High Definition Multimedia Interface HDMI connector a DisplayPort connector or another type of connection.

The communications medium facilitates communication among the hardware components of the computing device . In different embodiments the communications medium facilitates communication among different components of the computing device . For instance in the example of the communications medium facilitates communication among the memory device the processing system the network interface the secondary storage device the input device and the video interface . In different embodiments the communications medium is implemented in different ways such as a PCI bus a PCI Express bus an accelerated graphics port AGP bus an Infiniband interconnect a serial Advanced Technology Attachment ATA interconnect a parallel ATA interconnect a Fiber Channel interconnect a USB bus a Small Computer System Interface SCSI interface or another type of transmission medium.

The memory device stores various types of data or software instructions. For instance in the example of the memory device stores a Basic Input Output System BIOS and an operating system . The BIOS includes a set of software instructions that when executed by the processing system cause the computing device to boot up. The operating system includes a set of software instructions that when executed by the processing system cause the computing device to provide an operating system that coordinates the activities and sharing of resources of the computing device . The memory device also stores one or more application programs that when executed by the processing system cause the computing device to provide applications to users. The memory device also stores one or more utility programs that when executed by the processing system cause the computing device to provide utilities to other software programs.

Embodiments of the present invention may be used in various distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network in a distributed computing environment.

Data input to the mobile computing device may be performed via a variety of suitable means such as touch screen input via the display screen keyboard or keypad input via a data entry area key input via one or more selectable buttons or controls voice input via a microphone disposed on the mobile computing device photographic input via a camera functionality associated with the mobile computing device or any other suitable input means. Data may be output via the mobile computing device via any suitable output means including but not limited to display on the display screen audible output via an associated speaker or connected earphone system vibration module for providing tactile output and the like.

Referring now to operational unit is illustrative of internal operating functionality of the mobile computing device . A processor is illustrative of a general purpose computer processor for processing incoming and outgoing data and communications and controlling operation of the device and associated software applications via a mobile computing device operating system. Memory may be used for storing a device operating system device programming one or more stored applications for example mobile telephone applications data processing applications calculators games Internet browsing applications navigation applications acceleration applications camera or video applications etc.

Mobile computing device may contain an accelerometer for detecting acceleration and can be used to sense orientation vibration or shock. Mobile computing device may contain a global positioning system GPS subsystem e.g. GPS send receive functionality . A GPS subsystem uses radio waves to communicate with satellites orbiting the Earth. Some GPS enabled mobile computing devices use wireless assisted GPS to determine a user s location wherein the device uses orbiting GPS satellites in conjunction with information about the device s mobile phone signal. Radio functions include all required functionality including onboard antennas for allowing the mobile computing device to communicate with other communication devices and systems via a wireless network. Radio functions may be used to communicate with a wireless or WIFI based positioning system to determine the location of a mobile computing device .

The CATV system is in the form of a distributed client server computing system for providing video and data flow across the HFC network between server side services providers e.g. cable television services providers via a server side head end and a client side customer via STB in communication with a customer receiving device such as the television set . As is understood by those skilled in the art modern CATV systems may provide a variety of services across the HFC network including traditional digital and analog video programming telephone services high speed Internet access video on demand and information services.

On the client side of the CATV system digital and analog video programming and digital and analog data are provided to the customer television set via the STB . Interactive television services that allow a customer to input data to the CATV system likewise are provided by the STB . As illustrated in the STB is a multipurpose computing device having a computer processor memory and an input output mechanism. The input output mechanism receives input from server side processes via the HFC network and from customers via input devices such as the remote control device keyboard or other computing device such as a tablet slate computer mobile computing device etc. The remote control device and the keyboard may communicate with the STB via a suitable communication transport such as the infrared connection . The STB also includes a video processor for processing and providing digital and analog video signaling to the television set via a cable communication transport . A multi channel tuner is provided for processing video and data to and from the STB and the server side head end system described below.

The STB also includes an operating system for directing the functions of the STB in conjunction with a variety of client applications . For example if a client application requires a news flash from a third party news source to be displayed on the television set the operating system may cause the graphics functionality and video processor of the STB for example to output the news flash to the television set at the direction of the client application responsible for displaying news items.

Because a variety of different operating systems may be used by a variety of different brands and types of STB a middleware layer may be provided to allow a given software application to be executed by a variety of different operating systems . According to an aspect the middleware layer may include a set of application programming interfaces APIs that are exposed to client applications and operating systems that allow the client applications to communicate with the operating systems through common data calls understood via the API set. As described below a corresponding middleware layer is included on the server side of the CATV system for facilitating communication between the server side application server and the client side STB . The middleware layer of the server side application server and the middleware layer of the client side STB may format data passed between the client side and server side according to the Extensible Markup Language XML .

According to one aspect the STB passes digital and analog video and data signaling to the television set via a one way communication transport . According to other aspects two way communication transports may be used for example via high definition multimedia HDMI ports. The STB may receive video and data from the server side of the CATV system via the HFC network through a video data downlink and data via a data downlink. The STB may transmit data from the client side of the CATV system to the server side of the CATV system via the HFC network via one data uplink. The video data downlink is an in band downlink that allows for digital and analog video and data signaling from the server side of the CATV system through the HFC network to the STB for use by the STB and for distribution to the television set . As is understood by those skilled in the art the in band signaling space operates at a relative high frequency e.g. between 54 and 400 megahertz. The signaling space is generally divided into 6 megahertz channels in which may be transmitted as a single analog signal or a greater number e.g. ten of digital signals.

The data downlink and the data uplink illustrated in between the HFC network and the STB comprise out of band data links. As is understand by those skilled in the art the out of band frequency range is generally at a lower frequency than in band signaling. For example the out of band frequency range may be between zero and 54 megahertz. Data flow between the client side STB and the server side application server is typically passed through the out of band data links. Alternatively an in band data carousel may be positioned in an in band channel into which a data feed may be processed from the server side application server through the HFC network to the client side STB . Operation of data transport between components of the CATV system described with reference to is well known to those skilled in the art.

Referring still to the head end of the CATV system is positioned on the server side of the CATV system and includes hardware and software systems responsible for originating and managing content for distributing through the HFC network to client side STBs for presentation to customers via television sets . As described above a number of services may be provided by the CATV system including digital and analog video programming interactive television services telephone services video on demand services targeted advertising and provision of information content.

The application server is a computing system operative to assemble and manage data sent to and received from the client side STB via the HFC network . As described above with reference to the STB the application server includes a middleware layer for processing and preparing data from the head end of the CATV system for receipt and use by the client side STB . For example the application server via the middleware layer may obtain data from third party services via the Internet for transmitting to a customer through the HFC network and the STB . For example content data and metadata of a third party service may be downloaded by the application server via the Internet . When the application server receives the downloaded third party services the middleware layer may be used to format the content metadata for receipt and use by the STB . Therefore content metadata may be sent and categorized based on the availability to the customer s program guide data

According to one aspect data obtained and managed by the middleware layer of the application server is formatted according to the Extensible Markup Language and is passed to the STB through the HFC network where the XML formatted data may be used by a client application in concert with the middleware layer as described above. As should be appreciated by those skilled in the art a variety of third party services data including news data weather data sports data and other information content may be obtained by the application server via distributed computing environments such as the Internet for provision to customers via the HFC network and the STB . Similarly content e.g. Internet television content and other internet protocol video based content is displayed to the customer on the user s client device .

According to aspects the application server obtains customer support services data including billing data information on customer work order status answers to frequently asked questions services provider contact information and the like from data services for provision to the customer via an interactive television session. As illustrated in the services provider data services include a number of services operated by the services provider of the CATV system which may include data on a given customer.

A billing system may include information such as a customer s name street address business identification number Social Security number credit history and information regarding services and products subscribed to by the customer. According to aspects the billing system may also include billing data for services and products subscribed to by the customer for bill processing billing presentment and payment receipt.

An email system may include information such as user accounts address books archived messages subscriber profiles subscribers IDs and passwords used by customers for access to electronic mail services.

An authentication system may include information such as secure user names subscriber profiles subscriber IDs and passwords used by customers for access to network services.

A customer information database may include general information about customers such as place of employment business address business telephone number and demographic information such as age gender educational level and the like. The customer information database may also include information on pending work orders for services or products ordered by the customer. The customer information database may also include general customer information such as answers to frequently asked customer questions and contact information for various service provider offices departments. As should be understood this information may be stored in a variety of disparate databases operated by the cable services provider.

As should be understood by those skilled in the art the disparate systems may be integrated or provided in any combination of separate systems wherein shows only one example.

Referring still to web services system is illustrated between the application server and the data services . According to aspects web services system serves as a collection point for data requested from each of the disparate data services systems comprising data services . According to aspects when the application server requires customer services data from one or more of the data services the application server passes a data query to the web services system . The web services system formulates a data query to each of the available data services systems for obtaining any required data for a requesting customer as identified by an STB identification associated with the customer. The web services system serves as an abstraction layer between the various data services systems and the application server . That is the application server is not required to communicate with the disparate data services systems nor is the application server required to understand the data structures or data types used by the disparate data services systems . The web services system is operative to communicate with each of the disparate data services systems for obtaining necessary customer data. The customer data obtained by the web services system is assembled and is returned to the application server for ultimate processing via the middleware layer as described above.

Embodiments the invention may be used in combination with any number of computer systems such as in desktop environments laptop or notebook computer systems multiprocessor systems micro processor based or programmable consumer electronics networked PCs mini computers mainframe computers mobile communication device systems and the like. Embodiments of the present invention may be used in various distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network in a distributed computing environment and where programs may be located in both local and remote memory storage.

Embodiments for example are described above with reference to block diagrams or operational illustrations of methods systems and computer program products according to embodiments. The functions acts noted in the blocks may occur out of the order as shown in any flowchart or described herein with reference to the figures. For example two processes shown or described in succession may in fact be executed substantially concurrently or the blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order depending upon the functionality acts involved.

While certain embodiments have been described other embodiments may exist. Furthermore although embodiments have been described as being associated with data stored in memory and other storage mediums data may also be stored on or read from other types of computer readable storage media such as secondary storage devices like hard disks floppy disks a CD ROM or other forms of RAM or ROM. Further the disclosed processes may be modified in any manner including by reordering inserting or deleting a step or process without departing from the embodiments.

The foregoing description of the exemplary embodiments of the invention has been presented for the purposes of illustration and description. It is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise form disclosed. Many modifications and variations are possible in light of the above teaching. It is intended that the scope of the invention be limited not with this detailed description but rather by the claims appended hereto.

