---

title: Method and apparatus for receiving an insurance quote from an image
abstract: Some aspects of the invention relate to a mobile apparatus including an image sensor configured to convert an optical image into an electrical signal. The optical image includes an image of a vehicle license plate. The mobile apparatus includes a license plate detector configured to process the electrical signal to recover information from the vehicle license plate image. The mobile apparatus includes an interface configured to transmit the vehicle license plate information to a remote apparatus and receive an insurance quote for a vehicle corresponding to the vehicle license plate in response to the transmission.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09589202&OS=09589202&RS=09589202
owner: Blinker, Inc.
number: 09589202
owner_city: Denver
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150519
---
This application claims the benefit of priority from U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 318 397 entitled METHOD AND SYSTEM FOR PROVIDING A VALUATION DERIVED FROM AN IMAGE filed on Jun. 27 2014 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 455 841 entitled METHOD AND SYSTEM FOR PROVIDING A LISTING OF VEHICLES BASED ON VEHICLE LICENSE PLATE INFORMATION FROM A SIMILAR VEHICLE filed on Aug. 8 2014 and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 613 323 entitled METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR RECOVERING LICENSE PLATE INFORMATION FROM AN IMAGE filed on Feb. 3 2015.

The present disclosure relates generally to a method and apparatus for detecting license plate information from an image of a license plate and more specifically detecting license plate information from an optical image captured by a mobile apparatus that includes a license plate image and several other object images.

In recent years collecting still images of license plates has become a common tool used by authorities to catch the drivers of vehicles that may engage in improper or unlawful activity. For example law enforcement authorities have set up stationary traffic cameras to photograph the license plates of vehicles that may be traveling above a posted speed limit at a specific portion of a road or vehicles that drive through red lights. Toll booth operators also commonly use such stationary cameras to photograph vehicles that may pass through a toll booth without paying the required toll. However all of these scenarios have a common thread. The camera must be manually installed and configured such that it will always photograph the vehicle s license plate at a specific angle and when the vehicle is in a specific location. Any unexpected modifications such as a shift in angle or location of the camera would render the camera incapable of properly collecting license plate images.

Additionally camera equipped mobile apparatuses e.g. smartphones have become increasingly prevalent in today s society. Mobile apparatuses are frequently used to capture optical images and for many users serve as a replacement for a simple digital camera because the camera equipped mobile apparatus provides an image that is often as good as those produced by simple digital cameras and can easily be transmitted shared over a network.

The positioning constraints put on the traffic cameras make it difficult to take images of license plates from different angles and distances and still achieve an accurate reading. Therefore it would be difficult to scale the same license plate image capture process performed by law enforcement authorities to mobile apparatuses. In other words it is difficult to derive license plate information from an image of a license plate taken from a mobile image capture apparatus at a variety of angles distances ambient conditions mobile apparatus motion and when other object images are also in the image which hinders a user s ability to easily gather valuable information about specific vehicles when engaging in a number of different vehicle related activities such as buying and selling vehicles insuring vehicles and obtaining financing for vehicles.

Several aspects of the present invention will be described more fully hereinafter with reference to various methods and apparatuses.

Some aspects of the invention relate to a mobile apparatus including an image sensor configured to convert an optical image into an electrical signal. The optical image includes an image of a vehicle license plate. The mobile apparatus includes a license plate detector configured to process the electrical signal to recover information from the vehicle license plate image. The mobile apparatus includes an interface configured to transmit the vehicle license plate information to a remote apparatus and receive an insurance quote for a vehicle corresponding to the vehicle license plate in response to the transmission.

Other aspects of the invention relate to a mobile apparatus including an image sensor configured to convert an optical image into an electrical signal. The optical image includes several object images. One of the object images includes a vehicle license plate image. The mobile apparatus includes a license plate detector configured to process the electrical signal to recover information from the vehicle license plate image from a portion of the electrical signal corresponding to said one of the object images. The mobile apparatus includes an interface configured to transmit the vehicle license plate information to a remote apparatus and receive an insurance quote for a vehicle corresponding to the vehicle license plate in response to the transmission.

Other aspects of the invention relate to a mobile apparatus including an image sensor configured to convert an optical image into an electrical signal. The mobile apparatus includes a display. The mobile apparatus includes a rendering module configured to render the optical image to the display. The mobile apparatus includes an image filter configured to apply one or more filter parameters to the electrical signal based on at least one of color temperature of the image ambient light and motion of the apparatus. The mobile apparatus includes a license plate detector configured to process the electrical signal to recover information from the vehicle license plate image. The rendering module is further configured to overlay a detection indicator on the displayed image to assist the user position of the apparatus with respect to the optical image in response to a signal from the image filter. The rendering module is further configured to provide an alert to the display when the license plate detector fails to recover the vehicle license plate information. The mobile apparatus includes an interface configured to transmit the vehicle license plate information to a remote apparatus and receive an insurance quote for a vehicle corresponding to the vehicle license plate in response to the transmission.

Other aspects of the invention relate to a computer program product for a mobile apparatus having an image sensor configured to convert an optical image into an electrical signal. The optical image includes several object images. One of the object images includes an image of a vehicle license plate. The computer program product includes a machine readable medium including code to process the electrical signal to select said one of the object images. The machine readable medium includes code to process a portion of the electrical signal corresponding to the selected said one of the object images to recover information from the vehicle license plate image. The machine readable medium includes code to transmit the vehicle license plate information to a remote apparatus. The machine readable medium includes code to receive an insurance quote for a vehicle corresponding to the vehicle license plate in response to the transmission.

Other aspects of the invention relate to a mobile apparatus including an image sensor configured to convert an optical image into an electrical signal. The optical image includes an image of a vehicle license plate. The mobile apparatus includes a timing circuit configured to sample the electrical signal at a frame rate. The mobile apparatus includes a license plate detector configured to process the sampled electrical signal to recover information from the vehicle license plate image. The mobile apparatus includes an interface configured to transmit the vehicle license plate information to a remote apparatus and receive an insurance quote for a vehicle corresponding to the vehicle license plate in response to the transmission.

It is understood that other aspects of methods and apparatuses will become readily apparent to those skilled in the art from the following detailed description wherein various aspects of apparatuses and methods are shown and described by way of illustration. As understood by one of ordinary skill in the art these aspects may be implemented in other and different forms and its several details are capable of modification in various other respects. Accordingly the drawings and detailed description are to be regarded as illustrative in nature and not as restrictive.

The detailed description set forth below in connection with the appended drawings is intended as a description of various exemplary embodiments of the present invention and is not intended to represent the only embodiments in which the present invention may be practiced. The detailed description includes specific details for the purpose of providing a thorough understanding of the present invention. However it will be apparent to those skilled in the art that the present invention may be practiced without these specific details. In some instances well known structures and components are shown in block diagram form in order to avoid obscuring the concepts of the present invention. Acronyms and other descriptive terminology may be used merely for convenience and clarity and are not intended to limit the scope of the invention.

The word exemplary or embodiment is used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any embodiment described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other embodiments. Likewise the term embodiment of an apparatus method or article of manufacture does not require that all embodiments of the invention include the described components structure features functionality processes advantages benefits or modes of operation.

It will be further understood that the terms comprises and or comprising when used in this specification specify the presence of stated features steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps operations elements components and or groups thereof. The term and or includes any and all combinations of one or more of the associated listed items.

Unless otherwise defined all terms including technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meaning as commonly understood by a person having ordinary skill in the art to which this invention belongs. It will be further understood that terms such as those defined in commonly used dictionaries should be interpreted as having a meaning that is consistent with their meaning in the context of the relevant art and the present disclosure and will not be interpreted in an idealized or overly formal sense unless expressly so defined herein.

In the following detailed description various aspects of the present invention will be presented in the context of apparatuses and methods for recovering vehicle license plate information from an image. However as those skilled in the art will appreciate these aspects may be extended to recovering other information from an image. Accordingly any reference to an apparatus or method for recovering vehicle license plate information is intended only to illustrate the various aspects of the present invention with the understanding that such aspects may have a wide range of applications.

In an exemplary embodiment of the apparatus a customized application is installed on the apparatus . The customized application may interface with the apparatus image capture device to capture an optical image convert the optical image to an electrical signal process the electrical signal to detect the presence of a license plate image and derive license plate information from a portion of the electrical signal that is associated with the license plate image. The license plate information may be transmitted wirelessly to a server for further processing or decoding such as optical character recognition OCR of the license plate image. Alternatively the OCR process may be carried out on the mobile apparatus .

As shown in the apparatus may receive an interaction from the user to capture an optical image that includes an object image of the license plate . The interaction may occur at the touch screen . The touch screen shows an exemplary rendering of the optical image including a rendering of the license plate image that may be captured by the apparatus . As illustrated on the touch screen the image of the license plate may include a number and a state. OCR software may be used to convert the state and number portions of the license plate image to text which may be stored as strings to be used later for various functions. Once a suitable image including a license plate image is captured by the apparatus the license plate data may be recovered and transmitted to a server for further processing. Additionally the server and or the apparatus application may provide error checking capability to ensure that the captured image is clear enough to accurately detect and decode a license plate image. When the server or apparatus determines that a suitable image has not been captured the apparatus may display an alert in the display area which may guide the user to acquiring a suitable image.

Alternatively some aspects of the apparatus may provide the capability to bypass the image capture process to instead provide a user interface with text fields. For example the user interface may provide text fields that allow for entry of the license plate number and state. The entered information may be provided as text strings to the license plate detection apparatus without going through the detection process discussed above.

A license plate image recovered from the image may be transmitted over the internet to the server where it is processed for the purpose of detecting whether the license plate image is suitable for deriving license plate data and or for performing OCR on the license plate image to derive license plate information such as the state of origin and the license plate number.

Once the license plate image or image file is transmitted to the server the apparatus may receive and display a confirmation message for confirming that the derived license plate information e.g. state and license plate number is correct. In some aspects of the apparatus the apparatus may also display information about the vehicle to help the user determine whether the derived license plate information is correct. This may be useful in cases such as when the apparatus captures a license plate image of a moving vehicle. The vehicle license plate may no longer be in eyesight. However it may be possible to determine with some degree of accuracy whether the derived license plate information is correct based on the vehicle information that is displayed on the mobile apparatus.

In the first stage the apparatus may have transmitted a license plate image to the server for further processing. Such processing will be described in the foregoing figures. The apparatus may display the license plate information and the licensed driver information . The licensed driver information may be captured from a second image of a driver s license. For instance after receiving the license plate image the apparatus may request that the user provide an image of a driver s license. The apparatus may recognize information from the driver s license such as state number name and address. Such information may be used in the insurance underwriting process. Additionally the recognized information may be converted to text by OCR software. In this exemplary illustration the name recognized from the driver s license may be displayed in the display area as licensed driver information for verification by the user. Once the user has verified that the information in the display area matches up with the vehicle associated with the license plate image and driver s license information the apparatus may receive a selection of the selectable UI object . However in some aspects of the apparatus if the displayed information is not accurate the apparatus may receive a selection of the selectable UI object . In such aspects the apparatus may prompt the user to retake the license plate image and or the driver s license image. In some embodiments of the apparatus each selectable UI object may be a selectable button that is enabled when a user performs a gestural interaction with the touch screen of the apparatus .

In the second stage the apparatus may have received a selection of the selectable UI object . In response the display area may present the vehicle description the representative vehicle image the insurance quote and the selectable UI objects and . The insurance quote may be based on default coverage information. However in some aspects of the apparatus the coverage information may be input by the user before receiving the quote. For instance the display area may display several slidable objects for setting the various coverage criteria such as the amount of comprehensive coverage collision coverage uninsured motorist coverage and or deductibles. The apparatus may then transmit this information to the server which then returns the insurance quote based on the coverage information provided by the user.

Additionally the apparatus may have the capability of receiving several different insurance quotes from several different agencies. Insurance quote may only represent the best price receive by the apparatus. However if the user wishes to see all of the insurance quotes the apparatus may receive a selection of the selectable UI object . Upon selection of the selectable UI object a list of insurance quotes and providers may be displayed in the display area . The user may have the option to select from the available listed quotes in lieu of the displayed insurance quote .

Additionally the user may wish the adjust the coverage information based on the insurance quote . For instance the insurance quote may inspire the user to request more or less coverage. In such instances the apparatus may receive a selection of the selectable UI object . Upon receiving a selection of the selectable UI object the display area may display a dialog or the slidable objects discussed above which may receive interaction from the user to adjust the insurance coverage. Upon setting the new insurance coverage the apparatus may then display a new insurance quote . If the insurance quote is agreeable to the user then the user may be prompted to enter any other additional information to finalize the insurance underwriting process and obtain an insurance policy. Although not shown the display area may prompt the user by a selectable UI object or any other suitable means to accept the insurance quote . Once accepted the insurance policy may be generated from information obtained based on the license plate image and the driver s license image.

Providing the interface described in provides an easy and efficient way for buyers of vehicles to make informed decisions. The interface provides buyers with accurate information so that the buyer can feel comfortable with the cost of insuring a particular vehicle. Additionally the information is gathered by simply capturing an image of a vehicle license plate and driver s license and providing no or minimal further interaction. Thus the interface provides a trustworthy source for accurate information and an efficient way to obtain insurance coverage with minimal effort.

As shown the process captures at an optical image that includes a vehicle license plate image. As will be discussing in the following figure some aspects of the apparatus may process a video. A frame may then be extracted and converted to an image file.

At the process converts the optical image into an electrical signal. The process then processes at the electrical signal to recover license plate information. The process determines at whether the license plate information was successfully recovered. When the license plate information was successfully recovered the process transmits at the license plate information to a remote server. The process then receives at an insurance quote for a vehicle corresponding to the vehicle license plate. The process then ends. In some aspects of the process several different insurance quotes may be received. Such quotes may be available for display at the mobile apparatus for the user of the mobile apparatus to interact with and view.

Returning to when the process determines that the license plate information was not successfully recovered the process displays at an alert that the license plate information was not recovered. In some aspects of the process a message guiding the user to position the mobile apparatus to achieve greater chances of recovering the license plate information may be provided with the displayed alert. The process then ends. However in some aspects of the process rather than end the process may optionally return to capture at another optical image and repeat the entire process .

As shown the process converts at an optical image into an electrical signal for sampling the electrical signal at n frames second fps . In some aspects of the process the process may sample the electrical signal at intervals such as 24 fps or any other suitable interval for capturing video according to the apparatus capabilities. Each sample of the electrical signal represents a frame of a video image presented on a display. The process samples at a first portion of the electrical signal representing a first frame of the video image presented on the display. The process then determines at whether any object image s are detected within the frame. At least one of the detected object image s may comprise a license plate image. When the process determines that at least object image exists within the frame the process assigns at a score based on the detected object image. The score may be based on the likelihood that at least one of the object images is a license plate image and is discussed in greater detail below with respect to . The score may be applied to each object image and or aggregated for each object image detected in the frame. The process may then store at the score and associated object image and frame information in a data structure. In some aspects of the process the process may store the aggregated object image score and or the process may store the highest scoring object image in the frame.

When the process determines at that no object image exists within the frame or after the process stores the score at the process displays feedback to a user based on the object image detected or not detected . For instance when no object image is detected in the frame the process may display a message guiding the user on how to collect a better optical image. However when at least one object image is detected in the frame the process may provide feedback by overlaying rectangles around the detected object image s . Alternatively or conjunctively the process may overlay a rectangle that provides a visual cue such as a distinct color indicating which object image is determined to most likely be a license plate image or has a higher score than other object images within the frame. In some aspects the visual cue may be provided when a particular object image receives a score above a threshold value.

The process optionally determines at whether user input has been received to stop the video. Such user input may include a gestural interaction with the mobile apparatus which deactivates the camera shutter on the mobile apparatus. When the process determines at that user input to stop the video capture is received the process selects at the highest scoring frame according to the stored frame information. When the process determines at that user input to stop the video capture has not been received the process determines at whether to sample additional portions of the electrical signal. In some aspects of the process such a determination may be based on a predetermined number of samples. For instance the mobile apparatus may have a built in and or configurable setting for the number of samples to process before a best frame is selected. In other aspects of the process such a determination may be based on achieving a score for a frame or object image in a frame that is above a predetermined threshold value. In such aspects the frame or frame comprising the object image that is above the threshold score will be selected at . When process determines that there are more portions of the electrical signal to be sampled the process samples at the next portion of the electrical signal representing the next frame of the video image presented on the display. The process then returns to detect at object image s within the next frame. In some aspects of the process the process may receive user input to stop the video capture at any point while process is running. Specifically the process is not confined to receiving user input to halt video capture after the feedback is displayed at the user input may be received at anytime while the process is running. In such aspects if at least one object image has been scored then the process will still select at the highest scoring object image. However if no object images were scored then the process will simply end.

In some aspects of the process the process may optionally use the object image s detected in the previous sample to estimate the locations of the object images in the sample. Using this approach optimizes processing time when the process can determine that the mobile apparatus is relatively stable. For instance the mobile apparatus may concurrently store gyro accelerometer data. The process may then use gyro accelerometer data retrieved from the mobile apparatus to determine whether the mobile apparatus has remained stable and there is a greater likelihood that the object image s will be in similar locations. Thus when the process can determine that the mobile apparatus is relatively stable the processing time for license plate detection may be increased because less of the portion of the electrical signal that represents the video image would need to be searched for the license plate image.

Alternatively or conjunctively the process may not use information about object image s from the previous frame as a predictor. Instead the process may undergo the same detection and scoring process discussed above. Then for each object image that overlaps an object image detected in a previous frame e.g. the object images share similar pixels either by space and or location in the frames the previous frame receives a higher score. Information about the overlapping object image s may be maintained for optimized processing later on. Additionally in some aspects of the apparatus the license plate detection apparatus may maintain a table of matching object image s for the sampled portions of the electrical signal representing frames of video images over time. In such aspects some object image s may exist in one or a few of the frames or some may exist in many or all frames and accordingly with higher scores. In such instances all of the overlapping object images may be processed as discussed in greater detail in the foregoing sections and provided to the server for OCR or identification. This would lead to greater accuracy in actual license plate detection and OCR results.

Returning now to after selecting at the highest scoring frame the process processes at the electrical signal based on the information associated with the selected frame to recover license plate information. The process then determines at whether license plate information was recovered from the electrical signal. When the process determines at that license plate information has been recovered the process transmits at the license plate information to a remote server. The process then receives at an insurance quote for a vehicle corresponding to the vehicle license plate. The process then ends. In some aspects of the process several different insurance quotes may be received that have similar features to the vehicle associated with the license plate information. Such quotes may be displayed at the mobile apparatus for the user of the mobile apparatus to interact with and view.

Returning to when the process determines that license plate information was not detected the process displays at an alert that license plate information cannot be recovered. Such an alert may guide the user to acquiring better video that is more likely to produce a readable license plate image. For instance the alert may guide the user s mobile device position or angle. The process may then return to collect additional video.

The license plate detection apparatus includes an image capture apparatus an imager a keypad a strobe circuit a frame buffer a format converter an image filter a license plate detector a network network interfaces and a gateway a rendering module and a display . The license plate detection apparatus may communicate with a server having OCR Module and an OCR analytics storage . However in some aspects of the apparatus the OCR module and or OCR analytics storage may be part of the mobile apparatus. The license plate detection apparatus illustrated in generates license plate information which may be processed by various modules communicatively coupled to the gateway. The processed information may then be used by the insurance quote generator . The insurance quote generator may be used to obtain an insurance quote from a license plate image. In some aspects of the apparatus the insurance quote generator may be tied to an insurance underwriting service accessible via an API. In such aspects when a device receives all the requisite criteria for obtaining insurance for a vehicle based on a license plate image the insurance quote generator may communicate with the insurance underwriting service to underwrite the user for insurance in near real time based on the license plate image.

As shown the image capture apparatus communicates an optical image to the imager . The image capture apparatus may comprise a camera lens and or a camera that is built into a mobile apparatus. The imager may comprise a CMOS array NMOS CCD or any other suitable image sensor that converts an optical image into an electrical signal e.g. raw image data . The electrical signal comprises pixel data associated with the captured image. The amount of pixel data is dependent on the resolution of the captured image. The pixel data is stored as numerical values associated with each pixel and the numerical values indicate characteristics of the pixel such as color and brightness. Thus the electrical signal comprises a stream of raw data describing the exact details of each pixel derived from the optical image. During the image capture process the imager may produce a digital view as seen through the image capture apparatus for rendering at the display .

In some aspects of the apparatus the image capture apparatus may be configured to capture video. In such aspects a timing circuit such as the strobe circuit may communicate with the imager . The strobe circuit may sample or clock the imager to produce a sampled electrical signal at some periodicity such as 24 30 fps. The sampled electrical signal may be representative of a frame of video presented on the display . The electrical signal may be provided to the frame buffer . However the imager may communicate the electrical signal directly to the format converter when a single optical image is captured. When video is captured the frame buffer may communicate the sample of the electrical signal representative of the frame of video from the frame buffer to the format converter . However in some aspects of the apparatus the frame buffer may be bypassed such that the sampled electrical signal is communicated directly to the format converter .

The format converter generates or compresses the raw image pixel data provided in the electrical signal to a standard space efficient image format. However in some aspects of the apparatus the frame buffer and format converter may be reversed such that the sampled electrical signals are converted to a compressed standard video format before buffering. The standard image and or video format can be read by the following modules of the license plate detection apparatus. However the following description will assume that the sampled electrical signals are buffered before any such format conversion. The format converter will be described in greater detail in .

The format converter communicates the standard image file or image to the image filter . The image filter performs a variety of operations on the image to provide the optimal conditions to detect a license plate image within the image. Such operations will be described in greater detail in . However if the image filter determines that the image is too distorted noisy or otherwise in a condition that is unreadable to the point that any filtering of the image will not result in a viable image for plate detection the image filter will signal to the rendering module to display an alert on the display that the image is not readable. Alternatively once the image is filtered ideally the image should be in a state that is optimal for accurate license plate detection. Therefore the image filter will then communicate the filtered image to the license plate detector .

The plate detector is an integral module of license plate detection apparatus. The plate detector will process the image to detect the presence of a license plate image by implementing several processes which will be described in greater detail in . The license plate detector may generate overlays such as rectangular boxes around object images it detects as potential or candidate license plate images. The overlays may be transmitted as signals from the license plate detector to the rendering module . The rendering module may instruct the display to display the overlays over the image received from the imager so that the user of the mobile apparatus can receive visual guidance relating to what object images the license plate detection apparatus detects as candidate license plate images. Such information is useful in guiding the user to capture optical images that include the license plate image and provide a higher likelihood of accurate license plate information recovery.

The license plate detector will determine which portion of the image or electrical signal is most likely a license plate image. The license plate detector will then transmit only the license plate image portion of the image to the network by way of the network interface . Alternatively a user may skip the entire image conversion process and using the keypad key in the license plate information which is then transmitted over the network by way of the network interface . The network then transmits the license plate image information or image file or keyed information to the network interface which transmits signals to the gateway .

The gateway may transmit the license plate image data to the OCR module . The OCR module derives the license plate information such as state and number information from the license plate image. The OCR module may use several different third party and or proprietary OCR applications to derive the license plate information. The OCR module may use information retrieved from the OCR analytics storage to determine which OCR application has the greatest likelihood of accuracy in the event that different OCR applications detected different characters. For instance the OCR analytics storage may maintain statistics collected from the user input received at the apparatus described with respect to . The OCR module may then select the license plate information that is statistically most likely to be accurate using information retrieved from the analytics storage . The OCR module may then transmit the license plate information as a text string or strings to the gateway which provides the license plate information to the rendering module through the network . The rendering module may then instruct the display to display the license plate information . The display may then display a message similar to the one described with respect to .

Additionally the license plate information may be transmitted through the gateway and processed by various modules communicatively coupled to the gateway . The gateway may transmit the processed information to the insurance quote generator . The insurance quote generator may communicate with at least third party service by way of an API to receive at least one insurance quote based on the license plate information. The insurance quote may then be transmitted back to the gateway for further processing. Alternatively or in addition to the gateway may transmit the insurance quote to the rendering module through the network . The rendering module may then instruct the display to display the insurance quote along with any other information to assist the user of the mobile apparatus.

In the event that the OCR module or the license plate detector is unable to detect a license plate image or identify any license plate information the OCR module and or the license plate detector will signal an alert to the rendering module which will be rendered on the display .

In some aspects of the apparatus the OCR module may be located on an apparatus separate from an external server. For instance the OCR module may be located on the mobile apparatus similar to the license plate detection apparatus. Additionally in some aspects of the apparatus the format converter image filter and license plate detector may be located on an external server and the electrical signal recovered from the optical image may be transmitted directly to the network for processing by the modules on the external server.

The license plate detection apparatus provide several advantages in that it is not confined to still images. As discussed above buffered or unbuffered video may be used by the license plate detection apparatus to determine the frame with the highest likelihood of having a license plate image. It also enables optical images to be taken while a mobile apparatus is moving and accounts for object images recovered from any angle and or distance. Additionally the license plate detection apparatus also provides the added benefit of alerting the user when a license plate image cannot be accurately detected in addition to guidance relating to how to get a better image that is more likely to produce license plate information. Such guidance may include directional guidance such as adjusting the viewing angle or distance as well as guidance to adjust lighting conditions if possible. Thus the license plate detection apparatus provides a solution to the complicated problem of how to derive license plate information captured from moving object images and from virtually any viewing angle. The license plate information may then be used to derive different information associated with the license plate information such an estimated value for a vehicle.

The format converter may also receive several sampled electrical signals each representing frames of video images such as frame data . The video data frames may be received at the frame analyzer in the format converter . The frame analyzer may perform a number of different functions. For instance the frame analyzer may perform a function of analyzing each frame and discarding any frames that are blurry noisy or generally bad candidates for license plate detection based on some detection process such as the process described in . Those frames that are suitable candidates for license plate detection may be transmitted to the conversion engine and converted to the standard format image similar to how the image was converted.

The image filter includes a filter processor a grayscale filter and a parameters storage . When the image filter receives the formatted image file the filter processor will retrieve parameters from the parameters storage which will assist the filter processor in how to optimally filter the image. For instance if the received image was taken in cloudy conditions the filter processor may adjust the white balance of the image based on the parameters retrieved from the parameters storage . If the image was taken in the dark the filter processor may use a de noise function based on the parameters retrieved from the parameters storage to remove excess noise from the image. In some aspects of the apparatus the filter processor also has the ability to learn based on the success of previously derived license plate images what parameters work best or better in different conditions such as those conditions described above. In such aspects the filter processor may take the learned data and update the parameters in the parameters storage for future use.

The filter processor also has logic to determine if an image will be readable by the license plate detector . When the filter processor determines that the image will not be readable by the license plate detector the filter processor may signal an alert to the rendering module . However when the filter processor determines that sufficient filtering will generate a readable image for reliable license plate detection the filter processor communicates the image post filtering to the grayscale filter .

Additionally in some aspects of the apparatus the image filter may receive several images in rapid succession. Such instances may be frames of a video that may be captured while a mobile apparatus is moving. In such instances the filter processor may continuously adjust the filter parameters to account for each video frame it receives. The same alerts may be signaled in real time in the event that a video frame is deemed unreadable by the filter processor .

The grayscale filter will convert the received image file to grayscale. More specifically the grayscale filter will convert the pixel values for each pixel in the received image file to new values that correspond to appropriate grayscale levels. In some aspects of the filter the pixel values may be between 0 and 255 e.g. 256 values or 2values . In other aspects of the filter the pixel values may be between 0 and any other value that is a power of 2 minus 1 such as etc. The image is converted to grayscale to simplify and or speed up the license plate detection process. For instance by reducing the number of colors in the image which could be in the millions to shades of gray the license plate image search time may be reduced.

In the grayscale image regions with higher intensity values e.g. brighter regions of the image will appear brighter than regions of the image with lower intensity values. The grayscale filter ultimately produces the filtered image . However one skilled in the art should recognize that the ordering of the modules is not confined to the order illustrated in . Rather the image filter may first convert the image to grayscale using the grayscale filter and then filter the grayscale image at the filter processor . The filter processor then outputs the filtered image . Additionally it should be noted that the image filter and the format converter may be interchangeable. Specifically the order in which this image is processed by these two modules may be swapped in some aspects of the apparatus.

The license plate detector receives the filtered image at the object detector . As discussed above the filtered image has been converted to a grayscale image. The object detector may use a mathematical method such as a Maximal Stable Extremal Regions MSER method for detecting regions in a digital image that differ in properties such as brightness or color compared to areas surrounding those regions. Simply stated the detected regions of the digital image have some properties that are constant or vary within a pre described range of values all the points or pixels in the region can be considered in some sense to be similar to each other. This method of object detection may provide greater accuracy in the license plate detection process than other processes such as edge and or corner detection. However in some instances the object detector may use edge and or corner detection methods to detect object images in an image that could be candidate license plate images.

Typically the object images detected by the object detector will have a uniform intensity throughout each adjacent pixel. Those adjacent pixels with a different intensity would be considered background rather than part of the object image. In order to determine the object images and background regions of the filtered image the object detector will construct a process of applying several thresholds to the image. Grayscale images may have intensity values between 0 and 255 0 being black and 255 being white. However in some aspects of the apparatus these values may be reversed with 0 being white and 255 being black. An initial threshold is set to be somewhere between 0 and 255. Variations in the object images are measured over a pre determined range of threshold values. A delta parameter indicates through how many different gray levels a region needs to be stable to be considered a potential detected object image. The object images within the image that remain unchanged or have little variation over the applied delta thresholds are selected as likely candidate license plate images. In some aspects of the detector small variations in the object image may be acceptable. The acceptable level of variations in an object image may be programmatically set for successful object image detection. Conversely or conjunctively the number of pixels or area of the image that must be stable for object image detection may also be defined. For instance a stable region that has less than a threshold number of pixels would not be selected as an object image while a stable region with at least the threshold number of pixels would be selected as an object image. The number of pixels may be determined based on known values relating to the expected pixel size of a license plate image or any other suitable calculation such as a height to width ratio.

In addition the object detector may recognize certain pre determined textures in an image as well as the presence of informative features that provide a greater likelihood that the detected object image may be a license plate image. Such textures may be recognized by using local binary patterns LBP cascade classifiers. LBP is especially useful in real time image processing settings such as when images are being captured as a mobile apparatus moves around an area. Although commonly used in the art for image facial recognition LBP cascade classifiers may be modified such that the method is optimized for the detection of candidate license plate images.

In an LBP cascade classification positive samples of an object image are created and stored on the license plate detection apparatus. For instance a sample of a license plate image may be used. In some instances multiple samples may be needed for more accurate object image detection considering that license plates may vary from state to state or country to country. The apparatus will then use the sample object images to train the object detector to recognize license plate images based on the features and textures found in the sample object images. LBP cascade classifiers may be used in addition to the operations discussed above to provide improved detection of candidate license plate images.

Once the object detector has detected at least one object as a candidate license plate image the object detector will pass information relating to the detected object images to the quad processor and or the quad filter . In some aspects of the detector the object images may not be of a uniform shape such as a rectangle or oval. The quad processor will then fit a rectangle around each detected object image based on the object image information provided by the object detector . Rectangles are ideal due to the rectangular nature of license plates. As will be described in the foregoing information about the rectangles may be used to overlay rectangles on object images that are displayed for the user s view on a mobile apparatus.

The rectangle will be sized such that it fits minimally around each object image and all areas of the object image are within the rectangle without more additional background space than is necessary to fit the object image. However due to various factors such as the angle at which the optical image was taken the license plate image may not be perfectly rectangular. Therefore the quad processor will perform a process on each object image using the rectangle to form a quadrilateral from a convex hull formed around each object image.

The quad processor will use an algorithm that fits a quadrilateral as closely as possible to the detected object images in the image. For instance the quad processor will form a convex hull around the object image. A convex hull is a polygon that fits around the detected object image as closely as possible. The convex hull comprises edges and vertices. The convex hull may have several vertices. The quad processor will take the convex hull and break it down to exactly four vertices or points that fit closely to the object image.

Referring back to now that the quad processor has drawn efficient quadrilaterals around each of the detected object images the coordinates of the quadrilaterals are passed to the quad filter and or the region s of interest detector . As discussed above the license plate detection apparatus first overlays rectangles around each detected object image. The quad filter may use the rectangle information rather than the quadrilateral information received from the object detector such as the pixel coordinates of the rectangles in the image and look for rectangles similar in size and that overlap. The quad filter will then discard the smaller rectangle s while maintaining the biggest. If at least two rectangles are of an identical size and overlap the quad filter will use a mechanism to determine which rectangle is more likely to be a full license plate image and discard the less likely image within the other rectangle s . Such mechanisms may involve textures and intensity values as determined by the object detector . In some aspects of the filter rather than searching only rectangles the quad filter may alternatively or additionally search the quadrilateral generated by the quad processor for duplicates and perform a similar discarding process. By filtering out the duplicates only unique object images within the rectangles will remain with the likelihood that at least one of those object images is a license plate image. Thus at this point the license plate detection apparatus will only need to search the areas within the rectangles or quadrilaterals for the license plate image.

The region s of interest detector will then determine which of the object images are actually object images that that have similar proportions e.g. height and width to the proportions that would be expected for a license plate image. For instance typically a license plate is rectangular in shape. However depending on several factors such as the angle that the license plate image was captured the object image may appear more like a parallelogram or trapezoid. However there is a limit to how much skew or keystone trapezoidal shape a license plate image undergoes before it becomes unreadable. Therefore it is necessary to compute a skew factor and or keystone to determine whether the object image may be a readable license plate image. Specifically object images that have a skew factor and or keystone below and or above a threshold value are likely object images that do not have the proportions expected for a license plate image or would likely be unreadable. Since a license plate has an expected proportion a threshold skew factor and or keystone may be set and any detected object image that has a skew factor and or keystone indicating that the object image is not a readable license plate image will be discarded. For instance license plate images with a high skew and or high keystone may be discarded.

In some aspects of the apparatus the skew and keystone thresholds may be determined by digitally distorting known license plate images with varying amounts of pitch and yaw to see where the identification process and or OCR fails. The threshold may also be dependent on the size of the object image or quadrilateral trapezoid. Thus quadrilaterals or trapezoids must cover enough pixel space to be identified and read by the OCR software. Those that do not have a large enough pixel space skew factors that are too high and or keystones that are too high would then be discarded as either being unlikely candidates for license plate images or unreadable license plate images.

The skew factor is computed by finding the distance between opposing vertices of the quadrilateral and taking the ratio of the shorter distance to the longer distance so that the skew factor is less than or equal to 1. Rectangles and certain parallelograms that are likely candidate license plate images will have a skew factor that is close to 0 while skewed parallelograms will have a high skew factor. Additionally trapezoids that are likely candidate license plate images will have a keystone that is close to 0 while trapezoids that are unlikely candidate license plate images will have a high keystone. Therefore object images with a high skew factor are discarded while the parallelograms with a lower skew factor and trapezoids with a lower keystone are maintained. In some aspects of the apparatus a threshold skew and a threshold keystone may be defined. In such aspects parallelograms having a skew factor below the threshold are maintained while those above the threshold are discarded. Similarly in such aspects trapezoids having a keystone below the threshold are maintained while those above the threshold are discarded. When the value is equal to the threshold the parallelogram or trapezoid may be maintained or discarded depending on the design of the apparatus.

The remaining parallelograms and trapezoids are then dewarped. The dewarping process is particularly important for the trapezoids because it is used to convert the trapezoid into a rectangular image. The dewarping process uses the four vertices of the quadrilateral and the 4 vertices of an un rotated rectangle with an aspect ratio of 2 1 width height or any other suitable license plate aspect ratio to computer a perspective transform. The aspect ratio may be pixel width pixel height of the image. The perspective transform is applied on the region around the quadrilateral and the 2 1 aspect ratio object image is cropped out. The cropped object image or patch is an object image comprising a candidate license plate image.

The patch is then provided to the patch processor which will search for alpha numeric characters in the patch find new object images within the patch fit rectangles around those object images and compute a score from the fit rectangles. The score may be based on a virtual line that is drawn across the detected object images. If a line exists that has a minimal slope the object images on that line may receive a score that indicates the object image is highly likely to be a license plate image. If no line with a minimal slope is detected then an alert may be returned to the rendering module that a license plate image was not detected in the image. Scores may be calculated for several different patches from the same image and it follows that more than one license plate image may be detected in the same image. Once the presence of a license plate image is detected the license plate information may be transmitted to a server for OCR and further processing. In some aspects of the apparatus the license plate information is an image file comprising the license plate image. Additionally the process for scoring the patch will be described in more detail with respect to .

The overlay processor receives information about the detected object images from the license plate detector . As discussed above such information may include coordinates of detected object images and rectangles determined to fit around those object images. The rectangle information is then provided to the detection failure engine which will determine that object images have been detected by the license plate detector . The detection failure engine may then forward the information about the rectangles to the image renderer which will provide rendering instructions to the display for how and where to display the rectangles around the image received from the imager . Such information my include pixel coordinates associated with the size and location of the rectangle and color information. For instance if the license plate detector determines that a detected object image is more likely to be an actual license plate image than the other detected object images the rendering module may instruct the display to display the rectangle around the more likely object image in a way that is visually distinct from other rectangles. For instance the rectangle around the object image more likely to be a license plate image may be displayed in a different color than the other rectangles in the display.

However in some instances the license plate detector may not detect any object images. In such instances the overlay processor will not forward any rectangle information to the detection failure engine . The detection failure engine will then determine there has been an object image detection failure and signal an alert to the image renderer . The image renderer will then communicate the display rendering instructions for the alert to the display . The license plate detection alerts have been described in greater detail above.

Additionally the image filter may provide information to the image renderer indicating an alert that the captured image cannot be processed for some reason such as darkness noise blur or any other reason that may cause the image to be otherwise unreadable. The alert information from the image filter is provided to the image renderer which then provides the rendering display instructions to the display indicating how the alert will be displayed. The image filter alerts have been discussed in detail above.

The following provide exemplary illustrations and processes detailing the functionality of the license plate detection module . are devised to illustrate how the license plate detection apparatus goes from an optical image comprising many object images to detecting a license plate image among the object images.

As illustrated the mobile apparatus has activated the image capture functionality of the mobile apparatus . The image capture functionality may be an application that controls a camera lens and imager built into the apparatus that is capable of taking digital images. In some aspects of the apparatus the image capture functionality may be activated by enabling an application which activates the license plate detection apparatus capabilities described in . In this example the mobile apparatus may be capturing a still image several images in burst mode or video in real time for processing by the license plate detection apparatus. For instance the vehicle may be moving while the image capture process occurs and or the mobile apparatus may not be in a stationary position. In such instances the license plate detection apparatus may determine the best video frame taken from the video.

As shown in exploded view the object detector of the license plate detection apparatus has detected several object images as well as a candidate license plate image . As shown the rendering module has used information communicated from the license plate detector to overlay rectangles around detected object images including the candidate license plate image . The rendering module has also overlaid rectangles that differ in appearance around object images that are less likely to be license plate images. For instance rectangles appear as dashed lines while rectangle appears as a solid line. However as those skilled in the art will appreciate the visual appearance of the rectangles is not limited to only those illustrated in exploded view . In fact the visual appearance of the rectangles may differ by color texture thickness or any other suitable way of indicating to a user that at least one rectangle is overlaid around an object image that is more likely to be a license plate image than the other object images in which rectangles are overlaid.

Exploded view also illustrates overlapping rectangles . As discussed above the quad filter of the license plate detector may recognize the overlapping rectangles and discard some of the rectangles and detected object images within those discarded rectangles as appropriate.

As is also illustrated by the license plate detection apparatus has detected the presence of a candidate license plate image in the image. As a result the mobile apparatus will transmit the license plate image data associated with the license plate image over the internet to the server for further processing. Such further processing may include OCR and using the license plate information derived from the OCR process to perform a number of different tasks that may be transmitted back to the mobile apparatus for rendering on the display area . Alternatively in some aspects of the apparatus the OCR capability may be located on the mobile apparatus itself. In such aspects the mobile apparatus may wirelessly transmit the license plate information such as state and number data rather than information about the license plate image itself.

As shown the process converts at the captured image to grayscale. As discussed above converting the image to grayscale makes for greater efficiency in distinguishing object images from background according to the level of contrast between adjacent pixels. Several filtering processes may also be performed on the image during the grayscale conversion process. The process then detects at object image s from the grayscale image. Such object images may be the object images and as illustrated in . The process processes at a first object image. The processing of object images will be described in greater detail in the foregoing description.

At the process determines whether an object image fits the criteria for a license plate image. When the object image fits the criteria for a license plate image the process transmits at the license plate image or image data to a server such as the server . In some aspects of the process an object image fits the criteria for a license plate when a score of the object image is above a threshold value. Such a score may be determined by a process which will be discussed in the foregoing description. The process then determines at whether there are more object images detected in the image and or whether the object image being processed does not exceed a threshold score.

When the process determines at that an object image does not fit the criteria for a license plate image the process does not transmit any data and determines at whether more object images were detected in the image and or whether the object image being processed did not exceed a threshold score. When the process determines that more object images were detected in the image and or the object image being processed did not exceed a threshold score the process processes at the next object image. The process then returns to to determine if the object image fits the criteria of a license plate image.

When the process determines at that no more object images were detected in the image and or the object image being processed exceeds a threshold score the process determines at whether at least one license plate image was detected in the process . When a license plate image was detected the process ends. When a license plate image was not detected an alert is generated at and the rendering module sends instructions to display a detection failure message at the display . In some aspects of the process the detection failure alert may provide guidance to the user for capturing a better image. For instance the alert may guide the user to move the mobile apparatus in a particular direction such as up or down and or adjust the tilt of the mobile apparatus. Other alerts may guide the user to find a location with better lighting or any other suitable message that may assist the user such that the license plate detection apparatus has a greater likelihood of detecting at least one license plate image in an image.

The process may be performed in real time. For instance the process may be performed successively as more images are captured either by capturing several frames of video as the mobile apparatus or object images in the scene move and or are tracked or by using an image capture device s burst mode. The process provides the advantage of being able to detect and read a license plate image in an image at virtually any viewing angle and under a variety of ambient conditions. Additionally the criteria for determining a license plate image is determined based on the operations performed by the license plate detector. These operations will be further illustrated in the following figures as well.

Once the quadrilateral is determined to have a low skew or a skew below a threshold value or the trapezoid has been determined to have a low keystone or a keystone below a threshold value the region s of interest detector can dewarp the image to move one step closer to confirming the presence of a license plate image in the image and to also generate patch that is easily read by OCR software. In some aspects of the apparatus the patch is the license plate image that has been cropped out of the image.

As shown the first stage illustrates the license plate image in a trapezoidal shape similar to the shape of the quadrilateral illustrated in . The second stage illustrates the license plate image after the dewarping process has been performed. As shown license plate image has undergone a perspective transform and rotation. The license plate image as shown in the second stage is now in a readable rectangular shape. In some aspects of the dewarping process the license plate image may also undergo corrections if the license plate image is skewed or may scale the license plate image to a suitable size.

The ability to accurately dewarp quadrilaterals and especially the quadrilaterals that are license plate images taken at any angle is an integral piece of the license plate detection apparatus. The dewarping capability enables a user to capture an image of a license plate at a variety of different angles and distances. For instance the image may be taken with any mobile apparatus at virtually any height direction and or distance. Additionally it provides the added benefit of being able to capture a moving image from any position. Once the license plate image has been dewarped the region s of interest detector will crop the rectangular license plate image to generate a patch. The patch will be used for further confirmation that the license plate image is in fact an image of a license plate.

As shown the process detects at at least one object image similar to the object image detection performed by process . The following describes in greater detail the process of processing at the image.

For instance the process then fits at a rectangle to each detected object image in order to reduce the search space to the detected object images. The information associated with the rectangle may also be used as an overlay to indicate to users of the license plate detection apparatus the location s of the detected object image s . The process then uses the rectangles to form at a convex hull around each object image. The convex hull as discussed above is a polygon of several vertices and edges that fits closely around an object image without having any edges that overlap the object image.

At the process compresses the convex hull to a quadrilateral that closely fits around the detected object image. The process of compressing the convex hull into a quadrilateral was discussed in detail with respect to . The process then filters at duplicate rectangles and or quadrilaterals. In some aspects of the process rectangles or quadrilaterals that are similar in size and overlap may be discarded based on some set criteria. For example the smaller rectangle and or quadrilateral may be discarded.

The process calculates at a skew factor. The process then dewarps at the quadrilateral. The process then crops at the object image within the quadrilateral which becomes the patch. The patch will be used for further processing as discussed below. In some aspects of the process the object image is cropped at a particular ratio that is common for license plates of a particular region or type. For instance the process may crop out a 2 1 aspect ratio patch of the image which is likely to contain the license plate image. Once the quadrilateral is cropped the process then ends.

As shown in the patch rectangles are fit around detected object images within the patch. In some aspects of the apparatus object images may be detected using the MSER object detection method. Conjunctively or conversely some aspects of the apparatus may use edge and or corner detection methods to detect the object images. In this case the detected object images are alpha numeric characters and as well as graphic . After detecting the alpha numeric characters and as well as graphic a stroke width transform SWT may be performed to partition the detected object images into those that are likely from an alpha numeric character and those that are not. For instance the SWT may try to capture the only alpha numeric effective features and use certain geometric signatures of alpha numeric characters to filter out non alpha numeric areas resulting in more reliable text regions. In such instances the SWT transform may partition the alphanumeric characters and from the graphic . Thus only those object images that are determined to likely be alpha numeric characters such as alphanumeric characters and are later used in a scoring process to be discussed below. In some aspects of the apparatus some object images other than alpha numeric characters may pass through the SWT partitioning. Thus further processing may be necessary to filter out the object images that are not alpha numeric characters and also to determine whether the alpha numeric characters in the license plate image fit the characteristics common for a license plate images.

Following the partitioning of alpha numeric characters from non alpha numeric characters a line is fit to the center of the rectangle pair for each pair of rectangles. For instance a sloped line is shown for the D and object image pair. The distance of all other rectangles to the lines and are accumulated and the pair with the smallest summed distance is used as a text baseline. For instance the zero slope line has the smallest summed distance of the rectangles to the line . Some aspects of the apparatus may implement a scoring process to determine the presence of a license plate image. For instance some aspects of the scoring process may determine a score for the determined alpha numeric characters on the zero slope line . The score may increase when the rectangle around the alpha numeric character is not rotated beyond a threshold amount. The score may decrease if the detected alpha numeric character is too solid. In some aspects of the scoring process solidity may be defined as the character area rectangle area. When the calculated area is over a threshold amount then the detected object image may be deemed too solid and the score decreases.

In other aspects of the scoring process for each rectangle in the patch the patch score increases by some scoring value if the center of the rectangle is within a particular distance of the baseline line where X is the shorter of the rectangle height and width. For instance if the particular distance were to be defined as the shorter of the rectangle height and width and if the scoring value is set at 1 the patch score value of the patch would be 7 because the rectangles around the characters 1DDQ976 are within a shorter distance than the width of the rectangle. Furthermore the zero slope of the line between the alpha numeric characters further confirm that this patch is likely a license plate image since typically license plates have a string of characters along a same line. Sloped lines are therefore unlikely to provide any indication that the patch is a license plate image because the distance between characters is too great and the slope is indicative of a low likelihood of a license plate image. Accordingly in some aspects of the process sloped lines are discarded in the process.

In some aspects of the process when the patch has a score above a threshold value the patch is determined to be a license plate image and the license plate detection is complete. The license plate image data is then transmitted to a server for further processing and for use in other functions computed by the server the results of which are provided to the license plate detection apparatus.

As shown the process processes at only substantially rectangular portion s of the patch to locate alpha numeric characters. The process fits at rectangles around the located alpha numeric characters and computes scores based on the distances between rectangle pairs as discussed above with respect to . The process selects at the patch with the best score to recognize as a license plate image. Alternatively or conjunctively the process may select all patches that have a score above a threshold level to be deemed as license plate images. In such instances multiple patches or instances of license plate information would be transmitted to the server for further processing.

As shown the data flow begins with the license plate image . The VIN is the recovered from the license plate image . Then the vehicle configuration is recovered from the VIN . Based on the vehicle configuration an insurance quote may be generated for a vehicle based on the license plate image. However this quote may be a simple estimate or include a range of value without incorporating the optional information .

Optional information may be concurrently or consecutively processed by the apparatus. As shown the data flow for the optional information begins with the driver s license image . The apparatus may prompt a user to capture a driver s license image before or after capturing the license plate image. The driver s license information is the recovered from the driver s license image. Such information may be recovered by using OCR software similar to the OCR software used to recover the license plate information. The recovered driver s license information may include information such as state number name address date of birth and any other pertinent information that may assist in providing the insurance quote as well as underwriting the requestor for insurance if the requestor is the owner of the vehicle. The driver s license information is then transmitted to the validation module . The validation module determines whether the driver s license information matches the owner information associated with the VIN. If the information does not match the validation module transmits the alert . Such an alert may be displayed at a mobile apparatus. However if the validation module determines that the driver s license information and vehicle ownership information match then the driver s license information is transmitted along with the vehicle information to determine a more accurate insurance quote that incorporates all of the requisite driver information. At this point if the requestor is happy with the insurance quote the requestor may interact with the mobile apparatus to initiate the generation of an insurance policy from the mobile apparatus.

In some aspects of the apparatus once collected the driver s license information may be maintained on the server for processing more accurate insurance quotes consistently. Thus the described data flow provides an efficient way to obtain an insurance estimate be underwritten for insurance and efficiently receive an insurance policy when the driver s license information matches the ownership information associated with the vehicle associated with the license plate image. It follows that an insurance quote can be generated by simply capturing an image of a license plate and a more accurate insurance quote may be generated by simply capturing the license plate image and the driver s license image thereby streamlining the insurance underwriting process.

In order to process the license plate information to provide an insurance quote for a vehicle the gateway may also communicate with third party services that provide information such as vehicle configuration and vehicle identification numbers VIN s. Additionally the gateway may also communicate with various insurance underwriting services and services capable of validating vehicle ownership as part of the insurance approval process. As shown the gateway may communicate directly with at least one third party processing service if such services are located on the same network as the gateway . Alternatively the gateway may communicate with at least one of the third party processing services over the WAN e.g. the internet .

In some aspects of the service the process for providing an insurance quote may incorporate the location with the vehicle and or device. In such aspects the service may optionally use location information acquired through a GPS satellite . The apparatuses and may be configured to use a GPS service and provide location information to the gateway using the connections discussed above. The provided location information may be used by the vehicle to adjust the requisite criteria for obtaining an insurance quote based on geographic region provided GPS information. For instance certain locations may be known as higher risk areas. Such locations may use the GPS information to generate a higher insurance quote than may be provided for a different location. However the location may also be configurable by user input of a home address received at one of the apparatuses or . Such user input may include deriving an address from a driver s license as discussed in the previous figure. Thus the service described in provides greater granularity and accuracy obtaining an insurance quote which may then be used to underwrite a user for insurance in near real time.

As shown the client apparatus may use a network interface to transmit at least one license plate image recovered from an optical image taken by the client apparatus . Additionally geographic information may also be transmitted from the client apparatus over the network interface . The client apparatus may include an installed application providing instructions for how to communicate with the gateway through the network interface . In this example the network interface provides license plate image information or text input of a license plate to the gateway as well as geographic information to the gateway . For instance as discussed above the network interface may transmit text strings received as user input at the client apparatus or a license plate image processed by the client apparatus to the gateway . As further shown in this example the gateway may route the license plate image data to the OCR module to perform the OCR text extraction of the license plate information. In this example the OCR module may have specialized or a commercial OCR software application installed that enables accurate extraction of the license plate number and state. The OCR module may be similar to the OCR module discussed in . In one example the OCR module may also have the capability of determining if a license plate image contains a clear enough image that will provide for accurate text extraction. In this example if the license plate image does not contain a clear image or the image quality is too low the OCR module may alert the gateway to transmit a warning to the client apparatus . In an alternative example a license plate image may be recovered and transmitted to the gateway for further processing.

Once the license plate number and state information is extracted and converted to text strings the gateway will provide the extracted text to a translator which is capable of determining a VIN from the license plate information. The translator may communicate with third party services using functionality provided in an application programming interface API associated with the third party services. Such services may derive VINs from license plate information to retrieve the vehicle s VIN. In some aspects of the server the various modules may also be configured to communicate with the third party services or apparatuses not shown using APIs associated with the third party services. In such aspects of the server each module may route a request through the gateway to the network interface which will communicate with the appropriate third party service not shown .

The gateway then routes the retrieved VIN to the VIN decoder along with a request to generate a VIN explosion. The VIN decoder is capable of using the VIN to generate a VIN explosion by requesting the VIN explosion from a third party service. The VIN explosion includes all of the features attributes options and configurations of the vehicle associated with the VIN and the license plate image . In some aspects of the apparatus the VIN explosion may be provided as an array of data which the gateway or VIN decoder is capable of understanding processing and or routing accurately. Similar to the VIN translator the VIN decoder may communicate with a third party service by using an API associated with the service. The VIN and or vehicle data derived from the VIN explosion may be routed back through the gateway and through the network interface to the client apparatus . As discussed above the client apparatus may display the VIN and or vehicle data.

Next the VIN explosion data may be provided by the gateway to the insurance quote generator . The insurance quote generator may optionally receive and confirm that the VIN matches the information from the VIN explosion. Additionally if a user wishes to insure a vehicle that the user owns driver s license information may be transmitted from the apparatus over the network interface and routed by the gateway to the validation module . The validation module may query a third party service to verify that the driver s license information matches information related to the ownership of the particular VIN. If such information does not match up then an alert may be generated for the display at the apparatus . However if the validation module determines that the VIN and driver s license information match up the insurance quote generator may receive information about the driver along with the VIN explosion to underwrite a user for insurance. Once underwritten at least one accurate insurance quote may be transmitted through the gateway to the apparatus . Thus this exemplary diagram illustrates that two possible options for receiving an insurance quote. The first option may be an estimate simply based on the information derived from the vehicle license plate image. However the second option provides an owner of a vehicle the option to be underwritten for insurance and obtain insurance instantaneously. Thus a user may be able to make a more informed decision by having an estimated insurance cost of a vehicle. In some embodiments of the apparatus the data flow pattern may bypass the validation module and provide a more accurate estimated insurance quote based on the retrieved driver information as well as the VIN explosion when the insurance quote requestor is not the owner of the vehicle.

Once generated the insurance quote may then be routed through the gateway to the network interface for display on the apparatus . In some aspects of the apparatus a user may wish to obtain insurance coverage based on the received quote. In such aspects an interaction with the apparatus may initiate an action by the insurance quote generator to generate an actual insurance policy based on many of the factors discussed above. However one of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that several different factors may go into creating an insurance policy. Such factors may either be retrieved from third party service or provided by user interaction with the apparatus .

Additionally geographic information is provided to the insurance quote generator . The geographic information is used further refine the insurance quote. Such geographic information may be received by GPS or retrieved from a driver s license image as discussed above. Additionally the apparatus may receive user input of a location for generating the insurance quote. Providing the option to preview insurance quotes and be underwritten for an insurance policy simply based on a couple of images gives the user a simple and efficient way to estimate the cost of ownership of a particular vehicle and once the user becomes the owner of the vehicle the user may receive a new policy in a highly efficient manner.

As shown the process receives at license plate image information or text input from a mobile apparatus. The text input may be information associated with a vehicle license plate such as a state and alpha numeric characters. The process then requests at a VIN associated with the license plate information. The process may request the VIN by sending the request to a third party server. In some aspects of the server the process communicates with the third party server by using an API.

At the process receives the VIN associated with the license plate information. The process then requests at a vehicle configuration using the received VIN. The vehicle configuration may include different features and options that are equipped on the vehicle. For instance such features and options may include different wheel sizes interior trim vehicle type e.g. coupe sedan sport utility vehicle convertible truck etc. sound system suspension and any other suitable vehicle configuration or feature typically found in a vehicle. The vehicle configuration may be the VIN explosion discussed in the previous figure. The process receives at the vehicle configuration data.

At the process may optionally receive information from a driver s license image from the mobile apparatus. Such information may be useful for determining the requestor s driving record so that a more accurate insurance quote may be generated. Additionally location information may be recovered from the driver s license information to provide a quote based on where the requestor resides. In the case that requestor wants to insure a particular vehicle the process optionally requests at validation that the driver s license information matches the vehicle owner s information. At the process determines if the information matches. When the information does not match the process transmits at an alert to the mobile apparatus. However as discussed above steps may only be performed when a vehicle owner or alleged vehicle owner is seeking an insurance policy for the owner s vehicle. However if the requestor is simply looking for an estimate some or all of the previously described steps may be bypassed.

At the process requests an insurance quote from at least one entity capable of insurance underwriting. Such a quote may simply be an estimate based on the vehicle configuration. However in some aspects of the process the insurance quote may be based on a number of factors such as location and or driver information. The process transmits at the insurance quote to the mobile apparatus for display at the apparatus. Then the process ends.

The bus communicatively connects the internal devices and or components of the electronic system. For instance the bus communicatively connects the processor s with the ROM the RAM and the permanent storage . The processor s retrieve instructions from the memory units to execute processes of the invention.

The processor s may be implemented with one or more general purpose and or special purpose processors. Examples include microprocessors microcontrollers DSP processors and other circuitry that can execute software. Alternatively or in addition to the one or more general purpose and or special purpose processors the processor may be implemented with dedicated hardware such as by way of example one or more FPGAs Field Programmable Gate Array PLDs Programmable Logic Device controllers state machines gated logic discrete hardware components or any other suitable circuitry or any combination of circuits.

Many of the above described features and applications are implemented as software processes of a computer programming product. The processes are specified as a set of instructions recorded on a machine readable storage medium also referred to as machine readable medium . When these instructions are executed by one or more of the processor s they cause the processor s to perform the actions indicated in the instructions.

Furthermore software shall be construed broadly to mean instructions data or any combination thereof whether referred to as software firmware middleware microcode hardware description language or otherwise. The software may be stored or transmitted over as one or more instructions or code on a machine readable medium. Machine readable media include both computer storage media and communication media including any medium that facilitates transfer of a computer program from one place to another. A storage medium may be any available medium that can be accessed by the processor s . By way of example and not limitation such machine readable media can comprise RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that can be used to carry or store desired program code in the form of instructions or data structures and that can be accessed by a processor. Also any connection is properly termed a machine readable medium. For example if the software is transmitted from a website server or other remote source using a coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair digital subscriber line DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared IR radio and microwave then the coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave are included in the definition of medium. Disk and disc as used herein include compact disc CD laser disc optical disc digital versatile disc DVD floppy disk and Blu ray disc where disks usually reproduce data magnetically while discs reproduce data optically with lasers. Thus in some aspects machine readable media may comprise non transitory machine readable media e.g. tangible media . In addition for other aspects machine readable media may comprise transitory machine readable media e.g. a signal . Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of machine readable media.

Also in some embodiments multiple software inventions can be implemented as sub parts of a larger program while remaining distinct software inventions. In some embodiments multiple software inventions can also be implemented as separate programs. Any combination of separate programs that together implement a software invention described here is within the scope of the invention. In some embodiments the software programs when installed to operate on one or more electronic systems define one or more specific machine implementations that execute and perform the operations of the software programs.

The ROM stores static instructions needed by the processor s and other components of the electronic system. The ROM may store the instructions necessary for the processor s to execute the processes provided by the license plate detection apparatus. The permanent storage is a non volatile memory that stores instructions and data when the electronic system is on or off. The permanent storage is a read write memory device such as a hard disk or a flash drive. Storage media may be any available media that can be accessed by a computer. By way of example the ROM could also be EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that can be used to carry or store desired program code in the form of instructions or data structures and that can be accessed by a computer.

The RAM is a volatile read write memory. The RAM stores instructions needed by the processor s at runtime the RAM may also store the real time video images acquired during the license plate detection process. The bus also connects input and output devices and . The input devices enable the user to communicate information and select commands to the electronic system. The input devices may be a keypad image capture apparatus or a touch screen display capable of receiving touch interactions. The output device s display images generated by the electronic system. The output devices may include printers or display devices such as monitors.

The bus also couples the electronic system to a network . The electronic system may be part of a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN the Internet or an Intranet by using a network interface. The electronic system may also be a mobile apparatus that is connected to a mobile data network supplied by a wireless carrier. Such networks may include 3G HSPA EVDO and or LTE.

It is understood that the specific order or hierarchy of steps in the processes disclosed is an illustration of exemplary approaches. Based upon design preferences it is understood that the specific order or hierarchy of steps in the processes may be rearranged. Further some steps may be combined or omitted. The accompanying method claims present elements of the various steps in a sample order and are not meant to be limited to the specific order or hierarchy presented.

The various aspects of this disclosure are provided to enable one of ordinary skill in the art to practice the present invention. Various modifications to exemplary embodiments presented throughout this disclosure will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art and the concepts disclosed herein may be extended to other apparatuses devices or processes. Thus the claims are not intended to be limited to the various aspects of this disclosure but are to be accorded the full scope consistent with the language of the claims. All structural and functional equivalents to the various components of the exemplary embodiments described throughout this disclosure that are known or later come to be known to those of ordinary skill in the art are expressly incorporated herein by reference and are intended to be encompassed by the claims. Moreover nothing disclosed herein is intended to be dedicated to the public regardless of whether such disclosure is explicitly recited in the claims. No claim element is to be construed under the provisions of 35 U.S.C. 112 f unless the element is expressly recited using the phrase means for or in the case of a method claim the element is recited using the phrase step for. 

