---

title: Apparatus and method for running multiple instances of a same application in mobile devices
abstract: An apparatus and method for isolating at least one of a plurality of applications included in an electronic device are provided. The method includes selecting at least one of the plurality of applications included in the electronic device, preprocessing the at least one selected application so as to be at least one modified application included in a sandbox isolating the at least one selected applications from others of the plurality of applications, and installing the at least one modified application on the electronic device so as to be executed only according to the sandbox.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09575740&OS=09575740&RS=09575740
owner: Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.
number: 09575740
owner_city: Suwon-si
owner_country: KR
publication_date: 20150121
---
The present disclosure relates to an apparatus and method for running multiple instances of a same application in mobile devices. More particularly the present disclosure relates to an apparatus and method for running multiple instances of a same application in mobile devices without sharing data.

Mobile terminals are developed to provide wireless communication between users. As technology has advanced mobile terminals now provide many additional features beyond simple telephone conversation. For example mobile terminals are now able to provide additional functions such as an alarm a Short Messaging Service SMS a Multimedia Message Service MMS E mail games remote control of short range communication an image capturing function using a mounted digital camera a multimedia function for providing audio and video content a scheduling function and other similar functions.

Additionally mobile terminals may execute applications which may provide the above noted functions and or provide other functions and or operations on the mobile terminals. For example the applications may include a music playback application a video playback application a photo gallery application game applications social networking applications internet browsing applications file management applications cloud service applications and any other similar and or suitable applications functions and or operations. However an Operating System OS of a mobile terminal such as an Android OS and or any other similar and or suitable OS may not allow installation and or execution of multiple instances of a same application on the mobile terminal. For example if a user of a mobile terminal attempts to download and or install a second copy of an application the OS of the mobile terminal may prevent the downloading and or installation of the second copy of the application unless a first copy of the application is removed deleted and or overwritten. However a user of a mobile terminal may desire install and or execute more than one instance of an application on a mobile terminal. Accordingly there is a need for an apparatus and method for providing an improved user interface while reducing power consumption in a mobile terminal.

Aspects of the present disclosure are to address at least the above mentioned problems and or disadvantages and to provide at least the advantages described below. Accordingly an aspect of the present disclosure is to provide an apparatus and method for running multiple instances of a same application in mobile devices. More particularly the present disclosure relates to an apparatus and method for running multiple instances of a same application in mobile devices without sharing data.

In accordance with an aspect of the present disclosure a method for isolating at least one of a plurality of applications included in an electronic device is provided. The method includes selecting at least one of the plurality of applications included in the electronic device preprocessing the at least one selected application so as to be at least one modified application included in a sandbox isolating the at least one selected applications from others of the plurality of applications and installing the at least one modified application on the electronic device so as to be executed only according to the sandbox.

In accordance with another aspect of the present disclosure an apparatus for isolating at least one of a plurality of applications included in an electronic device is provided. The apparatus includes a display configured to display the plurality of applications included in the electronic device and to receive a user input selecting at least one of the plurality of applications a processor configured to preprocess the at least one selected application so as to be at least one modified application included in a sandbox isolating the at least one selected applications from others of the plurality of applications and to install the at least one modified application on the electronic device so as to be executed only according to the sandbox and a memory configured to store the at least one modified application.

Other aspects advantages and salient features of the disclosure will become apparent to those skilled in the art from the following detailed description which taken in conjunction with the annexed drawings discloses various embodiments of the disclosure.

Throughout the drawings it should be noted that like reference numbers are used to depict the same or similar elements features and structures.

Detailed descriptions of various aspects of the present disclosure will be discussed below with reference to the attached drawings. The descriptions are set forth as examples only and shall not limit the scope of the present disclosure.

The detailed description with reference to the accompanying drawings is provided to assist in a comprehensive understanding of an embodiment of the disclosure as defined by the claims and their equivalents. It includes various specific details to assist in that understanding but these are to be regarded as merely exemplary. Accordingly those of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that various changes and modifications of an embodiment described herein can be made without departing from the scope and spirit of the disclosure. In addition descriptions of well known functions and constructions are omitted for clarity and conciseness.

The terms and words used in the following description and claims are not limited to the bibliographical meanings but are merely used by the inventor to enable a clear and consistent understanding of the disclosure. Accordingly it should be apparent to those skilled in the art that the following description of an embodiment of the present disclosure are provided for illustration purpose only and not for the purpose of limiting the disclosure as defined by the appended claims and their equivalents.

It is to be understood that the singular forms a an and the include plural referents unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. Thus for example reference to a component surface includes reference to one or more of such surfaces.

By the term substantially it is meant that the recited characteristic parameter or value need not be achieved exactly but that deviations or variations including for example tolerances measurement error measurement accuracy limitations and other factors known to those of skill in the art may occur in amounts that do not preclude the effect the characteristic was intended to provide.

Unless defined differently all terms used in the present disclosure including technical or scientific terms have meanings that are understood generally by a person having ordinary skill in the art. Ordinary terms that may be defined in a dictionary should be understood to have the meaning consistent with their context and unless clearly defined in the present disclosure should not be interpreted to be excessively idealistic or formalistic.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure an electronic device may include communication functionality. For example an electronic device may be a smart phone a tablet Personal Computer PC a mobile phone a video phone an e book reader a desktop PC a laptop PC a netbook PC a Personal Digital Assistant PDA a Portable Multimedia Player PMP an MP3 player a mobile medical device a camera a wearable device e.g. a Head Mounted Device HMD electronic clothes electronic braces an electronic necklace an electronic appcessory an electronic tattoo or a smart watch and or the like.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure an electronic device may be a smart home appliance with communication functionality. A smart home appliance may be for example a television a Digital Video Disk DVD player an audio a refrigerator an air conditioner a vacuum cleaner an oven a microwave oven a washer a dryer an air purifier a set top box a TV box e.g. Samsung HomeSync Apple TV or Google TV a gaming console an electronic dictionary an electronic key a camcorder an electronic picture frame and or the like.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure an electronic device may be a medical device e.g. Magnetic Resonance Angiography MRA device a Magnetic Resonance Imaging MRI device Computed Tomography CT device an imaging device or an ultrasonic device a navigation device a Global Positioning System GPS receiver an Event Data Recorder EDR a Flight Data Recorder FDR an automotive infotainment device a naval electronic device e.g. naval navigation device gyroscope or compass an avionic electronic device a security device an industrial or consumer robot and or the like.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure an electronic device may be furniture part of a building structure an electronic board electronic signature receiving device a projector various measuring devices e.g. water electricity gas or electro magnetic wave measuring devices and or the like that include communication functionality.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure an electronic device may be any combination of the foregoing devices. In addition it will be apparent to one having ordinary skill in the art that an electronic device according to an embodiment of the present disclosure is not limited to the foregoing devices.

An embodiment of the present disclosure includes an apparatus and method for running multiple instances of a same application in mobile devices without sharing data.

An embodiment of the present disclosure provides isolation for Android applications and allows for multiple installations of a same Android application. For example applications included and or installed on a mobile terminal may be cloned so as to have a same logic and or presentation layer as an original application. The cloned applications may be modified to distinguish the cloned applications from the original application while having the same logic and or presentation layer as the original application.

The cloning of the applications and the distinguishing of the applications may be performed in order to execute and or maintain separate user accounts of an application for services provided according to a user account such as a Facebook application a social networking application a streaming media service an email application a Virtual Private Network VPN application a cloud service application and any other similar and or suitable application. The cloning and distinguishing of the applications may also allow for installation of applications in sandboxes which allows for at least one application to be included in a sandbox so as to share resources among the applications included in the sandbox and to restrict sharing of resources with applications not included in the sandbox.

In other words a sandbox may be a group of running programs i.e. programs that are currently being executed that are separated from and do not share resources with other programs that are not in the group included in the sandbox. Accordingly programs and or applications that may be untrusted unverified and or untested may be separated from applications in the sandbox i.e. applications that may be tested verified and or trusted applications in order to provide a secure environment for the execution of the applications in the sandbox without having to ensure integrity of a system that includes the sandbox. Additionally cloning and distinguishing the applications allows for multiple sessions or in other words multiple instances of an application to be executed at a same time and allows for any other similar and or suitable services and or cases that execute multiple sessions of an application at the same time without sharing data between respective sessions of the multiple sessions of the application that are executed at the same time.

Referring to a network environment includes an electronic device . The electronic device may include a bus a processor a memory an Input Output I O interface a display a communication interface an application processing module and or the like.

The bus may be circuitry that connect the foregoing components and allow communication between the foregoing components. For example the bus may connect components of the electronic device so as to allow control messages and or other infomraiton to be communicated between the connected components.

The processor may for example receive instructions from other components e.g. the memory the I O interface the display the communication interface the application processing module and or the like interpret the received instructions and execute computation or data processing according to the interpreted instructions.

The memory may for example store instructions and or data that are received from and or generated by other components e.g. the memory the I O interface the display the communication interface the application processing module and or the like. For example the memory may include programming modules such as a kernel a middleware an Application Programming Interface API an application and or the like. Each of the foregoing programming modules may include a combination of at least two of software firmware or hardware.

The kernel may control or manage system resources e.g. the bus the processor the memory and or the like that may be used in executing operations or functions implemented in other programming modules such as for example the middleware the API the application and or the like. The kernel may provide an interface for allowing or otherwise facilitating the middleware the API the application and or the like to access individual components of electronic device .

The middleware may be a medium through which the kernel may communicate with the API the application and or the like to send and receive data. The middleware may control e.g. scheduling load balancing and or the like work requests by the application . For example the middleware may control work requests by the application by assigning priorities for using system resources e.g. the bus the processor the memory and or the like of electronic device to the application .

The API may be an interface that may control functions that the application may provide at the kernel the middleware and or the like. For example the API may include at least an interface or a function e.g. command for file control window control video processing character control and por the like.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the application may include a Short Message Service SMS application a Multimedia Messaging Service MMS application an email application a calendar application an alarm application a health care application e.g. an exercise amount application a blood sugar level measuring application and or the like an environmental information application e.g. an application that may provide atmospheric pressure humidity temperature information and or the like an instant messaging application a call application an internet browsing application a gaming application a media playback application an image video capture application a file management application and or the like. In addition to or as an alternative to the application may be an application that is associated with information exchange between the electronic device and an external electronic device e.g. electronic device . As an example the application that is associated with the information exchange may include a notification relay application that may provide the external electronic device with a certain type of information a device management application that may manage the external electronic device and or the like.

As an example the notification relay application may include a functionality that provides notification generated by other applications at electronic device e.g. the SMS MMS application the email application the health care application the environmental information application the instant messaging application the call application the internet browsing application the gaming application the media playback application the image video capture application the file management application and or the like to an external electronic device e.g. the electronic device . In addition to or as an alternative to the notification relay application may provide for example receive notification from an external electronic device e.g. the electronic device and may provide the notification to a user.

As an example the device management application may manage enabling or disabling of functions associated with least a portion of an external electronic device e.g. the external electronic device itself or one or more components of the external electronic device in communication with electronic device controlling of brightness or resolution of a display of the external electronic device an application operated at or a service e.g. a voice call service a messaging service and or the like provided by the external electronic device and or the like.

According to various embodiments of the presnet disclosure as an example the application may include one or more applications that are determined according to a property e.g. type of electronic device and or the like of the external electronic device e.g. the electronic device . For example if the external electronic device is an mp3 player the application may include one or more applications related to music playback. As another example if the external electronic device is a mobile medical device the application may be a health care related application. According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the application may include at least one of an application that is preloaded at the electronic device an application that is received from an external electronic device e.g. the electronic device a server and or the like and or the like.

The I O interface may for example receive instruction and or data from a user. The I O interface may send the instruction and or the data via the bus to the processor the memory the communication interface the application processing module and or the like. For example the I O interface may provide data associated with user input received via a touch screen to the processor . The I O interface may for example output instructions and or data received via the bus from the processor the memory the communication interface the application processing module and or the like via an I O device e.g. a speaker a display and or the like . For example the I O interface may output voice data e.g. processed using the processor via a speaker.

The display may display various types of information e.g. multimedia text data and or the like to the user. As an example the display may display a Graphical User Interface GUI with which a user may interact with the electronic device .

The communication interface may provide communication between electronic device and one or more external electronic devices e.g. the electronic device the server and or the like . For example the communication interface may communicate with the external electronic device by establishing a connection with a network using wireless or wired communication. As an example wireless communication with which the communication interface may communicate may be at least one of Wi Fi Bluetooth Near Field Communication NFC Global Positioning System GPS cellular communication e.g. Long Term Evolution LTE LTE Advanced LTE A Code Division Multiple Access CDMA Wideband CDMA WDCMA Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS Wireless Broadband WiBro Global System for Mobile Communications GSM and or the like Infrared Data Association IrDA technology and or the like. As an example wired communication with which the communication interface may communicate may be at least one of for example Universal Serial Bus USB High Definition Multimedia Interface HDMI Recommended Standard 232 RS 232 Plain Old Telephone Service POTS Ethernet and or the like.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the network may be a telecommunications network. As an example the telecommunications network may include at least one of a computer network the Internet the Internet of Things a telephone network and or the like. According to various embodiments of the present disclosure a protocol e.g. a transport layer protocol a data link layer protocol a physical layer protocol and or the like for communicating between electronic device and an external electronic device may be supported by for example at least one of the application the API the middleware the kernel the communication interface and or the like.

The application processing module may for example process at least a part of information received from other components e.g. the processor the memory the I O interface the communication interface and or the like and provide various information services and or the like to the user in various manners. For example the application processing module may control via the processor or independently at least some of the functions of the electronic device to communicate or connect to another electronic device e.g. the electronic device the server and or the like . will provide additional information regarding the application processing module .

Referring to the application file may be for an android OS and accordingly may be an Android Application Package APK file . However the present disclosure is not limited thereto and the application file may be for any suitable and or similar operating system and may be any similar and or suitable file. For example the application file may be for an Apple iOS a Windows OS a Symbian OS a Debian based OS such as Ubuntu and may respectively be one of a .app file a .msi and or .msp file and a deb package file.

The APK file is a package file including a plurality of directories used to contain an application including respective metadata resources files data and information that is to be executed by an electronic device such as the electronic device . The APK file may be installed by a user of the electronic device and or may be installed by a manufacturer and or distributor of the electronic device . The APK file may be used to distribute and install application files libraries and or data to and on the electronic device . For example the user of the electronic device may download and the APK file using Radio Frequency RF communication to connect to a communication network and or another electronic device that performs RF communication. The communication network may be any suitable communication network such as a cellular network a Wi Fi network an Ethernet network or any other similar and or suitable wired and or wireless communication network.

The APK file may include at least one of a Meta Information META INF directory a library lib directory a resources res directory an assets directory a Manifest directory a classes directory and an Android Resource arsc directory such as a resources directory . The META INF directory may include at least one of a manifest file such as MANIFEST.MF an application certificate such as CERT.RSA and a resources list such as CERT.SF including a cryptographic hash function digest e.g. a Secure Hash Algorithm 1 SHA 1 digest.

The lib directory may include at least one directory including compiled code corresponding to a processor. For example the lib directory may include at least one of an armeabi directory not shown for ARM processors an armeabi v7a directory not shown for ARMv7 processors an x86 directory not shown for x86 processors and a Microprocessor without Interlocked Pipeline Stages MIPS directory not shown for MIPS processors. The res directory may include resources that are not included in the resources directory . The assets directory may include application assets which may be used by an asset manager. The Manifest directory may include an additional manifest file that is in addition to the manifest file included in the META INF directory providing further information corresponding to an application. The classes directory which may also be referred to as a classes.dex directory may include classes compiled for use by a Dalvik Virtual Machine VM which is a process VM and or application VM that may be used by an Android OS. The resources directory may include precompiled resources.

Referring to the static method of isolating the applications includes preprocessing of an application before installation of the application in order to install an already modified version of an application on the mobile terminal. In further detail the static method of isolating the applications may include analyzing of an application preparing of the application and overwriting a previous instance of the application with the prepared application.

In the static method illustrated in changing and or replacing any original images and or icons of an application is performed prior to installation of an application such that disassembling application may be performed as needed. Additionally collecting of needed information about images icons by reading and parsing all entries from an application overwriting and or replacing needed original images and or icons and assembling and or packaging all entries back to the application may be performed prior to installation of the application.

As shown in at least one of a plurality of applications such as Google Mail application an e mail application a Facebook application a music player application or any other similar and or suitable application may be selected for isolation in operation . Each of the plurality of applications may have a file structure as illustrated in . However the present disclosure is not limited thereto and each of the plurality of applications may have any similar and or suitable file structure that may be isolated according to the embodiment of .

At operation the at least one selected application from among the plurality of applications is preprocessed or in other words processed so as to be at least one modified application. In further detail an APK of the at least one selected application may be isolated by extracting and modifying an APK manifest of the APK. Modifying the APK may include changing and or modifying various descriptors included in the APK manifest. For example references which may include explicit references to process names may be modified so as to be unique across all applications or in other words the references to process included in the APK manifest may be modified to be unique for each application. Additionally the APK manifest may be modified by adding application permissions such as special application permissions and by modifying Android components that are defined when the selected application corresponding to the APK manifest is installed and or downloaded. Accordingly the selected application corresponding to the APK manifest that has been modified as described above may be installed alongside an original version of the selected application.

Modifying the APK or in other words isolating the APK may further include containerizing a Dalvik Executable DEX file corresponding to the at least one selected application the DEX file being at least one program and or application that has been translated into Dalvik bytecode which may also be referred to as Dalvik machine bytecode. The Dalvik bytecode may be analyzed and modified to provide data isolation and runtime isolation in or other words to isolate data corresponding to the Dalvik bytecode and to isolate execution of the selected application.

The data isolation and the runtime isolation of the Dalvik bytecode may be provided in order to intercept flow of the selected application corresponding to the Dalvik bytecode in certain scenarios. In other words the data isolation and the runtime isolation intercept may be provided by isolating flow of a program and or an application in a at least one of a state a scenario and or under at least one condition and to make changes to the program flow i.e. a logic and or set of instructions of the program at an occurrence of the at least one of the state the scenario and or under the at least one condition.

The flow of the program may be isolated by replacing and or modifying methods and or processes included in the Dalvik bytecode with and or according to proxy methods configured to provide the data isolation and the runtime isolation. In addition an object configured to provide the data isolation and the runtime isolation may be inserted into a class hierarchy of the Dalvik bytecode and or original code associated with the selected application. By using the proxy methods and or the objects a behavior of the selected application may be modified such that passing i.e. transmitting and or receiving of messages which may also be referred to as intents by an application and or between applications may be controlled to provide the data isolation and the runtime isolation.

For example an intent that launches a camera application such as a camera application that is included in an electronic device including a camera may be modified to launch a secure camera application that provides data isolation and runtime isolation. The modifications made in order to containerize the DEX file may match the modifications made to the APK manifest to isolate the APK. Accordingly a similarly modified set of applications may cooperate as a group and may be isolated according to a sandbox including the similarly modified set of application. Furthermore the modified APK manifest and the modified DEX file are repackaged into a new APK and the new APK may be signed with an appropriate certificate in order to ensure integrity of the APK as being ready to be containerized and or included in a sandbox.

Next at operation the at least one modified application is installed on an electronic device such as the electronic device . Accordingly a user of the electronic device may execute and or run concurrent instances of each of the at least one modified applications such that each instance of the at least one modified applications does not share resources with another instance of the at least one modified applications.

Referring to the dynamic method of isolating the applications includes modifying an application during installation of the application on a mobile terminal. At operation an original application is selected from among a plurality of applications stored on an electronic device such as the electronic device . Next at operation the selected original application is modified according to an isolation process performed so as to generate a modified application . In order to generate the modified application the electronic device may modify an APK manifest included in an APK of the selected original application as described above with reference to . After the modified application has been generated at operation the modified application is stored on the electronic device .

Accordingly the dynamic method of includes analyzing an application prior to installation of the application and during runtime overwriting images on the fly or in other words during and as a process included in the runtime of the application. In order to change and or replace any original images and or icons using the dynamic method all needed images are modified during the runtime. Accordingly the dynamic method may include collecting needed information about images and or icons by reading and parsing all entries from an application installing an original application without any changes and modifying on the device standard software and or modules responsible for the handling all activities related to the application installation process and image loading.

Additionally the dynamic method of may include recognizing when an image and or icon should be replaced and or overwritten during loading and or presentation of the application replacing and or overwriting a particular image on the fly on the device and or remotely and presenting a newly created image instead of the original one.

Referring to at operation an original application is pulled from among a plurality of installed applications stored on an electronic device such as the electronic device in order to modify the original application so as to include the modified application in a sandbox. In other words at least one application i.e. the original application may be selected from among the plurality of installed applications to be included in the sandbox. For example the original application may be selected by a user of the electronic device and or the application may be selected automatically to be included the sandbox.

At operation the original application is modified to be included in the sandbox. The original application may be modified in a manner similar to the operations such as the preprocessing of the at least one selected application described at operation of and accordingly description of such operations will be omitted herein for the purpose of brevity. Next at operation the modified application may installed according to the preprocessing performed in operation so as to be executed with data isolation and runtime isolation provided according to the sandbox.

Additionally at and or after operation the combined method of isolating applications may include analyzing an application before installation of the application generating a new image and or icon after the installation of the application and saving the application locally on the device on the external memory or remotely and using the application later by replacing the original application.

In further detail changing and or replacing any original images and or icons of an application using the combined method of includes collecting needed information about images and or icons by reading and parsing all entries from an application installing the original application without any changes modifying standard software and or modules on the device responsible for all activities related to the application installation process and image loading. The combined method further includes determining which image and or icon should be replaced and creating a new image locally and or remotely during at least one of installation of the application a first run of the application and performing overwriting of the application as a separate process saving the newly created images locally and or remotely and presenting the new images instead of the original images and or icons.

Referring to a home screen including a plurality of applications and or widgets that may be executed on an electronic device are shown. At least one of the plurality of applications and or widgets may be included in a sandbox. The sandbox may be preconfigured to include at least one of the plurality of applications and or widgets and or a user of the electronic device may select at least one of the plurality of applications and or widgets to be included in a sandbox.

Referring to the at least one of the applications and or widgets included in the sandbox may be displayed on a screen of the electronic device. A sandbox indicator may be displayed on the screen including the plurality of applications and or widgets included in the sandbox to indicate that only the plurality of applications and or widgets included in the sandbox are displayed on the screen of the electronic device.

Referring to an application from among the at least one application and or widget included in the sandbox may be executed so as to provide data isolation and application isolation during execution of the application .

Referring to hardware may be for example a part or all of the electronic device . The hardware may include one or more Application Processors AP a communication module a Subscriber Identification Module SIM card a memory a sensor module an input module a display module an interface an audio module a camera module a power management module a battery an indicator a motor and or the like.

The AP may control one or more hardware or software components that are connected to AP perform processing or computation of data including multimedia data and or the like. As an example the AP may be implemented as a System on Chip SoC . The AP may include a Graphics Processing Unit GPU not shown .

The communication module e.g. the communication interface may transmit and receive data in communications between the electronic device and other electronic devices e.g. the electronic device the server and or the like . As an example the communication module may include one or more of a cellular module a Wi Fi module a Bluetooth module a GPS module a NFC module a Radio Frequency RF module and or the like.

The cellular module may provide services such as for example a voice call a video call a Short Messaging Service SMS internet service and or the like via a communication network e.g. LTE LTE A CDMA WCDMA UMTS WiBro GSM and or the like . As an example the cellular module may differentiate and authorize electronic devices within a communication network using a Subscriber Identification Module SIM card e.g. the SIM card . According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the cellular module may perform at least a part of the functionalities of the AP . For example the cellular module may perform at least a part of multimedia control functionality.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the communication interface and or the cellular module may include a Communication Processor CP . As an example the cellular module may be implemented as SoC.

Although illustrates components such as the cellular module e.g. CP the memory the power management module as components that are separate from the AP according to various embodiments of the present disclosure the AP may include or be integrated with one or more of the foregoing components e.g. the cellular module .

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the AP the cellular module e.g. CP and or the like may process instructions or data received from at least one of non volatile memory or other components by loading in volatile memory. The AP the cellular module the communication interface and or the like may store at non volatile memory at least one of data that is received from at least one of other components or data that is generated by at least one of the other components.

Each of the Wi Fi module the Bluetooth module the GPS module the NFC module and or the like may for example include one or more processors that may process data received or transmitted by the respective modules. Although illustrates the cellular module the Wi Fi module the Bluetooth module the GPS module and the NFC module as separate blocks according to various embodiments of the present disclosure any combination e.g. two or more of the cellular module the Wi Fi module the Bluetooth module the GPS module the NFC module and or the like may be included in an Integrated Chip IC or an IC package. For example at least some of the processors corresponding to the respective the cellular module the Wi Fi module the Bluetooth module the GPS module the NFC module and or the like may be implemented as a single SoC. For example a CP corresponding to the cellular module and a Wi Fi processor corresponding to Wi Fi module may be implemented as a single SoC.

The RF module may for example transmit and receive RF signals. Although not shown the RF module may include a transceiver a Power Amp Module PAM a frequency filter a Low Noise Amplifier LNA and or the like. The RF module may include one or more components for transmitting and receiving Electro Magnetic EM waves e.g. in free space or the like such as for example conductors or conductive wires. Although illustrates that the cellular module the Wi Fi module the Bluetooth module the GPS module and the NFC module are sharing one RF module according to various embodiments of the present disclosure at least one of the cellular module the Wi Fi module the Bluetooth module the GPS module the NFC module and or the like may transmit and receive RF signals via a separate RF module.

The SIM card may be a card implementing a SIM and may be configured to be inserted into a slot disposed at a specified location of the electronic device. The SIM card may include a unique identifier e.g. Integrated Circuit Card IDentifier ICCID subscriber information e.g. International Mobile Subscriber Identity IMSI and or the like.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the internal memory may be for example at least one of volatile memory e.g. Dynamic Random Access Memory DRAM Static Random Access Memory SRAM or Synchronous Dynamic Random Access Memory SDRAM non volatile memory e.g. One Time Programmable Read Only Memory OTPROM Programmable Read Only Memory PROM Erasable and Programmable Read Only Memory EPROM Electrically Erasable and Programmable Read Only Memory EEPROM mask Read Only Memory ROM flash ROM NAND flash memory NOR flash memory and or the like.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the internal memory may be a Solid State Drive SSD . As an example the external memory may be a flash drive e.g. Compact Flash CF drive Secure Digital SD micro Secure Digital micro SD mini Secure Digital mini SD extreme Digital xD Memory Stick and or the like . The external memory may be operatively coupled to electronic device via various interfaces. According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the electronic device may include recording devices or recording media such as for example Hard Disk Drives HDD and or the like.

The sensor module may measure physical environmental properties detect operational states associated with electronic device and or the like and convert the measured and or detected information into signals such as for example electric signals or electromagnetic signals. As an example the sensor module may include at least one of a gesture sensor A a gyro sensor B an atmospheric pressure sensor C a magnetic sensor D an accelerometer E a grip sensor F a proximity sensor G an RGB sensor H a biometric sensor I a temperature humidity sensor J a luminosity sensor K a Ultra Violet UV sensor M and or the like. The sensor module may detect the operation state of the electronic device and or measure physical properties and convert the detected or measured information into electrical signals. Additionally or alternatively the sensor module may also include for example an electrical nose sensor not shown an electromyography EMG sensor not shown an electroencephalogram EEG sensor not shown an infrared IR sensor not shown an eye scanning sensor e.g. iris sensor not shown a fingerprint sensor and or the like. The sensor module may also include control circuitry for controlling one or more sensors included therein.

The input module may include a touch panel a digital pen sensor a key an ultrasonic input device and or the like.

As an example the touch panel may detect touch input using capacitive resistive infrared ultrasonic methods and or the like. The touch panel may also include a touch panel controller not shown . As an example a capacitive type touch panel may detect proximity inputs e.g. hovering input in addition to or as an alternative to physical touch inputs. The touch panel may also include a tactile layer. According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the touch panel may provide haptic feedback to the user using the tactile layer.

As an example the digital pen sensor may be implemented using methods identical to or similar to receiving a touch input from a user or using a separate detection sheet e.g. a digitizer .

As an example the ultrasonic input device may be a device configured to identify data by detecting using a microphone e.g. a microphone ultrasonic signals generated by a device capable of generating the ultrasonic signal. The ultrasonic input device may detect data wirelessly.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the electronic device may receive user input from an external device e.g. a network computer or server connected to the electronic device using the communication module .

The display module e.g. display may include a panel a hologram device a projector and or the like. As an example the panel may be for example a Liquid Crystal Display LCD an Active Matrix Organic Light Emitting Diode AM OLED display and or the like. As an example the panel may be configured to be flexible transparent and or wearable. The panel and the touch panel may be implemented as a single module. The hologram device may provide a three dimensional image. For example the hologram device may utilize the interference of light waves to provide a three dimensional image in empty space. The projector may provide image by projecting light on a surface e.g. a wall a screen and or the like . As an example the surface may be positioned internal or external to electronic device . According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the display module may also include a control circuitry for controlling the panel the hologram device the projector and or the like.

The interface may include for example one or more interfaces for a High Definition Multimedia Interface HDMI a Universal Serial Bus USB a projector or a D subminiature D sub and or the like. As an example the interface may be part of the communication interface . Additionally or alternatively the interface may include for example one or more interfaces for Mobile High definition Link MHL Secure Digital SD MultiMedia Card MMC Infrared Data Association IrDA and or the like.

The audio module may encode decode sound into electrical signal and vice versa. According to various embodiments of the present disclosure at least a portion of audio module may be part of the I O interface . As an example the audio module may encode decode voice information that is input into or output from the speaker the receiver the earphone the microphone and or the like.

The camera module may capture still images and or video. According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the camera module may include one or more image sensors e.g. front sensor module rear sensor module and or the like not shown an Image Signal Processor ISP not shown or a flash e.g. Light Emitting Diode flash LED xenon lamp and or the like not shown .

The power management module may manage electrical power of the electronic device . Although not shown the power management module may include for example a Power Management Integrated Circuit PMIC a charger Integrated Circuit charger IC a battery gauge a fuel gauge and or the like.

As an example the PMIC may be disposed in an integrated circuit or an SoC semiconductor. The charging method for the electronic device may include wired or wireless charging. The charger IC may charge a battery may prevent excessive voltage or excessive current from a charger from entering the electronic device and or the like. According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the charger IC may include at least one of a wired charger IC or a wireless charger IC. As an example the wireless charger IC may be a magnetic resonance type a magnetic induction type an electromagnetic wave type and or the like. As an example the wireless charger IC may include circuits such as a coil loop a resonance circuit a rectifier and or the like.

As an example the battery gauge may measure a charge level a voltage while charging a temperature of battery and or the like.

As an example the battery may supply power to the electronic device . As an example the battery may be a rechargeable battery a solar battery and or the like.

The indicator may indicate one or more states e.g. boot status message status charge status and or the like of the electronic device or a portion thereof e.g. the AP . Motor may convert an electrical signal into a mechanical vibration.

Although not shown the electronic device may include one or more devices for supporting mobile television mobile TV e.g. a Graphics Processing Unit GPU and or the like. The devices for supporting mobile TV may support processing of media data compliant with for example Digital Multimedia Broadcasting DMB Digital Video Broadcasting DVB media flow and or the like.

It will be appreciated that various embodiments of the present disclosure according to the claims and description in the specification can be realized in the form of hardware software or a combination of hardware and software.

Any such software may be stored in a non transitory computer readable storage medium. The non transitory computer readable storage medium stores one or more programs software modules the one or more programs comprising instructions which when executed by one or more processors in an electronic device cause the electronic device to perform a method of the present disclosure.

Any such software may be stored in the form of volatile or non volatile storage such as for example a storage device like a Read Only Memory ROM whether erasable or rewritable or not or in the form of memory such as for example Random Access Memory RAM memory chips device or integrated circuits or on an optically or magnetically readable medium such as for example a Compact Disk CD Digital Versatile Disc DVD magnetic disk or magnetic tape or the like. It will be appreciated that the storage devices and storage media are various embodiments of non transitory machine readable storage that are suitable for storing a program or programs comprising instructions that when executed implement various embodiments of the present disclosure. Accordingly various embodiments provide a program comprising code for implementing apparatus or a method as claimed in any one of the claims of this specification and a non transitory machine readable storage storing such a program.

While the disclosure has been shown and described with reference to various embodiments thereof it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes in form and details may be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope of the disclosure as defined by the appended claims and their equivalents. Various embodiments of the present disclosure are described as examples only and are noted intended to limit the scope of the present disclosure. Accordingly the scope of the present disclosure should be understood as to include any and all modifications that may be made without departing from the technical spirit of the present disclosure.

