---

title: Dynamic adjustment of game controller sensitivity based on audio analysis
abstract: An electronic device may receive a plurality of channels of game and/or chat audio during play of a game. The electronic device may detect one or more sounds on one or more of the audio channels during the monitoring of the plurality of audio channels. The electronic device may control, based on the detected one or more sounds, operation of a game controller that interacts with the game during play. The controlling of the operation of the game controller may comprise adjusting sensitivity of the game controller. The electronic device may determine directionality of the detected one or more sounds and adjust the sensitivity of the game controller based on the determined directionality of the detected one or more sounds. The electronic device may increase and/or decrease the sensitivity of the game controller in response to changes in the determined directionality of the detected one or more sounds.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09550113&OS=09550113&RS=09550113
owner: Voyetra Turtle Beach, Inc.
number: 09550113
owner_city: Valhalla
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150316
---
This patent application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 331 512 filed Jul. 15 2014 now patented as U.S. Pat. No. 8 979 658 which in turn claims priority to and the benefit of U.S. provisional patent application 61 889 102 filed on Oct. 10 2013. Each of the above reference documents is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Aspects of the present application relate to electronic gaming. More specifically to methods and systems for dynamic adjustment of game controller sensitivity based on audio analysis.

Limitations and disadvantages of conventional approaches to audio processing for gaming will become apparent to one of skill in the art through comparison of such approaches with some aspects of the present method and system set forth in the remainder of this disclosure with reference to the drawings.

Methods and systems are provided for dynamic control of game controller sensitivity based on audio analysis substantially as illustrated by and or described in connection with at least one of the figures as set forth more completely in the claims.

Certain embodiments of the disclosure may be found in a method and system for dynamic control of game controller sensitivity based on audio analysis. In accordance with various embodiments of the disclosure an electronic device such as an audio headset and or audio basestation may receive a plurality of channels of game and or chat audio during play of a game. The electronic device may detect one or more sounds on one or more of the audio channels during the monitoring of the plurality of audio channels. The electronic device may control based on the detected one or more sounds operation of a game controller that interacts with the game during play. The controlling of the operation of the game controller may comprise adjusting sensitivity of the game controller. The electronic device may determine directionality of the detected one or more sounds and adjust the sensitivity of the game controller based on the determined directionality of the detected one or more sounds. The electronic device may increase and or decrease the sensitivity of the game controller in response to changes in the determined directionality of the detected one or more sounds. The electronic device may perform signal analysis on the plurality of channels. The electronic device may determine characteristics of the detected one or more sounds based on the signal analysis. The electronic device may adjust the sensitivity of the game controller based on the determined characteristics of the detected one or more sounds. The electronic device may increase and or decrease the sensitivity of the game controller in response to changes in the determined characteristics of the detected one or more sounds. The electronic device may perform the increase and or decrease of the sensitivity of the game controller dynamically e.g. during game play while concurrently processing audio and or adaptively e.g. based on feedback such as from the game controller and or the game console on which the game is being played .

The game console may comprise suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to present a game to and also enable game play interaction between one or more local players and or one or more remote players. The game console which may be for example a Windows computing device a Unix computing device a Linux computing device an Apple OSX computing device an Apple iOS computing device an Android computing device a Microsoft Xbox a Sony Playstation a Nintendo Wii or the like. The example game console comprises a radio network interface video interface audio interface controller hub main system on chip SoC memory optical drive and storage device . The SoC comprises central processing unit CPU graphics processing unit GPU audio processing unit APU cache memory and memory management unit MMU . The various components of the game console are communicatively coupled through various buses links and .

The controller hub comprises circuitry that supports one or more data bus protocols such as High Definition Multimedia Interface HDMI Universal Serial Bus USB Serial Advanced Technology Attachment II III or variants thereof SATA II SATA III embedded multimedia card interface e.MMC Peripheral Component Interconnect Express PCIe or the like. The controller hub may also be referred to as an input output I O controller hub. Exemplary controller hubs may comprise Southbridge Haswell Fusion and Sandybridge. The controller hub may be operable to receive audio and or video from an external source via link e.g. HDMI from the optical drive e.g. Blu Ray via link e.g. SATA II SATA III and or from storage e.g. hard drive FLASH memory or the like via link e.g. SATA II III and or e.MMC . Digital audio and or video is output to the SoC via link e.g. CEA 861 E compliant video and IEC 61937 compliant audio . The controller hub exchanges data with the radio via link e.g. USB with external devices via link e.g. USB with the storage via the link and with the SoC via the link e.g. PCIe .

The radio may comprise suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to communicate in accordance with one or more wireless standards such as the IEEE 802.11 family of standards the Bluetooth family of standards near field communication NFC and or the like.

The network interface may comprise suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to communicate in accordance with one or more wired standards and to convert between wired standards. For example the network interface may communicate with the SoC via link using a first standard e.g. PCIe and may communicate with the network using a second standard e.g. gigabit Ethernet .

The video interface may comprise suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to communicate video in accordance with one or more wired or wireless video transmission standards. For example the video interface may receive CEA 861 E compliant video data via link and encapsulate format etc. the video data in accordance with an HDMI standard for output to the monitor via an HDMI link .

The audio interface may comprise suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to communicate audio in accordance with one or more wired or wireless audio transmission standards. For example the audio interface may receive CEA 861 E compliant audio data via the link and encapsulate format etc. the video data in accordance with an HDMI standard for output to the audio subsystem via an HDMI link .

The central processing unit CPU may comprise suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to execute instructions for controlling coordinating the overall operation of the game console . Such instructions may be part of an operating system of the console and or part of one or more software applications running on the console.

The graphics processing unit GPU may comprise suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to perform graphics processing functions such as compression decompression encoding decoding 3D rendering and or the like.

The audio processing unit APU may comprise suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to perform audio processing functions such as volume gain control compression decompression encoding decoding surround sound processing and or the like to output single channel or multi channel e.g. 2 channels for stereo or 5 7 or more channels for surround sound audio signals. The APU comprises memory e.g. volatile and or non volatile memory which stores parameter settings to affect processing of audio by the APU . For example the parameter settings may include a first audio gain volume setting that determines at least in part a volume of game audio output by the console and a second audio gain volume setting that determines at least in part a volume of chat audio output by the console . The parameter settings may be modified via a graphical user interface GUI of the console and or via an application programming interface API provided by the console .

The cache memory may comprise suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may provide high speed memory functions for use by the CPU GPU and or APU . The cache memory may typically comprise DRAM or variants thereof. The memory may comprise additional memory for use by the CPU GPU and or APU . The memory typically DRAM may operate at a slower speed than the cache memory but may also be less expensive than cache memory as well as operate at a higher speed than the memory of the storage device . The MMU controls accesses by the CPU GPU and or APU to the memory the cache and or the storage device .

In the example game console is communicatively coupled to the user interface device the user interface device the network the monitor and the audio subsystem .

Each of the user interface devices and may comprise for example a game controller a keyboard a motion sensor position tracker or the like. The user interface device communicates with the game console wirelessly via link e.g. Wi Fi Direct Bluetooth NFC and or the like . The user interface device may be operable to communicate with the game console via the wired link e.g. USB or the like .

The network comprises a local area network and or a wide area network. The game console communicates with the network via wired link e.g. Gigabit Ethernet .

The monitor may be for example a LCD OLED or PLASMA screen. The game console sends video to the monitor via link e.g. HDMI .

The audio subsystem may be for example a headset a combination of headset and audio basestation or a set of speakers and accompanying audio processing circuitry. The game console sends audio to the audio subsystem via link s e.g. S PDIF for digital audio or line out for analog audio . Additional details of an example audio subsystem are described below.

The monitor and the user interface device are as described above. The headset is as described below with reference to . The audio basestation is as described below with reference to for example .

The multi purpose device may comprise for example a tablet computer a smartphone a laptop computer or the like and that runs an operating system such as Android Linux Windows iOS OSX or the like. An example multi purpose device is described below with reference to . Hardware e.g. a network adaptor and software i.e. the operating system and one or more applications loaded onto the device may configure the device for operating as part of the GPN . For example an application running on the device may cause display of a graphical user interface GUI which may enable a user to access gaming related data commands functions parameter settings and so on. The graphical user interface may enable a user to interact with the console and the other devices of the GPN to enhance the user s gaming experience. Examples of such interactions between the device and the other devices of the GPN are described in above incorporated U.S. provisional patent application 61 878 728 titled Multi Device Gaming Interface.

The peripheral devices are in communication with one another via a plurality of wired and or wireless links represented visually by the placement of the devices in the cloud of GPN . Each of the peripheral devices in the gaming peripheral network GPN may communicate with one or more others of the peripheral devices in the GPN in a single hop or multi hop fashion. For example the headset may communicate with the basestation in a single hop e.g. over a proprietary RF link and with the device in a single hop e.g. over a Bluetooth or Wi Fi direct link while the tablet may communicate with the basestation in two hops via the headset . As another example the user interface device may communicate with the headset in a single hop e.g. over a Bluetooth or Wi Fi direct link and with the device in a single hop e.g. over a Bluetooth or Wi Fi direct link while the device may communicate with the headset in two hops via the user interface device . These example interconnections among the peripheral devices of the GPN are merely examples any number and or types of links and or hops among the devices of the GPN is possible.

The GPN may communicate with the console via any one or more of the connections and described above. The GPN may communicate with a network via one or more links each of which may be for example Wi Fi wired Ethernet and or the like.

A database which stores gaming audio data is accessible via the network . The gaming audio data may comprise for example signatures or acoustic fingerprints of particular audio clips e.g. individual sounds or collections or sequences of sounds that are part of the game audio of particular games of particular levels scenarios of particular games particular characters of particular games etc. In an example implementation the database may comprise a plurality of records where each record comprises an audio clip or signature of the clip a description of the clip e.g. the game it is from when it occurs in the game etc. one or more gaming commands associated with the clip one or more parameter settings associated with the clip and or other data associated with the audio clip. Records of the database may be downloadable to or accessed in real time by one of more devices of the GPN .

In instances where the user interface device comprises a game controller that is operable to control game play the sensitivity of the user interface device may be controlled based on sounds that are detected during the game play. In this regard the headset may be operable to monitor a plurality of channels of game and or chat audio and detect the sounds during game play. Based on the characteristics of the detected sounds the headset may be operable to control the sensitivity of the game controller. As sensitivity increases the same amount of movement of a joystick or D pad of the controller results in relatively larger or more rapid on screen movements. Similarly as sensitivity decreases the same amount of movement of a joystick or D pad of the controller results in relatively smaller or less rapid on screen movements.

In some embodiments of the disclosure the headset may be operable to communicate directly with the game controller via for example a wireless communication link. In this regard the headset may be operable to communicate information that is used to control the sensitivity over the game controller over the wireless communication link. In some embodiments of the disclosure the headset may be operable to communicate indirectly with the game controller via the console . In this regard the headset may be operable to communicate information that is used to control the sensitivity over the game controller to the console and the console may utilize that information to control the game controller and or control its response to inputs from the game controller. In some embodiments of the disclosure the console may communicate the information that is received from the headset to the game controller and the game controller may utilize the received information to control its sensitivity. The communication link between the headset and the game console may comprise a wired and or wireless communication link and the communication link between the game console and the game controller may comprise a wired and or wireless communication link.

In some embodiments of the disclosure the basestation may be operable to provide connectivity between the headset the console and the user interface device which may comprise a game controller. In this regard the basestation may be operable to communicate game controller sensitivity information from the game headset to the user interface device which may comprise a game controller.

The connector may be for example a 3.5 mm headphone socket for receiving analog audio signals e.g. receiving chat audio via an Xbox talkback cable .

The microphone may comprise suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to convert acoustic waves e.g. the voice of the person wearing the headset to electric signals for processing by circuitry of the headset and or for output to a device e.g. console basestation a smartphone and or the like that is in communication with the headset.

The speakers and may comprise circuitry that may be operable to convert electrical signals to sound waves.

The user controls may comprise dedicated and or programmable buttons switches sliders wheels etc. for performing various functions. Example functions which the controls may be configured to perform include power the headset on off mute unmute the microphone control gain volume of and or effects applied to chat audio by the audio processing circuitry of the headset control gain volume of and or effects applied to game audio by the audio processing circuitry of the headset enable disable initiate pairing e.g. via Bluetooth Wi Fi direct NFC or the like with another computing device and or the like. Some of the user controls may adaptively and or dynamically change during gameplay based on a particular game that is being played. Some of the user controls may also adaptively and or dynamically change during gameplay based on a particular player that is engage in the game play. The connector may be for example a USB thunderbolt Firewire or other type of port or interface. The connector may be used for downloading data to the headset from another computing device and or uploading data from the headset to another computing device. Such data may include for example parameter settings described below . Additionally or alternatively the connector may be used for communicating with another computing device such as a smartphone tablet compute laptop computer or the like.

The radio may comprise suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to communicate in accordance with one or more standardized such as for example the IEEE 802.11 family of standards NFC the Bluetooth family of standards and or the like and or proprietary wireless protocol s e.g. a proprietary protocol for receiving audio from an audio basestation such as the basestation .

The CPU may comprise suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to execute instructions for controlling coordinating the overall operation of the headset . Such instructions may be part of an operating system or state machine of the headset and or part of one or more software applications running on the headset . In some implementations the CPU may be for example a programmable interrupt controller a state machine or the like.

The CPU may also be operable to handle dynamic control of game controller sensitivity based on audio analysis of a plurality of audio channels. In this regard the CPU may be operable to dynamically and or adaptively handle the adjustment of the sensitivity of one or more of the user interface devices such as a game controller based on audio detected on one or more of a plurality of monitored audio channels and or based on audio information which may be stored in the storage device and or the memory . The audio information may include information such as is stored in the database of . Characteristics of detected sounds may for example be input to a look up table for a particular game to identify the particular sounds and once the sounds are identified a database record corresponding to that sound may be accessed to for example determine controller sensitivity suited for interacting with a source of the sound.

The storage device may comprise suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may comprise for example FLASH or other nonvolatile memory which may be operable to store data comprising operating data configuration data settings and so on which may be used by the CPU and or the audio processing circuit . Such data may include for example parameter settings that affect processing of audio signals in the headset and parameter settings that affect functions performed by the user controls . For example one or more parameter settings may determine at least in part a gain of one or more gain elements of the audio processing circuit . As another example one or more parameter settings may determine at least in part a frequency response of one or more filters that operate on audio signals in the audio processing circuit . As another example one or more parameter settings may determine at least in part whether and which sound effects are added to audio signals in the audio processing circuit e.g. which effects to add to microphone audio to morph the user s voice . Example parameter settings which affect audio processing are described in the co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 040 144 titled Gaming Headset with Programmable Audio and published as US2012 0014553 the entirety of which is hereby incorporated herein by reference. Particular parameter settings may be selected autonomously by the headset in accordance with one or more algorithms based on user input e.g. via controls and or based on input received via one or more of the connectors and .

The storage device may also be operable to store audio information corresponding to a plurality of audio channels for a game play. The audio information may be utilized to control sensitivity of one or more of the user interface devices such as a game controller. In one embodiment of the disclosure the headset may be operable to download the audio information for a particular game from a server and store the downloaded audio information in the storage device . In this regard the CPU may be operable to configure the radio to download the audio information for a particular game.

In an embodiment of the disclosure the CPU may be operable to configure the audio processing circuit to perform signal analysis on the plurality of audio channels that are received via the connector and or the radio . The CPU may be operable to control the operation of the audio processing circuit in order to store the results of the audio analysis along with an identifier of the game in the storage device and or upload the results to an online location such as the database of . The audio analysis may be executed the first time that the game is played using the headset . The stored results of the audio analysis may be utilized by the headset to control sensitivity of one or more of the user interface devices such as a game controller.

The memory may comprise suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may comprise volatile memory used by the CPU and or audio processing circuit as program memory for storing runtime data etc. In this regard the memory may comprise information and or data that may be utilized to control operation of the audio processing circuit to perform signal analysis on the plurality of received audio channels. The memory may comprise information and or data that may be utilized by the headset to control sensitivity of one or more of the user interface devices such as a game controller.

The audio processing circuit may comprise suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to perform audio processing functions such as volume gain control compression decompression encoding decoding introduction of audio effects e.g. echo phasing virtual surround effect etc. and or the like. As described above the processing performed by the audio processing circuit may be determined at least in part by which parameter settings have been selected. The processing performed by the audio processing circuit may also be determined based on default settings player preference and or by adaptive and or dynamic changes to the game play environment. The processing may be performed on game chat and or microphone audio that is subsequently output to speaker and . Additionally or alternatively the processing may be performed on chat audio that is subsequently output to the connector and or radio .

The audio processing circuit may be operable to perform signal analysis on the received channels of game and or chat audio. In this regard the audio processing circuit may be operable to analyze the audio on each of the plurality of received audio channels in order to determine for example directionality of one or more detected sounds. Directionality of a particular sound may be determine by for example which surround channel s the sound is currently detected on which surround channel s the sound was previously detected on a current intensity of the sound and or a previous intensity of the sound. Based on the analysis the audio processing circuit may be operable to increase or decrease the sensitivity of one or more of the user interface devices such as a game controller. For example if the audio analysis determines that the detected sounds may be coming from the rear of the listener s game character then the headset may be operable to increase the sensitivity of the game controller so that the game controller becomes highly sensitive and may be utilized to rapidly spin the listener s game character in the direction of the detected sounds. When the audio processing circuit determines that the detected sounds have moved to the center channel the headset may be operable to decrease the sensitivity of the game controller so the listener s game character may be maneuvered to a position where it may precisely interact with the source of the sounds.

In an exemplary operation of the disclosure the CPU may be operable to control the audio processing circuit to detect sounds on one or more monitored audio channels for a game during game play. The CPU may be operable to configure the headset to control operation of one or more of the user interface devices such as a game controller based on characteristics of the detected sounds. In this regard the headset may be operable to analyze the sounds that are detected on one or more of the monitored audio channels and may determine the directionality of the detected sounds. Based on the determined directionality the CPU may control the headset to generate one or more signals for adjusting the sensitivity of the one or more of the user interface devices such as a game controller by dynamically and or adaptively increasing or decreasing the sensitivity of the game controller. The CPU may also be operable to obtain stored audio information for the game from the storage device . In this regard the CPU may detect or determine the identity of the game and may obtain or load the corresponding stored audio information for the detected or determined game from the storage device and or from an online source such as database . The stored audio information may also be utilized by the headset to control operation of the one or more of the user interface devices such as a game controller.

The audio connectors and may comprise digital audio in and digital audio out e.g. S PDIF connectors respectively. The audio connectors and may comprise a left line in and a right line in connector respectively. The controls may comprise for example a power button a button for enabling disabling virtual surround sound a button for adjusting the perceived angles of the speakers when the virtual surround sound is enabled and a dial for controlling a volume gain of the audio received via the line in connectors and . The status indicators may indicate for example whether the audio basestation is powered on whether audio data is being received by the basestation via connectors and or what type of audio data e.g. Dolby Digital is being received by the basestation .

The radio comprises suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to communicate in accordance with one or more standardized such as the IEEE 802.11 family of standards the Bluetooth family of standards NFC and or the like and or proprietary e.g. proprietary protocol for receiving audio protocols for receiving audio from a console such as the console wireless protocols.

The radio comprises suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to communicate in accordance with one or more standardized such as for example the IEEE 802.11 family of standards the Bluetooth family of standards and or the like and or proprietary wireless protocol s e.g. a proprietary protocol for transmitting audio to the headphones .

The CPU comprises suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to execute instructions for controlling coordinating the overall operation of the audio basestation . Such instructions may be part of an operating system or state machine of the audio basestation and or part of one or more software applications running on the audio basestation . In some implementations the CPU may be for example a programmable interrupt controller a state machine or the like.

The storage may comprise for example FLASH or other nonvolatile memory for storing data which may be used by the CPU and or the audio processing circuitry . Such data may include for example parameter settings that affect processing of audio signals in the basestation . For example one or more parameter settings may determine at least in part a gain of one or more gain elements of the audio processing circuitry . As another example one or more parameter settings may determine at least in part a frequency response of one or more filters that operate on audio signals in the audio processing circuitry . As another example one or more parameter settings may determine at least in part whether and which sound effects are added to audio signals in the audio processing circuitry e.g. which effects to add to microphone audio to morph the user s voice . Example parameter settings which affect audio processing are described in the co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 040 144 titled Gaming Headset with Programmable Audio and published as US2012 0014553 the entirety of which is hereby incorporated herein by reference. Particular parameter settings may be selected autonomously by the basestation in accordance with one or more algorithms based on user input e.g. via controls and or based on input received via one or more of the connectors and .

The memory may comprise volatile memory used by the CPU and or audio processing circuit as program memory for storing runtime data etc.

The audio processing circuit may comprise suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to perform audio processing functions such as volume gain control compression decompression encoding decoding introduction of audio effects e.g. echo phasing virtual surround effect etc. and or the like. As described above the processing performed by the audio processing circuit may be determined at least in part by which parameter settings have been selected. The processing may be performed on game and or chat audio signals that are subsequently output to a device e.g. headset in communication with the basestation . Additionally or alternatively the processing may be performed on a microphone audio signal that is subsequently output to a device e.g. console in communication with the basestation .

The application processor comprises suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to execute instructions for controlling coordinating the overall operation of the multi purpose device as well as graphics processing functions of the multi purpose device . Such instructions may be part of an operating system of the console and or part of one or more software applications running on the console.

The memory subsystem comprises volatile memory for storing runtime data nonvolatile memory for mass storage and long term storage and or a memory controller which controls reads writes to memory.

The cellular GPS networking subsystem comprises suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to perform baseband processing and analog RF processing for transmission and reception of cellular and GPS signals.

The sensors comprise for example a camera a gyroscope an accelerometer a biometric sensor and or the like.

The power management subsystem comprises suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to manage distribution of power among the various components of the multi purpose device .

The LAN subsystem comprises suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to perform baseband processing and analog RF processing for transmission and reception of cellular and GPS signals.

The bus adaptor comprises suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable for interfacing one or more internal data busses of the multi purpose device with an external bus e.g. a Universal Serial Bus for transferring data to from the multi purpose device via a wired connection.

The user interface subsystem comprises suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to control and relay signals to from a touchscreen hard buttons and or other input devices of the multi purpose device .

The audio processor comprises suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to process e.g. digital to analog conversion analog to digital conversion compression decompression encryption decryption resampling etc. audio signals. The audio processor may be operable to receive and or output signals via a connector such as a 3.5 mm stereo and microphone connector.

The game console may comprise suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to present a game to and also enable game play interaction between one or more local players and or one or more remote players. The game console may be substantially similar to the game console which is shown and described with respect to . The game console may be operable to generate output video signals for a game over a video channel and output corresponding audio signals for the game over one or more of a plurality of audio channels. Exemplary audio channels may comprise a center CTR channel a front right FR channel a front left FL channel a rear right RR channel a rear left RL channel a side right SR channel and a side left SL channel. The video generated from the game console during game play may be communicated to the monitor to be displayed by the monitor . In some embodiments of the disclosure the game console may be operable to adjust sensitivity of the game controller for a game being played on the console and displayed on the monitor . In some embodiments of the disclosure the game console may be operable to receive game controller sensitivity information from the headset and communicate the received game controller sensitivity information for the game play to the game controller .

The monitor may comprise suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to display corresponding audio and video that may be received from the game console for the game during game play. The monitor may comprise a television TV computer monitor laptop display and so on.

The headset may comprise suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to receive the plurality of channels of game and or chat audio. The headset may be substantially similar to the headset which is shown and described with respect to . The headset may be operable to monitor and analyze the audio in order to determine characteristics of the sounds on the monitored channels and adjust sensitivity of the game controller based on the determined characteristics of the audio. Exemplary characteristics may comprise directionality pitch tone frequency of occurrence and or intensity.

The external storage device may comprise one or more suitable devices having suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to store audio information and or game controller sensitivity information for a game. The audio information and or game controller sensitivity information may be stored in for example the sounds database . The audio information and or game controller sensitivity information may be utilized to control sensitivity of the game controller based on characteristics of the analyzed audio signals. The stored audio information and or game controller sensitivity information in the sounds database may be transferred from the external storage device to the sounds database in the internal storage device and be utilized to control sensitivity of the game controller during game play.

The audio processor may comprise suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to monitor the plurality channels of game and or chat audio. The audio processor may be substantially similar to the audio processing circuit which is shown and described with respect to . The audio processor may be operable to utilize signal analysis to determine the characteristics of sounds in the monitored plurality of audio channels. In instances when the audio processor detects certain sounds and or characteristics the audio processor may be operable to cause the sensitivity controller to communicate game controller sensitivity information to the controller sensitivity module . The game controller sensitivity information may be communicated via the link or via the links and . In some embodiments of the disclosure the basestation may be operable to provide connectivity between the headset the game console and the game controller . In this regard the basestation may be operable to communicate game controller sensitivity information from the game headset to the game controller .

The internal storage device may comprise one or more suitable devices that may comprise suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to store audio information and or game controller sensitivity information for a game. The internal storage device may be substantially similar to the storage device which is shown and described with respect to . The audio information and or game controller sensitivity information may be stored in for example the sounds database . The audio information and or game controller sensitivity information for a particular game may be downloaded from the sounds database which is in the external storage device by the headset via for example a wireless connection. The downloaded audio information and or game controller sensitivity information may be stored in the sounds database which is in the internal storage device . The audio information and or game controller sensitivity information may be retrieved from the internal storage device when a game is initiated.

The CPU may comprise suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to execute instructions for controlling managing and or coordinating the overall operation of the headset . In this regard the CPU may be operable to control manage and coordinate operation of the components in the headset which comprises the audio processor the internal storage device the sensitivity controller the radio and the sounds database . The CPU may also be operable to coordinate and manage operations between the headset the game console and the external storage device . The CPU may also be operable to coordinate and manage operations for the sounds database and the sounds database . The CPU may be substantially similar to the CPU which is shown and described with respect to for example . In an exemplary embodiment of the disclosure the CPU may be operable to control the headset to adjust sensitivity of the game controller .

The sensitivity controller may comprise suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to determine how the game controller should be adjusted based on the characteristics of the sounds that are detected within the monitored channels by the audio processor . The CPU and or the sensitivity controller may be operable to utilize audio information and or game controller sensitivity information that is stored in the sounds database to determine how the sensitivity of the game controller should be adjusted. In accordance with an embodiment of the disclosure the CPU and or the sensitivity controller may be operable to utilize the determined characteristics of the detected sound to extract game controller sensitivity information from the sounds database

In an exemplary embodiment of the disclosure in instances when the audio processor detects sounds whose characteristics in the FR C and FL channels indicate that the source of the sounds is moving quickly across a field of vision of the listener s game character the sensitivity controller may be operable to generate game controller sensitivity information that may be communicated to the controller sensitivity module . The game controller sensitivity module may be operable to utilize the received game controller sensitivity information to increase the sensitivity of the game controller so that the player can track the quick moving sound source. In some embodiments of the disclosure as the characteristics of the detected sound changed based on the results of the audio analysis the CPU and or the sensitivity controller may be operable to dynamically and or adaptively adjust the sensitivity of the game controller .

In an exemplary embodiment of the disclosure in instances when the audio processor detects sounds whose characteristics in the FR C and FL channels indicate that the source of the sounds is moving slowly across a field of vision of the listener s game character the sensitivity controller may be operable to generate game controller sensitivity information that may be communicated to the controller sensitivity module . The game controller sensitivity module may be operable to utilize the received game controller sensitivity information to decrease the sensitivity of the game controller so that the player can precisely track the slow moving sound source.

The radio may comprise suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to communicate game controller sensitivity information between the headset and the game console and or between the headset and the game controller . The radio may be substantially similar to the radio which is shown and described with respect to for example . In accordance with an embodiment of the disclosure the headset may be operable to utilize the radio to communicate game controller sensitivity information from the sensitivity controller to the game controller via the communication link and or to the game console via the communication link . In instances where the game controller sensitivity information is communicated from the sensitivity controller to the game console the game console may be operable to communicate the received game controller sensitivity information to the controller sensitivity module which may adjust the sensitivity of the game controller accordingly.

The game controller may comprise suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may enable a player to engage in game play and manipulate the listener s main character. In this regard the game controller may be operable to communicate with the headset via the communication link in order to control information as well as game controller sensitivity information.

The controller sensitivity module may comprise suitable logic interfaces and or code that may enable the game controller to receive game controller sensitivity information from the sensitivity controller in the headset . In an exemplary embodiment of the disclosure the controller sensitivity module may be operable to communicate with the sensitivity controller in order to acquire game controller sensitivity information for sounds that are detected by the audio processor during the game play. The controller sensitivity module may be enabled to utilize the received game controller sensitivity information to adjust the sensitivity of the game controller during the game play. The controller sensitivity module may also be operable to dynamically receive updated game controller sensitivity information for detected sounds from the sensitivity controller and accordingly update the corresponding sensitivity of the game controller .

In operation the audio processor may be operable to monitor the plurality of channels of game and or chat audio from the game console . In this regard the audio processor may be operable to perform signal analysis on each of the plurality of received audio channels to determine the characteristics of sounds in the game and or chat audio. The sensitivity controller may be operable to determine game controller sensitivity information that may be utilized to adjust the game controller to a particular level of sensitivity based on the detected characteristics and based on information in the sounds database . The sensitivity controller may be operable to communicate the game controller sensitivity information to the controller sensitivity module via for example the communication link . The controller sensitivity module may adjust the sensitivity of the game controller based on the game controller sensitivity information that is received from the controller sensitivity module . The headset may also be operable to communicate the game controller sensitivity information from the sensitivity controller to the game console via for example the communication link . The game console may be operable to communicate the game controller sensitivity information that is received from the sensitivity controller to the controller sensitivity module via the communication link . In some embodiments of the disclosure the basestation may be operable to communicate game controller sensitivity information from the game headset to the game controller .

An electronic device e.g. headset and or basestation may receive a plurality of channels of game and or chat audio during play of a game. The electronic device may detect one or more sounds on one or more of the audio channels during the monitoring of the plurality of audio channels. The electronic device may control based on the detected one or more sounds operation of a game controller e.g. that interacts with the game during play. The controlling of the operation of the game controller may comprise adjusting sensitivity of the game controller. The electronic device may determine directionality of the detected one or more sounds and adjust the sensitivity of the game controller based on the determined directionality of the detected one or more sounds. The electronic device may increase and or decrease the sensitivity of the game controller in response to changes in the determined directionality of the detected one or more sounds. The electronic device may perform signal analysis on the plurality of channels. The electronic device may determine characteristics of the detected one or more sounds based on the signal analysis. The electronic device may adjust the sensitivity of the game controller based on the determined characteristics of the detected one or more sounds. The electronic device may increase and or decrease the sensitivity of the game controller in response to changes in the determined characteristics of the detected one or more sounds. The electronic device may perform the increase and or decrease of the sensitivity of the game controller dynamically e.g. during game play while concurrently processing audio and or adaptively e.g. based on feedback such as from the game controller and or the game console e.g. on which the game is being played .

As utilized herein the terms circuits and circuitry refer to physical electronic components i.e. hardware and any software and or firmware code which may configure the hardware be executed by the hardware and or otherwise be associated with the hardware. As used herein for example a particular processor and memory may comprise a first circuit when executing a first one or more lines of code and may comprise a second circuit when executing a second one or more lines of code. As utilized herein and or means any one or more of the items in the list joined by and or . As an example x and or y means any element of the three element set x y x y . As another example x y and or z means any element of the seven element set x y z x y x z y z x y z . As utilized herein the terms e.g. and for example set off lists of one or more non limiting examples instances or illustrations. As utilized herein circuitry is operable to perform a function whenever the circuitry comprises the necessary hardware and code if any is necessary to perform the function regardless of whether performance of the function is disabled or not enabled by some user configurable setting.

Throughout this disclosure the use of the terms dynamically and or adaptively with respect to an operation means that for example parameters for configurations for and or execution of the operation may be configured or reconfigured during run time e.g. in or near real time based on newly received or updated information or data. For example an operation within a transmitter and or a receiver may be configured or reconfigured based on for example current recently received and or updated signals information and or data.

The present method and or system may be realized in hardware software or a combination of hardware and software. The present methods and or systems may be realized in a centralized fashion in at least one computing system or in a distributed fashion where different elements are spread across several interconnected computing systems. Any kind of computing system or other apparatus adapted for carrying out the methods described herein is suited. A typical combination of hardware and software may be a general purpose computing system with a program or other code that when being loaded and executed controls the computing system such that it carries out the methods described herein. Another typical implementation may comprise an application specific integrated circuit or chip. Some implementations may comprise a non transitory machine readable e.g. computer readable medium e.g. FLASH drive optical disk magnetic storage disk or the like having stored thereon one or more lines of code executable by a machine thereby causing the machine to perform processes as described herein.

While the present method and or system has been described with reference to certain implementations it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes may be made and equivalents may be substituted without departing from the scope of the present method and or system. In addition many modifications may be made to adapt a particular situation or material to the teachings of the present disclosure without departing from its scope. Therefore it is intended that the present method and or system not be limited to the particular implementations disclosed but that the present method and or system will include all implementations falling within the scope of the appended claims.

