---

title: Billing engine and method of use
abstract: A wireless communication device associated with a mobile operator network transmits an authentication request for network access via a wireless access point (AP) using a transceiver other than the cellular network transceiver. Device authentication can occur directly with the mobile operator network via a proxy server or using a stand-alone authentication system that is not part of the mobile operator network. Upon authentication, the requesting device may access a wide area network in a data off-load operational mode and the data flow to and from the device via the AP is monitored and reported to mobile operator network associated with the requesting device. The wireless communication device can communicate with any of a plurality of APs distributed in a venue during the data off-load operational mode.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09439071&OS=09439071&RS=09439071
owner: Mobilitie, LLC
number: 09439071
owner_city: Newport Beach
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150507
---
This application is a continuation in part of U.S. application Ser. No. 13 363 943 filed on Feb. 1 2012 which is a continuation in part of U.S. application Ser. No. 13 093 998 filed on Apr. 26 2011 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 995 923 which is a continuation in part of U.S. application Ser. No. 12 958 296 filed on Dec. 1 2010 which is a continuation in part of U.S. application Ser. No. 12 616 958 filed on Nov. 12 2009 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 190 119 which is a continuation in part of U.S. application Ser. No. 12 397 225 filed on Mar. 3 2009 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 970 351 the entire disclosures and content of which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety.

The present invention is directed generally to wireless communication devices and more particularly to a system and method of network management to permit the dynamic measurement of data utilization by wireless communication devices.

Wireless communication networks have become commonplace. A vast array of base stations is provided by a number of different wireless service providers. Wireless communication devices such as cell phones personal communication system PCS devices personal digital assistant PDA devices and web enabled wireless devices communicate with the various base stations using one or more known communication protocols. While early cell phone devices were limited to analog operation and voice only communication modern wireless devices use digital signal protocols and have sufficient bandwidth to enable the transfer of voice signals image data and even video streaming. In addition web enabled devices provide network access such as Internet access.

The individual wireless communication devices communicate with one or more base stations. Even when two wireless communication devices are located a few feet from each other there is no direct communication between the wireless devices. That is the wireless devices communicate with each other via one or more base stations and other elements of the wireless communication network.

In some situations mobile operator networks may off load communication so that the wireless communication devices communicate with the mobile operator network via a wireless access point. Data exchanges i.e. uploads and downloads with a wireless communication device are not tracked when using a wireless access point.

Therefore it can be appreciated that there is a need for a system that can track data utilization of a wireless communication device whether the device is connected to the mobile provider network via cell sites or via a wireless access point. The present invention provides this and other advantages as will be apparent from the following detailed description and accompanying figures.

The system described herein extends the normal operational features of conventional wireless communication devices to track data utilization of each wireless communication device. As described above the conventional wireless communication device communicates with a wireless communication network base station using a first transceiver i.e. a network transceiver . The extended capabilities described herein provide a second transceiver device that allows wireless communication devices to communicate with the mobile operator network via a wireless access point AP . As will be described in greater detail below the system and method described herein permit the mobile operator network to track data utilization by each wireless communication device coupled to the mobile operator network via an AP.

The wireless communication devices are illustrated as part of a system illustrated in the system architecture in . Portions of the system are conventional wireless network components that will be described briefly herein. The non network communication capability which may be referred to herein as a jump enabled device or a jump device will be described in greater detail below. A conventional wireless communication network includes a base station . Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the typical wireless communication network will include a large number of base stations . However for the sake of brevity and clarity in understanding the present invention illustrates only a single base station .

The base station is coupled to a base station controller BSC . In turn the BSC is coupled to a gateway . The BSC may also be coupled to a mobile switching center not shown or other conventional wireless communication network element. The gateway provides access to a network . The network may be a private core network of the wireless communication network or may be a wide area public network such as the Internet. In a user computing device is illustrated as coupled to the network .

For the sake of brevity a number of conventional network components of the wireless communication network are omitted. The particular network components may vary depending on the implementation of the wireless communication network e.g. CDMA vs. GSM . However these elements are known in the art and need not be described in greater detail herein.

Also illustrated in are wireless communication devices . The wireless communication devices are illustrative of many different types of conventional wireless communication devices capable of communicating with the base station or other base stations not shown in the wireless communication network . Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the wireless communication network may communicate using a variety of different signaling protocols. For example the system may be successfully implemented using by way of example CDMA WCDMA GSM UMTS 3G 4G LTE and the like. The system is not limited by any specific communication protocol for the wireless communication network .

As illustrated in the wireless communication device communicates with the base station via a wireless network communication link . Similarly the wireless communication device communicates with the base station via a wireless network communication link . Each of the wireless communication devices illustrated in e.g. the wireless communication devices contain a conventional transmitter receiver or transceiver components to permit conventional communication with the wireless communication network via the base station or other base station not shown . Operational details of conventional network communication are known in the art and need not be described in greater detail herein.

In addition to the conventional network transceiver components the wireless communication devices illustrated in e.g. the wireless communication devices also include a second short range transceiver to allow direct communication between the devices. This short range communication is accomplished without reliance on the wireless communication network . Indeed as will be described in greater detail below the short range transceivers in the mobile communication devices permit the dynamic formation of a short range communication network that does not rely on the wireless communication network provided by any wireless service provider. Thus wireless communication devices can rely on the conventional wireless communication network for some communications but may also be part of the short range communication network formed between the mobile devices themselves. In the example of the wireless communication device communicates with the base station via the wireless network communication link . Similarly the wireless communication device communicates with the base station via the network wireless communication link . However in addition the wireless communication devices and may communicate directly with each other via a short range communication link .

As illustrated in the wireless communication device is not in communication with the wireless communication network . However the wireless communication device can communicate directly with the wireless communication device via a short range wireless communication link .

The dynamic formation of one or more short range networks allows communication between the wireless communications devices independent of the wireless communication network even if the wireless communication network is present and operational. The short range communication network advantageously allows communication in settings where the wireless communication network is not present or in a situation where the wireless communication network is unavailable. For example the wireless communication network may be unavailable during a power outage or an emergency situation such as a fire civil emergency or the like. In contrast the short range communication network does not rely on any infrastructure such as cell towers base stations and the like. As will be described in greater detail below the short range communication network may be extended as jump enabled wireless communication devices move throughout a geographic location.

The wireless communication device in also contains a memory . In general the memory stores instructions and data to control operation of the CPU . The memory may include random access memory ready only memory programmable memory flash memory and the like. The wireless communication device is not limited by any specific form of hardware used to implement the memory . The memory may also be integrally formed in whole or in part with the CPU .

The wireless communication device of also includes conventional components such as a display and a keypad or keyboard . These are conventional components that operate in a known manner and need not be described in greater detail. Other conventional components found in wireless communication devices such as a USB interface Bluetooth interface camera video device infrared device and the like may also be included in the wireless communication device . For the sake of clarity these conventional elements are not illustrated in the functional block diagram of .

The wireless communication device of also includes a network transmitter such as may be used by the wireless communication device for the conventional wireless communication network with the base station see . also illustrates a network receiver that operates in conjunction with the network transmitter to communicate with the base station . In a typical embodiment the network transmitter and network receiver share circuitry and are implemented as a network transceiver . The network transceiver is connected to an antenna . The network transceiver is illustrated as a generic transceiver. As previously noted the mobile communication devices e.g. the mobile communication devices may be implemented in accordance with any known wireless communication protocol including but not limited to CDMA WCDMA GSM UMTS 3G 4G WiMAX LTE or the like. Operation of the network transceiver and the antenna for communication with the wireless communication network is well known in the art and need not be described in greater detail herein.

The wireless communication device of also includes a short range transmitter that is used by the wireless communication device for direct communication with other jump enabled wireless communication devices e.g. the wireless communication device of . also illustrates a short range receiver that operates in conjunction with the short range transmitter to communicate directly with other jump enabled wireless communication devices e.g. the wireless communication device of . In a typical embodiment the short range transmitter and short range receiver are implemented as a short range transceiver . The short range transceiver is connected to an antenna . In an exemplary embodiment the antennas and may have common components are implemented as a single antenna.

In addition wireless communication device of also includes a connection manager which may be implemented as an application program or an application programming interface API . Those skilled in the art will appreciate that operation of an application program is typically initiated by a user of the device while an API becomes part of the operating system and is always running. In an exemplary embodiment the connection manager configures the controller to search for and automatically without human intervention connect with selected APs such the AP in or the APs in and the modem router in . The connection manager may also designate primary and secondary APs where connection with a primary AP is preferable and connection to a secondary AP is performed if a primary AP is not available. The software implementing the connection manager can be loaded into the wireless communication device by a number of alternative techniques. In one implementation the API can be installed by the manufacturer at the time of manufacture or loaded onto the wireless communication device by the carrier. Alternatively the connection manager may be downloaded as an application from an application store hosted by the device manufacturer wireless service provider or the like.

The various components illustrated in are coupled together by a bus system . The bus system may include an address bus data bus power bus control bus and the like. For the sake of convenience the various busses in are illustrated as the bus system .

In one embodiment when the jump enabled wireless communication device comes within range of any other jump enabled wireless communication device e.g. the wireless communication device of it establishes a short range wireless communication link e.g. the short range wireless communication link .

In an exemplary embodiment the short range transceiver may be designed for operation in accordance with IEEE standard 802.11 sometimes referred to as WiFi. Many modern wireless communication devices are equipped with WiFi and may be readily upgraded to support the functionality described herein. Because the wireless communication devices all include WiFi capability short range communication networks may be formed even though the wireless communication devices may be designed to operate with incompatible wireless communication networks . For example the wireless communication device may be configured for operation with a GSM implementation of the wireless communication network . The wireless communication device may be configured for operation with a CDMA implementation of a wireless communication network . Even though the wireless communication devices are incompatible with respect to the respective wireless communication networks the wireless communication devices may still communicate directly with each other via the short range communication network . Thus the wireless communication devices may operate compatibly to form the short range communication networks even though the network transceivers see may operate with different incompatible wireless communication networks .

Various techniques for establishing the short range communication network see are described in U.S. application Ser. No. 12 397 225 filed on Mar. 3 2009 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 970 351 U.S. application Ser. No. 12 616 958 filed on Nov. 12 2009 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 190 119 U.S. application Ser. No. 12 958 296 filed on Dec. 1 2010 and U.S. application Ser. No. 13 093 988 filed on Apr. 26 2011 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 995 923 the entire disclosures and content of which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety.

As will be discussed in greater detail below the system goes beyond some of the conventional operation of WiFi standards to permit a large number of wireless communication devices to communicate directly with each other. In one embodiment a local hot spot is used to initiate the formation of the short range communication network . Once established the short range communication network may continue to exist even if the hot spot or group owner is no longer present. In yet another alternative embodiment described below the wireless communication devices may be pre programmed to utilize a common SSID IP range and port to spontaneously form a short range communication network even in the absence of any hot spot.

In an exemplary embodiment of the system each wireless communication device e.g. the wireless communication devices transmits a beacon signal with the same SSID such as the SSID JUMMMP to identify the device as a jump enabled wireless communication device. In addition the beacon frame includes several other data fields such as a media access layer MAC address for source and destination. In the beacon frame the destination MAC address is set to all ones to force other wireless communication devices to receive and process the beacon frame. The beacon frame used in the system may also include conventional elements such as a time stamp used for synchronization with other wireless devices information on supported data rates parameter sets that indicate for example transceiver operational parameters such as the IEEE 802.11 channel number and signaling method such as operation at the physical layer PHY and operation in a direct frequency spectrum DSSS or a frequency hopping spread spectrum FHSS operational modes. These conventional WiFi parameters are known in the art and need not be described in greater detail herein.

In addition since there is no access point all jump enabled wireless communication devices take on the responsibilities of the MAC layer that controls manages and maintains the communication between the jump enabled wireless communication devices by coordinating access to the shared radio channel and the protocols that operate over the wireless medium. In an exemplary embodiment the MAC is implemented in accordance with IEEE 802.2. At the PHY layer the transceiver may operate in a DSSS or a FHSS operational mode. Alternatively the PHY layer may be implemented using infrared transceivers. The IEEE 802.11 standard defines a common operation whether devices are using the ad hoc or the infrastructure mode. The use of the ad hoc mode only affects protocols so there is no impact on the PHY layer. Thus the wireless communication device may operate under IEEE 802.11a at 5 gigahertz GHz under IEEE 802.11b g at 2.4 GHz or IEEE 802.11n which operates at both 2.4 GHz and 5 GHz. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the wireless communication device of the system may be readily adapted for operation with future versions of IEEE 802.11.

In an alternative embodiment the wireless communication devices may be configured in accordance with IEEE WiFi Direct standards. WiFi Direct allows any wireless communication device in the short range communication network to function as the group owner. WiFi Direct simplifies the process of establishing a communication link. For example the WiFi protected set up allows a communication link to be established by entering a PIN or other identification or simply pressing a button. As will be described herein the jump enabled wireless communication devices actively seek to establish links with other jump enabled devices to automatically establish a short range communication network .

In yet another alternative embodiment illustrated in the jump enabled wireless communication devices e.g. the wireless communication devices may communicate with an access point such as a WiFi base station WAP wireless router or the like. As will be described in greater detail below a wireless communication device e.g. one of the wireless communication devices may function as the access point to permit others of the wireless communication devices in the short range communication network to access the network via the wireless communication device serving as the access point. illustrates a wireless communication link established between the access point and the wireless communication device . Similarly the wireless communication device establishes a wireless communication link with the access point . Thus a short range communication network is formed in conjunction with the access point . To assist in a better understanding of the present disclosure short range communication networks will be generally referred to by the reference . Specific examples of short range communication networks will be referred to by the reference and an alphabetic identifier e.g. the short range communication network in .

Depending on the physical proximity of the wireless communication devices there may be one or more short range communication networks formed. In the example of the wireless communication devices are both within range of the access point . Therefore the first short range communication network can be formed with the wireless communication devices and the access point .

The wireless communication device is within range of the wireless communication device but is not within range of the access point . In one embodiment the wireless communication device may be become part of the short range communication network via the wireless communication device . In this embodiment the wireless communication device functions as a repeater or relay to relay information between the wireless communication device and other parts of the short range communication network . In another embodiment a second short range communication network is formed with the wireless communication devices . In this exemplary embodiment the wireless communication device is part of both short range communication networks . The wireless communication device may simultaneously be a member of both short range communication networks or may be logically connected to both short range communication networks by alternately switching between the short range communication networks 

The access point is coupled to the network in a conventional manner. This can include a wired or wireless connection directly to the network or via an intermediate network gateway such as those provided by an Internet Service Provider ISP . also illustrates a JUMMMP Network website which may support an individual web page for each member e.g. an individual person business organization etc. of the JUMMMP Network. also illustrates a generic conventional social network website which may support an individual web page for each member of the social network. The JUMMMP network website and social network website are each coupled to the network . Although illustrated in as two separate network websites those skilled in the art will appreciate that the JUMMMP website effectively functions as a social network website. Similarly the JUMMMP website technology can be incorporated into existing social network websites. Thus the two separate websites illustrated in can effectively be combined into a single website.

As discussed in detail in co pending U.S. application Ser. No. 12 616 958 filed on Nov. 12 2009 and assigned to the assignee of the present application the user of a jump enabled wireless communication device e.g. the wireless device may use the web browsing capability of the wireless communication device to access the individual jump web page for the individual with whom contact has just been made to learn more about that individual. Alternatively the user of a jump enabled wireless communication device e.g. the wireless device may use the web browsing capability of the wireless communication device to access the user s own individual jump web page to store information for the individual with whom contact has just been made. A contact list which is typically a portion of the individual jump web page is configured to store contact information. Similarly the individual jump web page of the social network can include a contact list to store contact information. In one embodiment the contact information may include a user profile exchanged along with individual messages between users. As will be discussed in greater detail below the user profile can include user name and preferences as well as information about the specific exchange of messages. For example the user profile can include the date and time at which messages were exchanged geo location data e.g. latitude and longitude of the sender of a message and the like and can also be stored as user profile data in the contact list . Applications for the profile data are described in greater detail below.

In an alternative embodiment access to the network may be provided via another jump enabled wireless communication device. For example in the wireless communication device can communicate with the base station via the wireless communication link while the wireless communication device cannot communicate directly with the base station. However the wireless communication device is in proximity with the wireless communication device and can communicate with the wireless communication device via the wireless communication link as part of the short range communication network . In this embodiment the wireless communication device can use the wireless communication device as a repeater or relay to allow the wireless communication device to access the network via the wireless communication device and the base station .

Similarly in the embodiment of the wireless communication devices can communicate directly with the access point via the wireless communication links respectively. The wireless communication devices can also communicate with each other via the access point thus forming the short range communication network . As seen in the wireless communication device cannot communicate directly with the access point . However the wireless communication device is in proximity with the wireless communication device and can communicate with the network via the wireless communication device and the access point .

In another example application of the system a business may utilize the short range communication networks to disseminate business information in the form of messages coupons advertisements and the like. In addition a wireless communication device may communicate with multiple vendors within a particular venue and receive information that varies from one venue to another. This is illustrated in . In wireless communication devices are referred to generically as user equipment UE . The term UE is intended to include any wireless communication device capable of processing audio video and text messaging. This includes smart phones laptops PDAs computer tablets e.g. an iPad and the like.

As will be described in greater detail below the server may control the flow of data to and from the UE via the AP and or the AP . Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the APs e.g. the AP can be implemented in a variety of fashions. In one embodiment the AP may be directly coupled to a service provider. For example the AP may be implemented as a cable modem with a wireless connectivity for the UE . In another embodiment the AP may be coupled to a computer not shown which controls operation of the AP as well as controlling communications with the network . In this embodiment the network may be a wide area network such as the internet.

In addition to the various wireless communication links between the UE and the RAN and or the AP the UE can establish a wireless communication link with the UE . The wireless communication link is established using the short range transceiver see thus permitting the UE and to establish the short range communication network . The short range communication network in operates in a manner described above.

In the example of the AP and AP may be access points for different businesses. As the UE moves within range of the AP the wireless communication link is established and the AP may disseminate business information such as messages coupons advertisements and the like. Similarly when the UE moves within range of the AP the wireless communication link is established and the UE may receive business information from the AP . In the example of some or all of the information received from the AP via the wireless communication link may be relayed from the UE to the UE via the wireless communication link . Thus information from the business associated with the AP may be disseminated to other UEs the UE in via the short range communication network . As discussed above a wireless communication device e.g. the wireless communication device in may serve as a hot spot in a short range communication network . However in some settings such as the shopping mall example illustrated in there is generally sufficient coverage provided by the APs spread throughout the shopping mall. Thus the short range communication networks may typically be established using an AP such as the AP in or any of the APs shown in . As will be discussed in greater detail below a verification system can be used to assure the authenticity of the information received by the UE from the AP and the AP .

In the UE has established wireless communication inks with the APs respectively. As noted above these APs may be in a large business. As the user moves from one department to another or from one store level to another he may move in or out of range of one AP or the other. Thus the information provided to the UE may be customized for the user based on the user s current location within the business.

Due to the large size of the venue it may be necessary to deploy a network of APs illustrated by the reference number . The position and coverage area of the APs can be determined based on the particular hardware implementation. The actual distribution and installation of the APs within the venue is within the engineering knowledge of one skilled in the art and need not be described in greater detail herein.

In the embodiment of all of the APs may be coupled to a server e.g. the server in or a gateway see . As the UE moves throughout the venue it is making and breaking wireless communication devices with one or more of the APs . The identity of the UE can be verified by the UE providing a profile and user information and signing up for the WiFi service and downloading the API in exchange for free WiFi service. Initially this may be accomplished through a portal page as will be described in greater detail below.

Once the identity of the UE has been verified the server can provide customized messages to the owner of the UE . While the UE remains within the venue it is in substantially continuous contact with the APs and may receive data therefrom. For example the UE could receive an ad for free or discounted tickets to the performance venue or an invitation to happy hour at the nightclub venue or a discounted meal at the restaurant venue . If the owner of a UE is not a registered guest at a hotel within the venue the APs could send an invitation or ad to book a room in the venue . The UE can communicate with the server via the APs to accept one or more of the ad offers. For example the UE could transmit an acceptance and book tickets at the performance venue . Similarly the user of the UE can book a room in the venue .

The venue can establish virtually continuous wireless communication links with the UE and provide a stream of ad content e.g. ads offers discounts etc. for the venue and the related businesses . Thus the stream of ad data to the UE may be for the venue and the related businesses . Alternatively the venue may provide advertising for a different venue not shown . For example if the venue is a casino in a large city such as Las Vegas the server may provide ad content for a related business down the street or even for a third party business with whom the venue has contracted to provide advertising to the UE . For example the AP may provide advertising for a convention at a different venue or for a boxing match at a different venue. Thus advertising content may or may not be related to the venue in which the UE is presently located.

Within the JUMMMP Cloud are a number of components. A web portal page and policy controller server controls user authentication across a number of different venues in addition to the venue . A network management element controls overall operation of the network in the JUMMMP Cloud . In one implementation the policy server controller can also include SaMOG GW S2 mobility over GTP functionality. GTP refers to a general packet radio service GPRS tunneling protocol for use with 3G 4G networks. The infrastructure provides tunneling to the policy server controller via the backhaul or an internet connection. This component provides evolved packet core EPC integration to a mobile operator network by acting as a trusted wireless gateway TWAG . This permits seamless transition between 3G 4G LTE and 802.11 radius as the UE session state is maintained during roaming. Accounting for UE traffic can then be broken down by mobile operator services e.g. WiFi calling and standard internet based traffic. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that SaMOG GW can be incorporated into other system architectures such as those illustrated in the sample embodiments of .

As will be discussed in greater detail below mobile service providers can implement differential service charges to customers for various services. For example WiFi calling may be billed to a customer at one rate while video conferencing or other services can be provided to customers at a different rate.

In addition to the log in web page the JUMMMP Cloud may have one or more interstitial web pages . For example interstitial web pages may display information about the venue or advertising for businesses within the venue third party advertising or advertising for other venues within the JUMMMP network while the user is waiting for completion of the registration verification process. In addition the JUMMMP Cloud may include one or more welcome web pages . The welcome web pages may offer various services such as a credit card data entry page and Internet access sign up page a voucher code entry page to permit the user to enter discount voucher data and the like. For example the initial registration can provide WiFi connectivity at a certain service level such as a basic bandwidth. However the welcome pages may include an offer to upgrade WiFi connectivity to a higher bandwidth for an advertised price. If the user is a guest at the venue the charge can be automatically made to the user s room. In another embodiment the user s phone may be charged for the upgraded bandwidth service. Other similar services may be provided in the welcome web pages .

One skilled in the art will appreciate that the interstitial web pages and the welcome web pages may be unique to the venue . Even though these web pages may be unique to the venue the centralized web portal page server within the JUMMMP Cloud simplifies the overall system architecture within the venue and within other venues by eliminating the need for a portal page server within each venue.

A local ad server in the JUMMMP Cloud may provide localized ads for multiple venues including the venue . As discussed above the ads may be for the venue itself or for the related businesses see . In addition the ads may be for businesses near the venue or for other venues in the JUMMMP network . The ad server in the JUMMMP Cloud simplifies the network architecture within the venue and other venues by eliminating the need for an ad server within each venue.

A data base server in the JUMMMP Cloud may be configured to collect a broad range of information regarding the UEs including the user profile information from the data storage area see that was provided when the UE was first identified in the venue. The profile information will help provide targeting marketing and advertising to the UE as it traverses the venue . As previously discussed data messages may include geo location data. The geo location data e.g. longitude and latitude can be obtained in several possible ways. In one embodiment the wireless communication device e.g. the UE in may have built in GPS. Other possible location determination technologies include WiFi 3G approximation triangulation or last known location of the user. Other known location technologies may also be implemented in the system . For example the UE will communicate with different ones of the access point in the venue shown in . As the UE moves throughout the venue new communication links are established with nearby access points . By identifying which access point the UE is communicating with it is possible to determine the location of the UE with a reasonable degree of accuracy. The database server is configured to store location information along with time date data to thereby track movements of the UE . In one embodiment the database server can also be configured to store message data from the UEs throughout the system . In yet another embodiment the database server may also store user profiles for the UE as well as profile data collected by the UE from other JUMMMP users. In one configuration the API which is installed on the UE as part of the initial registration process prior to entering the venue or as part of the verification process when the UE enters the venue is configured to generate a heartbeat signal that periodically reports location data back to the database server . The location data may include a time date stamp to provide location information for the UE . This information can be useful for marketing purposes. Using the example of where the casino venue includes a large area as well as related businesses the database server can determine how long the UE remains in a particular area e.g. one area of the casino how many times and how long the UE remains at the bar in a nightclub or the like. By collecting this information the database server can establish a user profile for the UE for marketing purposes.

The JUMMMP Cloud also includes an IP transfer point which is coupled to a mobile operator network via a communication link . As those skilled in the art will appreciate mobile data off loading also called data off loading involves the use of complementary network technologies for delivering data originally targeted for cellular networks such as the mobile operator network . In areas where the cellular network traffic is heavy network congestion may occur. To reduce congestion mobile network operators sometimes set up WiFi access points in areas of congestion and allow some of the data originally targeted for the mobile operator network to be carried by the WiFi network. Rules triggering the mobile off loading action can be set by an end user i.e. the mobile subscriber or the mobile network operator. The software code operating on the off loading rules can reside in the UE in a server or divided between these two devices. For the end users the purpose of mobile data off loading may be based on the cost for data service and the availability of higher bandwidth. For mobile network operators off loading can reduce congestion of the cellular network and improve coverage in areas such as building interiors. The primary complementary network technologies used for mobile data off loading are WiFi femtocells and integrated mobile broadcast.

In a typical embodiment each mobile network operator has its own WiFi network to off load data that would otherwise be carried on its particular mobile operator network. In the context of the APs within the venue do not belong to the operator of the mobile operator network as is normally the case in data off loading. In the implementation described in the present disclosure the data off loading is provided by the venue through contract with the mobile operator network . Although illustrates only a single mobile operator network those skilled in the art will appreciate that it is representative of one or more mobile operator networks. In operation each mobile operator network contracts with the venue either directly or with the JUMMMP Cloud to provide data off loading in the venue. When the UE enters the venue the mobile network operator is notified and the mobile operator network can determine whether or not to off load data traffic for that UE. If data off loading for the UE is approved in accordance with the rules described above Internet access text messaging and even telephone calls can be provided to the UE via a connection from the mobile operator network through the communication link to the IP transfer point within the JUMMMP Cloud . In turn that off loaded data is routed through the backhaul to an AP and ultimately to the UE . Similarly outgoing calls and data uploads from the UE may be routed in the reverse fashion. This approach has the beneficial effect of off loading traffic from an otherwise congested mobile operator network . In addition the mobile network operator may find improved performance because direct communication with the UE through a base station e.g. the base station in may not work well when the UE is inside a building such as the venue . Thus improved reception and reduction in network congestion are double benefits of the IP off loading provided by the JUMMMP Cloud .

The present disclosure provides a mechanism for tracking data utilization for any UEs that are sending or receiving off loaded data traffic. As will be described in greater detail below this tracking mechanism permits the mobile operator network to monetize the off loaded traffic by measuring and categorizing data usage i.e. unlimited data downloads pre paid charged or post paid charges . As described above the data off loading can ease the traffic burden over the existing mobile operator network and reduce roaming charges to the end user.

As noted above the policy server controller controls the authentication process across multiple venues. In the embodiment of the policy server controller may also function as a registration server to assure the authentication of the UE . Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the components shown in the JUMMMP Cloud are illustrated as individual elements. In one embodiment a single policy controller server may be sufficient for a large area such as the entire country. Indeed in one embodiments a single policy controller server may provide registration services for the entire system . However those skilled in the art will appreciate that the policy controller server may be illustrative of a number of different computing platforms designed to implement the functionality of the policy controller server. In one embodiment there may be a policy controller server for large cities individual states regions of the country or an entire country. In another embodiment the policy controller server may be implemented in a hierarchical fashion where a local or regional policy server controller contains local and regional data but may communicate with regional or national policy controller servers on a higher hierarchical level. For example if the UE performs an initial registration in one city that registration data may be stored in a local implementation of the policy controller server and reported to a regional or national level of the policy controller server. In this manner the registration data may be efficiently distributed throughout a wide area. As will be discussed in detail below this arrangement also facilitates easy subsequent authentication of the UE .

The UE must register with the system at some initial point in time. The initial registration can be performed remotely using by way of example a laptop or PC connected to the JUMMMP Cloud via the network . In another variation the UE can perform an initial registration as it enters the venue illustrated in . When the UE initially contacts one of the APs in the venue the policy controller server will not have any data related to that particular UE . In this case that initial AP in the venue may perform an initial registration. For the initial registration the UE can connect to the initial AP and provide identification information. In an exemplary embodiment the user can complete the initial registration process by providing data such as the telephone ID i.e. the phone number a device ID a user ID and an email address as well as other information such as the user profile in the data storage area see . The user ID may be a user generated name nickname or the like. The device ID may vary based on the particular type of the UE . For example if the UE utilizes an Android operating system the device will be assigned an Android ID. In addition the UE may typically be assigned an international mobile equipment identification IMEI . Any of these device identifications alone may be transmitted to the policy server controller . In another alternative embodiment a unique hash of one or more device IDs may be generated and transmitted to the policy server controller as the device ID. The short range transceiver see may also include an identification such as a MAC address that is unique to the UE . The registration data described above can be provided to the policy server controller along with the MAC address. The registration data may be stored in association with the MAC address. Registration refers to an initial process in which the UE provides identification data to the policy server controller . As previously described this can include identification data for the UE itself e.g. a MAC address IMEI or the like and user information e.g. user name password profile data and the like . As noted above the UE must perform the registration process at least once to provide the policy server controller with the necessary identification information. At subsequent times the UE is automatically authenticated when it comes within range of one of the APs within the venue . Authentication refers to a process in which a previously registered UE is automatically identified based on information provided by the UE during the authentication process and the retrieval of stored identification data stored within the JUMMMP Cloud see . Once the initial registration process has been completed subsequent authentications are greatly simplified. During authentication the web portal page server may transmit other pages such as the log in web page one or more interstitial web pages and the welcome web page shown in .

The UE can also perform the initial registration using a conventional wireless service provider network. As previously discussed the UE can communicate with the RAN see via the wireless communication link in a conventional manner. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the UE can access the network via the RAN . Conventional wireless service provider components such as a gateway to the network are known in the art but not illustrated in for the sake of clarity. In one embodiment the UE can perform a registration process with the policy server controller via the RAN . In this embodiment the UE accesses a website such as the JUMMMP network website illustrated in . In this example the policy server controller may be associated with the JUMMMP network website see or the JUMMMP Cloud of .

Alternatively the UE may perform an initial registration using a conventional computer e.g. the user computing device of to provide the registration data for the UE to the policy controller server . For example the user may make a reservation to visit a hotel such as the casino venue illustrated in . In a confirmation email from the hotel the user may be invited to perform a registration process with the policy server controller using by way of example a link to a registration web page.

If the UE registration occurs at the venue via an AP e.g. one of the APs in the policy control server knows the geographic locale of the UE . In this manner the UE knows that information such as messages coupons advertisements and the like are received from valid and registered businesses.

In one embodiment a previously registered UE may come within range of the initial AP in the venue of and establish a wireless communication link therewith. In establishing the communication link the UE transmits its identification data e.g. MAC address and or the phone ID or IMEI or the like . The AP transmits an authentication request message to the policy server controller to determine whether the UE is a registered device. Based on the identification data automatically provided by the UE to the AP and the user information already stored in the JUMMMP Cloud the policy server controller can confirm that the UE has previously registered. Thus the UE is authenticated whenever it comes into range of an AP of the system . This may occur transparently to the user. This automatic authentication process can occur even if the initial registration was in a completely different part of the country. Thus the UE may move from one venue to another in the same city or region or may be in a completely different part of the country and be automatically identified and authenticated with APs that are part of the system described herein. This convenient registration and authentication avoids the need for constantly searching for a WiFi connection as required by other systems. Based on this automatic authentication process the UE may be automatically connected to the WiFi network created by the APs in the venue. The UE may get welcome greetings from the venue and may also receive advertising offers discounts and the like.

The registration process at a single venue has been discussed above with respect to . The JUMMMP Cloud also advantageously provides a centralized registration function for multiple venues as illustrated in . The multiple venues are each connected to the JUMMMP Cloud via individual respective backhauls . If a UE initially registers at Venue using the registration process described above that registration information is stored in the JUMMMP Cloud . At a later point in time when the user enters by way of example Venue illustrated in the UE will automatically identify the AP and begin to communicate therewith. Because the UE has already been registered that information is passed along to the JUMMMP Cloud and the UE is automatically authenticated. This is true even if the various venues are located far from one another. For example an initial registration of the UE may take place at a sports venue in by way of example New York City. However if the UE is carried to a casino in by way of example Las Vegas Nev. the UE will automatically begin to communicate with the AP in the new venue in Las Vegas. Because each venue is coupled to the JUMMMP Cloud the UE need not undergo another registration process when it enters the venue in Las Vegas. Thus a single registration process at any venue is sufficient for registration with the JUMMMP Cloud . Whenever the UE goes into a different venue that is coupled to the JUMMMP Cloud the UE is automatically recognized and authenticated. During the automatic authentication process the JUMMMP Cloud may provide interstitial portal pages to the UE . Upon completion of the automatic registration process welcome portal pages may then be transmitted to the UE .

The LAN is coupled to a content firewall server . The content server serves as an interface between the venue and the network such as the Internet. Data uploads from the UEs as well as downloads from the network to the UEs are routed through the LAN . The data traffic uplink and downlink may flow on the communication link .

As previously discussed the system can also accommodate voice traffic off loading from the mobile operator networks. In the embodiment illustrated in voice traffic off load from the mobile operator network is transferred through the IP transfer point within the JUMMMP Cloud . In the embodiment illustrated in voice traffic off load may utilize the network . Each mobile operator network can off load voice data traffic from the mobile operator network to the network via communication links . In turn the traffic both voice traffic and data traffic may be transferred to the content server via the communication link .

To accommodate data off loading it is necessary to uniquely identify the UE and determine which mobile operator network is the service provider for a particular UE. It is also necessary to perform an authentication process to assure the identity of the UE and that it is authorized to operate in an off load operational mode. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that there are a number of unique identifiers for the UE . As discussed above the UE has a MAC address and an IMEI. Other unique identifiers may include an email address birth date user name phone number Android ID or a hash of one or more of these unique identifiers. Those skilled in the art will also appreciate that different mobile operator networks may use different unique identifiers. For example one mobile operator network may use a MAC address while another mobile operator network may use data contained within a SIM card. The system can accommodate the different identification requirements that may be imposed by each mobile operator network .

Also illustrated in is a RADIUS system coupled to the LAN via the backhaul . A RADIUS system refers to a remote authentication dial in user service communication protocol that will authenticate the UEs . In the embodiment of the RADIUS system may be part of the JUMMMP Cloud which is remote from the venue . Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the authentication requirements of the mobile operator networks may vary. One category of mobile operator networks may permit authentication of the UE using the RADIUS system as a stand alone authentication authorization accounting AAA server while a second category of mobile operator networks may require authentication of the UE using the AAA server that is part of the mobile operator network. The RADIUS system can function independently in place of the mobile operator networks in the former category and function as a proxy to relay authentication requests to the AAA server of the mobile operator networks in the latter category.

In one embodiment the RADIUS system serves as a stand alone RADIUS server for the plurality of mobile operator networks . As noted above each mobile operator network may use its own unique identification and authentication data. The RADIUS system contains all of the necessary data provided by the mobile operator networks to provide such authentication services.

In this embodiment the UE connects to an AP and provides the necessary identification data. More information on this interaction will be provided below. The LAN provides the identification data to the RADIUS system proxy server for authentication of the UE .

In an alternative embodiment the RADIUS system functions as a proxy and receives the identification data as well as the identity of the particular mobile operator network. The proxy RADIUS system establishes a secure RADIUS authentication link with the appropriate mobile operator network . In an exemplary embodiment a virtual private network VPN connection can be established as the secure link with the mobile operator network . The identification data from the UE is provided to the particular mobile operator network using the VPN. Other forms of secure communication are known and can be satisfactorily employed. In this alternative embodiment the authentication process is performed by the mobile operator network and the authentication results are returned to the RADIUS system .

Whether the authentication is done by the stand alone version of the RADIUS system or by functioning as a proxy for the mobile operator networks the UE will be authenticated or not authenticated. In one embodiment any UE that is not authenticated will not be permitted access to the network . Alternatively the UE can be provided with a restricted authentication to permit limited access to the network . For example classification of users may result in upgraded services to particular mobile operator networks tiers. Other UEs not within that service network may gain access to the network but a lesser bandwidth.

As described above a UE that has never registered with the JUMMMP Cloud see may be offered the opportunity to register and be authenticated within the venue . However the system described herein may still offer data off loading from the mobile operator network even when it has not previously been registered with the JUMMMP Cloud . The off loading may still occur because the RADIUS system is verifying the identity of the UE with respect to the mobile operator network for which the UE is a subscriber.

If the UE is authenticated the UE may be placed in an off load operational mode. In this mode both voice traffic to and from the mobile operator network and data traffic to and from the UE may be routed through the LAN . Alternatively the off load session may be for voice traffic only or for data traffic only. As discussed above the mobile operator network may have a set of rules regarding voice traffic off load to the UE . Alternatively the UE may be programmed with user preferences regarding maintaining a connection with the cellular network or seeking to connect with the AP for voice traffic off loading.

In the embodiment illustrated in the voice traffic is off loaded through the links to the network and routed to the specific UE via the LAN . In this mode of operation the voice traffic essentially becomes part of a VoIP telephone network.

The data traffic to and from the UE is coupled through the LAN . As noted above the network may represent the Internet. If a user of an authenticated UE wishes to access the Internet user may activate a built in web browser in the UE and send a command to the LAN to access a particular web page by transmitting the appropriate Uniform Resources Locator URL . That request is routed to the network via the content server . Those skilled in the art will appreciate that data requests transmitted from the UE and data downloads from a particular website on the network are transmitted in a conventional manner. Operational details of the actual data transfer are known to those skilled in the art and need not be described herein.

However the LAN monitors the quantity of data transmitted from the authenticated UE or received by the authenticated UE. In the example above the transmission of a URL is an upload that is sent from the UE to the network via the LAN . Elements within the LAN such as the router or switches of the infrastructure may be configured to monitor the data flow to and from each of the authenticated UEs . The LAN provides the data utilization information to a billing engine via the RADIUS system . In an exemplary embodiment the billing engine may also be part of the JUMMMP Cloud . The data utilization may be reported to the respective mobile operator networks as a data utilization log. The data utilization can be reported periodically or accumulated and reported at the end of a particular data session or reported at the end of each day or the like. The time at which data utilization can be reported can also vary from one mobile operator network to another.

The billing engine connects to each of the mobile operator networks via a secure communication link to provide a report of the data utilization. In an exemplary embodiment the billing engine can establish a VPN as the secure communication link . The utilization report can be provided to the mobile operator network in the form of a file transfer or email. The billing engine can also provide web access to permit the mobile operator network to retrieve the utilization report from the billing engine . Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the billing engine can format the utilization data into any format required by the billing server not shown in each of the mobile operator networks and provide the utilization reports in different manners e.g. email web access etc. that is customized for each mobile network operator.

The general operation of the exemplary embodiment illustrated in is described in the flow charts of . At a start in a venue see comprises a plurality of APs . At step the APs transmit a beacon signal containing an SSID. In one embodiment the same SSID may be used for UEs no matter which mobile network operator provides service. That is all UEs are configured to seek the same SSID for network authentication irrespective of the particular mobile operator network associated with that UE. For example the transmitted SSID may be CDOBM Carrier Data Off load By Mobilitie or some other convenient label. Alternatively the AP is capable of transmitting multiple SSIDs. In this embodiment each of the APs may transmit an SSID that is unique to each of the mobile operator networks . In yet another alternative some of the mobile operator networks may use unique SSIDs while other mobile operator networks can use the common SSID e.g. CDOBM . The system is not limited by the specific SSID. In yet another alternative embodiment IEEE 802.11u defines organization unique identifiers OUI that can be uniquely defined for each of the mobile operator networks . In this embodiment the beacon signal can contain up to three roaming OUI. Up to 32 additional networks may be identified in data sent to a UE in response to a request.

In step the UE detects the transmitted beacon signal from one or more APs . The UE can evaluate the beacon signal s without having to associate with a particular AP . In step the UE may transmit an Access Network Query Protocol ANQP request to the detected APs to obtain further information as to the capabilities of the APs.

In step the APs respond to the ANQP query and provide information regarding the attributes of the particular AP. As previously discussed the beacon from the APs may include an OUI. A response to the ANQP query can include data for up to 32 additional networks. In addition the response to the ANQP query will return available access services such as 3GPP realms EAP and the like to permit the UE to associate with the AP providing the best access. In step the UE selects and associates with a particular AP.

In step the UE transmits its authentication credentials. As previously discussed this may include device identification data such as a MAC address electronic serial number or other identifying information. Some UEs may include a subscriber identity module SIM to provide such authentication credentials. In an exemplary embodiment the infrastructure see tunnels the authentication credentials from the venue to the JUMMMP Cloud via the backhaul .

As previously discussed there are alternative approaches for authentication. In one embodiment the RADIUS system see can operate as a stand alone authentication server for the mobile operator network. In this embodiment the mobile operator network has downloaded the appropriate authentication data for its customers to the RADIUS system proxy server . In step the RADIUS system receives the authentication credentials for the UE and uses the authentication data from the appropriate mobile operator network to perform an authentication process. As noted above if a UE is not authenticated it will not be granted access to the network see or may be granted some form of restricted access. On the other hand if the UE is authenticated the RADIUS system permits the connection between the UE and the network using the LAN . The RADIUS system also configures the LAN to monitor data flow to and from the newly authenticated UE .

Alternatively the RADIUS system may be configured as a proxy server to pass the identification information along to the respective mobile operator network. In this embodiment the RADIUS system server does not perform the authentication process directly. Instead in step the RADIUS system serves as a proxy and transmits the authentication request to the mobile operator network. The RADIUS system establishes the secure communication link to the mobile operator network corresponding to the UE that has requested authentication. In this embodiment the authentication process is executed by the mobile operator network. In step the mobile operator network authenticates the UE. As discussed above with respect to the RADIUS system proxy server only authenticated UEs will be granted access to the network .

If a UE is authenticated and authorized to access the network the LAN may initiate data off loading monitoring in step shown in . This includes monitoring of all data flow to and from the particular UE .

In step the LAN reports data utilization to the RADIUS system . Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the reporting can be done in a manner that accommodates the particular mobile operator network . For example the data utilization may be reported periodically e.g. at regular intervals or some not to exceed time interval . In another example a data utilization report can be generated at the termination of each session. As illustrated in the session durations can vary in length. As a session is terminated the data utilization can be reported to the RADIUS system . In yet another alternative embodiment the data utilization can be reported at the end of the day or some other time deadline.

In decision the LAN determines whether an off load session has ended. If the off load session has not ended the result of decision is NO and the system returns to step . Step illustrates an optional data utilization report generation. If the result of decision is YES the system moves to step and sends a final data utilization report. The process ends at .

The system has been described for a large venue having a great number of APs and significant infrastructure . New construction simplifies the installation of such a system. However a large venue such as that illustrated in can also be easily updated. This may be important where a venue already has an existing infrastructure . In a large venue the multiple APs are configured for operation with the selected SSID e.g. CDOBM via a simple software upgrade. Since the software on the APs is routinely updated it can be easily configured to support the data offload utilization and billing described above. As modified the APs would transmit a predetermined SSID such as CDOBM.

For simple operation the APs need to be configured to support Hotspot 2.0. Since Hotspot 2.0 is an industry standard this upgrade is generally straightforward. When the APs have been updated it is possible to create the new SSID such as CDOBM. The APs are further configured to support IEEE 802.1x authentication with conventional communication protocols such as an extensible authentication protocol EAP . Those skilled in the art will appreciate that other protocols or variations on EAP may be used. For example a certificate based EAP may become a standard communication protocol in the future. In such a future arrangement an EAP TLS or EAP TTLS may be used. The present system is not limited by the specific conventional communication protocols. In one embodiment the APs may use EAP with a subscriber identity module SIM . The EAP SIM protocol may be used in conjunction with the global system for mobile communications GSM technology for authenticating and generating session keys. It is known to use an authentication and key agreement AKA communication protocol with EAP for cellular operation of the UEs . For example EAP AKA can be used in UTMS mobile devices for authentication and session keys. In wireless networks an EAP AKA which is a revision of EAP AKA can be used to support authentication on a non 3GPP network.

The radius system must be configured for stand alone operation or as a proxy server to the mobile operator networks for authentication. The billing engine may be populated with the data to recognize the new venue and the APs associated therewith.

In an exemplary embodiment the APs may also be configured to have the appropriate wireless multimedia extensions WMM to establish WMM quality of service QoS for voice traffic. In an exemplary embodiment a virtual LAN VLAN may be established as appropriate for local wireless LAN WLAN to separate traffic types or to adhere to local policies within the venue . Local VLAN DHCP DNS may be provided by the venue .

Finally the appropriate sites may be established on the RADIUS system and the billing engine in the JUMMP Cloud to configure the authentication accounting and reporting functions of those elements. Once the RADIUS system and billing engine have been properly configured the software updates can be downloaded to the APs . The UEs are configured to look for the selected SSID e.g. CDOBM or the OUI for the mobile operator network associated with a particular UE. Accordingly the APs will automatically begin to broadcast the beacon containing the appropriate SSID or OUI and the UEs will automatically recognize those beacon signals. Thus the billing system will automatically begin to operate with the billing system described herein.

In an alternative embodiment APs with identical IEEE 802.11u access at a particular location such as the venue can be grouped together by sharing the same homogeneous extended service set ID HESSID . The HESSID is used by the UE to identify APs with the same network access after it is associated with one of the APs to prevent the UE from roaming to an AP not configured for operation with IEEE 802.11u.

It is important to note that these changes may generally be performed by software only without the necessity of additional hardware within the venue . In some embodiments the APs may come pre configured with the necessary beacon data e.g. SSID and OUI and configuration software as described above. This provides a simplified solution as a plug and play device.

Returning to in an alternative embodiment a UE may not have direct communication with an AP but can communicate with a nearby UE that does have a connection with an AP. For example illustrates the wireless connection between the UE and the AP . The UE is out of range of the APs but can establish a communication link with the UE . Thus the UE is piggybacked to the UE and can communicate with the AP via the UE . One can appreciate that uploads and downloads to and from the UE must not be billed to the UE which is merely serving as a relay point between the UE and the AP . As described above the UE would transmit an SSID such as JUMMMP to identify itself as able to establish the short range network see . Using the principles described herein the UE would search for the SSID e.g. CDOBM being transmitted from the APs to establish an off load data session. If the UE is unable to detect the selected SSID e.g. CDOBM the connection manager see in the UE can reconfigure the device to search for the JUMMMP SSID being transmitted by the UE . If the connection is successful the UE can communicate with AP via the UE . Once the link between the UE and the AP is established via the UE the UE can perform the ANQP to retrieve carrier data for the various mobile operator networks . The authentication process for the UE is carried out in essentially the same manner as described above. The infrastructure monitors the data flow with the UE as the source or destination to thereby monitor data utilization of the UE even though the data passes through the UE .

This process can be extended to other UEs that may only be able to connect to the UE . For example the UE in can connect to the AP via the UE and the UE . Thus the UE is piggybacked on the UE and the UE .

The piggybacking process is illustrated in the flow chart of where at a start the infrastructure such as illustrated in is in place. In step the APs are configured to function as access points and mesh root access points. The APs support communication with the UEs operating in a standard operating mode or a mesh operating mode. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that a root AP is one that is connected to traditional network structures such as the infrastructure .

In step the UEs are configured to operate as mesh stations. Mesh functionality can be enabled with a conventional application program or as part of the API as described above. In step the UEs discover all nearby UEs and begin a peer to peer process with them. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that each UE will build an optimal path to the root APs . The root AP for one UE may be different than the root AP for a different UE .

In step each mesh UE will begin to broadcast a beacon. In an exemplary embodiment the UE will broadcast BSSID with 802.11u Hotspot 2.0 beacons. IEEE 802.11u allows a mesh UE to broadcast its roaming capabilities such as external network access supported authentication available bandwidth and the like. A non mesh UE e.g. the UE can decide to join based on information in the mesh UE beacons. If such roaming is supported the UE will roam to the mesh UE without any user interaction.

Returning to in step the UE detects the Hotspot 2.0 beacons during a scan and will send ANQP requests to nearby UEs . The UEs respond to the UE with requested information. The UE can verify the responses and select one of the mesh UEs to associate with.

In step the UE performs the authentication process. In an exemplary embodiment the UE can use conventional communication protocols such as EAP SIM and or EAP TTLS or EAP AKA as discussed above. The EAP packets are forwarded over mesh links to the APs for processing. The AP will proxy the EAP packets to the radius system for proxy authentication or for forwarding directly to mobile operator networks for authentication of the UE in the manner described above. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that all data communication traffic between the UE and the root AP is encrypted to prevent man in the middle attacks on communications between the UE and the AP . Similarly traffic between the mesh UEs and the APs and peer to peer communications between the UEs are also encrypted. In a typical embodiment the UEs may use conventional encryption protocols such as the advanced encryption standard AES .

Following a successful authentication process the UE will have an encrypted tunnel to the root AP for all data packets to and from the UE . At step data packets to and from the UE are routed through the encrypted tunnel via the UE to the AP . In step data traffic to and from the piggybacked UE i.e. the UE is monitored. In an exemplary embodiment the root AP will build accounting records based on data packets transmitted to and received from the UE and forward the accounting information to the billing engine . The process ends at .

In this implementation the UE may move to any nearby UEs that are coupled to the same root AP because that AP has handled the authentication process. In addition the UE may roam to another AP . The current AP will send accounting stop information to the billing engine and the new AP will issue an accounting start after a successful roaming transition.

The peer to peer tunneling described above may be based on IEEE 802.11s for wireless mesh networks. The peer to peer communication provides secure discovery through authenticated mesh peering exchange AMPE and validates mobile devices that participate as mesh stations. As noted above encryption such as AES may be used for all peer to peer communication. In addition a hybrid wireless mesh protocol HWMP provides path selection to a root AP . This protocol may support proactive and reactive path selections. A proactive path selection maps out the optimal network path for communications. A reactive path selection allows dynamic path alteration in the event of changes in the topology of the mesh network. For example if the UE is piggybacked to the UE and that UE goes off line it will be necessary for the UE to react and thereby establish a new communication pathway to the AP . Pathway selection also allows a roaming UE to connect through multiple mesh stations i.e. UEs configured for mesh operation based on the best pathway metrics for factors such as reliability QoS and the like. When more than one UE are operating in a mesh configuration there are multiple exit points for the UE to gain access to one or more root APs . If a UE that is currently providing a connection to a root AP drops off of the network one of the additional mesh configured UEs will take over that role. This system architecture provides a more dynamic solution that improves overall network reliability.

In yet another alternative embodiment the UE can be configured to transmit the selected SSID e.g. CDOBM when data off loading is available. In this embodiment the UE need only search for the selected SSID as described above. The UE is configured to connect to the connection point either one of the APs or the UE with the strongest signal strength.

The multi venue authentication permits fast and automatic authentication of a previously registered UE as soon as it encounters an AP in any venue connected to the JUMMMP Cloud . If data offloading capability is available in the venue the process described above can occur automatically and without user intervention.

The example of illustrates data offloading in a large venue that typically includes a large number of APs and an extensive infrastructure . However the principles of data offloading and monitoring of data utilization can be accomplished in a small environment such as a home small business or office as illustrated in . In the LAN has been replaced by a modem wireless router to function as the AP. Although these functions can be implemented by separate devices they are shown as an integrated unit in for the sake of convenience. Furthermore many internet service providers ISPs provide an integrated unit. The modem portion of the modem router contains the necessary interface hardware and supporting software to permit communication with an ISP . Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the specific implementation of the modem portion depends on the type of connectivity between the modem router and the ISP . This may include but is not limited to cable telephony fiber optics microwave or other radio frequency connection.

The wireless router portion of the modem router operates in a conventional manner to provide internet connectivity to the UEs or the UE which may be piggybacked on to the UE in the manner described above.

In this implementation the modem router can be configured through a simple software upgrade to support data offload billing. No hardware changes are required to the modem router to provide such capability. Since the software on the modem router is routinely updated it can be easily configured to support the data offload utilization and billing described above. Based on the teachings described herein any new or existing WiFi network can automatically become a billing engine for any or all mobile operator networks see . As modified the modem router would transmit a predetermined SSID such as CDOBM. As described above the connection manager see in the UE seeks out and connects with a wireless device transmitting such an SSID. Device authentication occurs in essentially the same manner described above. However in the embodiment illustrated in authentication data is routed to the radius system via the ISP rather than through the backhaul in the embodiment of . Although not illustrated in the connection between the ISP and the JUMMMP Cloud may typically occur via the network such as the Internet. However the specific connection between the ISP and the JUMMMP Cloud may be satisfactorily implemented via the network a backhaul or any other suitable form of communication.

The radius system performs the authentication process in the manner described above. As previously noted the radius system may operate as a proxy RADIUS server for the plurality of mobile operator networks or may serve as a communication link to provide the authentication data to a particular one of the mobile operator networks. Once the UE or UE is authenticated the data utilization may be monitored. In the embodiment of the modem router has the responsibility for tracking data utilization. This is conveniently implemented since all data flow between the ISP and the UEs or UE occur via the modem router .

The billing engine may periodically query the modem router to get updated data utilization. Alternatively the modem router may periodically report data utilization. In yet another alternative embodiment the modem router may report data utilization based on an event such as the termination of a communication session between a UE and a website or termination of a connection between the UE and the modem router .

Data is downloaded to the UEs or uploaded from the UEs via the ISP . The ISP may include the content firewall server which is located within the venue in the embodiment of . In the embodiment of the functionality of the content firewall server may also be implemented within the modem router . As noted above no hardware changes are required for the implementation of the billing engine system described herein. Only a software change is required to enable the existing hardware to off load billing for any or all mobile operator networks . Those skilled in the art will appreciate that many modern modems include data firewall capability. All standard approaches are supported.

Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the UEs and UE illustrated in may be associated with different mobile operator networks . For example one UE may be associated with one mobile operator network while the other UE or UE may be associated with a different mobile operator network . Identification of the particular mobile operator network occurs in the manner described above. Thus the exemplary embodiment illustrated in can operate satisfactorily with multiple mobile operator networks without regard to the identity of the particular mobile operator network or the particular data billing procedures implemented by any network. Furthermore the UEs configured in the manner described herein can operate satisfactorily in different venues such as the home venue environment illustrated in or in a large venue such as illustrated in . The hardware and infrastructure support shown for the embodiments of are different but the billing engine described herein works equally well in either environment or in other similar environments.

As noted above the modem router in can be easily configured for operation with the data offload billing techniques described herein. This allows simple implementation of the data utilization monitoring. This is true in an enterprise or customer facing venue such as the venue illustrated in supporting venues retail or the like. The plug and play solution described above with respect to is also applicable in a home environment such as described in or any other WiFi enabled location such as office buildings parks colleges libraries open spaces and the like.

The foregoing described embodiments depict different components contained within or connected with different other components. It is to be understood that such depicted architectures are merely exemplary and that in fact many other architectures can be implemented which achieve the same functionality. In a conceptual sense any arrangement of components to achieve the same functionality is effectively associated such that the desired functionality is achieved. Hence any two components herein combined to achieve a particular functionality can be seen as associated with each other such that the desired functionality is achieved irrespective of architectures or intermedial components. Likewise any two components so associated can also be viewed as being operably connected or operably coupled to each other to achieve the desired functionality.

While particular embodiments of the present invention have been shown and described it will be obvious to those skilled in the art that based upon the teachings herein changes and modifications may be made without departing from this invention and its broader aspects and therefore the appended claims are to encompass within their scope all such changes and modifications as are within the true spirit and scope of this invention. Furthermore it is to be understood that the invention is solely defined by the appended claims. It will be understood by those within the art that in general terms used herein and especially in the appended claims e.g. bodies of the appended claims are generally intended as open terms e.g. the term including should be interpreted as including but not limited to the term having should be interpreted as having at least the term includes should be interpreted as includes but is not limited to etc. . It will be further understood by those within the art that if a specific number of an introduced claim recitation is intended such an intent will be explicitly recited in the claim and in the absence of such recitation no such intent is present. For example as an aid to understanding the following appended claims may contain usage of the introductory phrases at least one and one or more to introduce claim recitations. However the use of such phrases should not be construed to imply that the introduction of a claim recitation by the indefinite articles a or an limits any particular claim containing such introduced claim recitation to inventions containing only one such recitation even when the same claim includes the introductory phrases one or more or at least one and indefinite articles such as a or an e.g. a and or an should typically be interpreted to mean at least one or one or more the same holds true for the use of definite articles used to introduce claim recitations. In addition even if a specific number of an introduced claim recitation is explicitly recited those skilled in the art will recognize that such recitation should typically be interpreted to mean at least the recited number e.g. the bare recitation of two recitations without other modifiers typically means at least two recitations or two or more recitations .

