---

title: Blind phase-shift keying (PSK) and quadrature amplitude modulation (QAM) identification
abstract: Technology for blind phase-shift keying (PSK) and quadrature amplitude modulation (QAM) identification of a received radio frequency (RF) signal is disclosed. One method can include: uniform sub-sampling the received RF signal to eliminate a phase contribution from a carrier frequency of the received RF signal; and computing a likelihood function of observed phase differences of the sub-sampled received RF signal of a phase sequence for each PSK modulation type. Another method can include: non-uniformly sub-sampling the received RF signal for a distribution of signal amplitudes of the received RF signal; and computing a likelihood function of the signal amplitudes of the sub-samples of the received RF signal for each modulation type.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09413584&OS=09413584&RS=09413584
owner: University of Utah Research Foundation
number: 09413584
owner_city: Salt Lake City
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150407
---
A radio frequency RF signal can be modulated using various modulation schemes such as phase shift keying PSK and quadrature amplitude modulation QAM . PSK modulation can include binary PSK BPSK phase reversal keying PRK or 2PSK quadrature PSK QPSK quaternary PSK quadriphase PSK or 4 PSK and 8PSK 8 PSK and QAM can include 16QAM 32QAM 64QAM 128QAM 256QAM 512QAM and 1024QAM or higher order.

The disclosed technology describes a method for identifying different QAM Quadrature Amplitude Modulation and PSK Phase shift Keying signals without information about a carrier frequency symbol rate pulse shaping or any other information pertaining to the transmitter. An amplitude likelihood based method may be used to classify between QAM and PSK modulations and to identify different QAMs. Subsequently a phase likelihood based method may be applied to identify different PSK modulations. The likelihood based method can identify a modulation type by maximizing a likelihood function of the amplitudes or the phase difference between nearby samples of the received signal. The technology can compute likelihood functions of the received signals for each of the candidate modulation types and identify the modulation type as a candidate modulation type for which the likelihood function is maximum.

The technology can include amplitude and phase likelihood based methods for automatically identifying different quadrature amplitude modulations QAMs and different phase shift keying PSK modulations. In one example method an amplitude likelihood based method can be used to classify between QAM and PSK modulations and to identify different QAMs. A phase likelihood based algorithm can then be applied to identify different PSK modulations. The method does not need prior knowledge of carrier frequency or symbol rate and can identify modulation types at relatively low signal to noise ratio SNR using a small number of input samples. Pulse shaped signals can be identified using a small number of symbols. Further the method works well at low signal to noise ratios.

There has thus been broadly outlined some features of the disclosure so that the detailed description that follows may be better understood and so that the present contribution to the art may be better appreciated. Other features of the disclosure will become clearer from the following detailed description of the disclosure taken with the accompanying drawings and claims or may be learned by the practice of the disclosure.

The drawings merely depict exemplary embodiments of the disclosure therefore the drawings are not to be considered limiting of its scope. It will be readily appreciated that the components of the disclosure as generally described and illustrated in the figures herein could be arranged sized and designed in a wide variety of different configurations. Nonetheless the disclosure will be described and explained with additional specificity and detail through the use of the accompanying drawings.

It is to be understood that this disclosure is not limited to the particular structures process steps or materials disclosed but is extended to equivalents as would be recognized by those ordinarily skilled in the relevant arts. Alterations and further modifications of the illustrated features and additional applications of the principles of the examples which would occur to one skilled in the relevant art and having possession of this disclosure are to be considered within the scope of the disclosure. It should also be understood that terminology employed herein is used for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting. The same reference numerals in different drawings represent the same element.

It must be noted that as used in this specification and the appended claims the singular forms a an and the include plural referents unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. Thus for example reference to a wave includes one or more of such elements reference to rows includes reference to one or more of such features and reference to exposing includes one or more of such steps.

In describing and claiming the present disclosure the following terminology will be used in accordance with the definitions set forth below.

As used herein substantial when used in reference to a quantity or amount of a material or a specific characteristic thereof refers to an amount that is sufficient to provide an effect that the material or characteristic was intended to provide. Therefore substantially free when used in reference to a quantity or amount of a material or a specific characteristic thereof refers to the absence of the material or characteristic or to the presence of the material or characteristic in an amount that is insufficient to impart a measurable effect normally imparted by such material or characteristic.

As used herein a plurality of items structural elements compositional elements and or materials may be presented in a common list for convenience. However these lists should be construed as though each member of the list is individually identified as a separate and unique member. Thus no individual member of such list should be construed as a de facto equivalent of any other member of the same list solely based on their presentation in a common group without indications to the contrary.

Numerical data may be expressed or presented herein in a range format. It is to be understood that such a range format is used merely for convenience and brevity and thus should be interpreted flexibly to include not only the numerical values explicitly recited as the limits of the range but also to include all the individual numerical values or sub ranges encompassed within that range as if each numerical value and sub range is explicitly recited. As an illustration a numerical range of about 0.6 mm to about 0.3 mm should be interpreted to include not only the explicitly recited values of about 0.6 mm and about 0.3 mm but also include individual values and sub ranges within the indicated range. Thus included in this numerical range are individual values such as 0.4 mm and 0.5 and sub ranges such as from 0.5 0.4 mm from 0.4 0.35 etc. This same principle applies to ranges reciting only one numerical value. Furthermore such an interpretation should apply regardless of the breadth of the range or the characteristics being described.

As used herein the term about means that dimensions sizes formulations parameters shapes and other quantities and characteristics are not and need not be exact but may be approximated and or larger or smaller as desired reflecting tolerances conversion factors rounding off measurement error and the like and other factors known to those of skill in the art. Further unless otherwise stated the term about shall expressly include exactly consistent with the discussion above regarding ranges and numerical data.

In the present disclosure the term preferably or preferred is non exclusive where it is intended to mean preferably but not limited to. Any steps recited in any method or process claims may be executed in any order and are not limited to the order presented in the claims. Means plus function or step plus function limitations will only be employed where for a specific claim limitation all of the following conditions are present in that limitation a means for or step for is expressly recited and b a corresponding function is expressly recited. The structure material or acts that support the means plus function are expressly recited in the description herein. Accordingly the scope of the disclosure should be determined solely by the appended claims and their legal equivalents rather than by the descriptions and examples given herein.

A technology is described for blind modulation identification. Blind modulation identification may be modulation identification performed without a priori knowledge of a carrier frequency symbol rate and other parameters of radio frequency RF signal transmission. Methods used for blind modulation identification may expect to receive an RF signal that is Quadrature Amplitude Modulated QAM or phase shift keying PSK modulated but does not assume any prior knowledge of a modulation order.

The technology can combine a QAM likelihood identification function with a PSK likelihood identification function to identify both QAMs and PSKs. As a result a signal to noise ratio SNR searching range in an amplitude likelihood function for QAMs can be modified to achieve better performance as compared to similar methods. A non uniform sub sampling process can also be modified for the amplitude likelihood function. In phase likelihood functions a constant phase contributed by a carrier frequency can be estimated.

Applying Hilbert transformation to the received RF signals a sampled version of the RF signal is given by 

Having received the RF signal as in block a baud rate can be estimated for the received RF signal as well as other characteristics such as parameters in pulse shaping filter and noise which may be used in determining a RF signal type i.e. PSK or QAM . As an illustration based on sampled version of the RF signal above the RF signal spectrum can be expressed as 2 5 where Pis a clean signal power G f is the squared magnitude of the frequency response of a pulse shaping filter and a noise variance. As such the frequency response of the matched filter which can be the same pulse shaping filter in the RF signal is the square root of the RF signal spectrum.

Assuming a square root raised cosine pulse shape for baud rate estimation parameters such as baud rate roll off factor and noise variance can be estimated using least squares regression after estimating the spectrum using a method for estimating the power of a RF signal at different frequencies e.g. Welch s method . A parameterized model of the squared frequency response of the root raised cosine filter with parameter and symbol duration Tis given by 

When the RF signal is received the identity of the RF signal may not be known. Therefore as in block a determination can be made whether the received RF signal is a PSK signal using an amplitude likelihood function. For example an amplitude likelihood function can be used to classify a received RF signal as a QAM modulation or a PSK modulation. In addition the amplitude likelihood function can be used to identify different types of QAM modulations. As in block if the received RF signal is not classified as a PSK modulation the as in block the received RF signal is a QAM modulation. Otherwise the received RF signal is a PSK modulation and as in block the PSK modulation may be identified using a phase likelihood function as described in relation to .

In some examples a timing recovery method may be used that selects timing phases e.g. samples that have a maximum ensemble average power of a period of T. For example the timing recovery method may be configured so that an assumption may be made that a ratio between a sampling rate and baud is integer. However for a given blind received RF signal the number of samples per baud may not always be integer. As a result a time recovery method may be modified to a non uniform sub sampling method based on the ensemble average power of each samples for the received RF signals. For example the sampled RF signals as shown in Equation 3 use a baud number of samples per symbol T T Tinstead of the baud rate Tto describe the non uniform process.

In consideration of non integer baud the ensemble average power can be calculated by interpolating samples of received RF signals. Using coarse estimation of the baud an evaluation of the ensemble average power of each samples shown in Equation 7 may be performed. As an example the non uniform sub sampling can be performed by starting with a sample with the maximum ensemble power among samples in the first several symbol durations. The next sample selected can be a sample with a peak value of the ensemble average power as the result of a search over a small interval around the middle point of next baud based on last selected samples. Illustratively a small interval may be selected to be the smallest integer larger than or equal to one fourth of an estimated number of samples per baud. It is noted that the sub sampling process described above may be non uniform due to peak values that may not be equally spaced from one another.

Examples of the effects of matched filtering and non uniform sub sampling are illustrated in . Shown is one example of an amplitude distribution of received RF signals before and after matched filtering and non uniform sub sampling for a 16 QAM signal. For example the distribution of signal amplitudes of the received RF signal can include a weighted sum of distributions corresponding to different amplitude values. Parameters for the example RF signals shown in are SNR 20 dB number of symbols N 10 000 T T 20. The graph shows a constellation map of a received RF signal. A histogram of the RF signal amplitude is shown. Corresponding results after matched filtering and sub sampling are shown in the graph and the histogram . Three groups of amplitude of the 16 QAM signals can be observed after matched filtering and non uniform sub sampling but the three groups cannot be observed in the received RF signal prior to matched filtering and non uniform sub sampling . Consequently the likelihood functions used for modulation identification of RF signals without pulse shaping can be used to identify pulse shaped RF signals after sub sampling.

In one example a QAM likelihood function e.g. an amplitude likelihood function for different QAM signals can be based on the Probability Density Function PDF of the QAM signal amplitudes. For example a modulation type of a received RF signal may be determined by letting there be N distinct amplitude values for the Mth modulation type and let Hrepresent the hypothesis that the Mth modulation type is the actual modulation type of the received RF signal. Further letting the set S i 1 2 . . . N represent the N distinct amplitude values and letting W i be the probability of the ith amplitude value for the Mth modulation type. The PDF for RF signal amplitude R will then be 

Illustratively given Namplitude values R R . . . Rof the received RF signals the conditional probability that His true is given by 

The QAM likelihood function e.g. amplitude likelihood identification can identify the RF signal modulation type as the corresponding hypothesis modulation type that maximizes the log likelihood function in Equation 11 .

In one example a non QAM likelihood function may include additional modulation types resulting in an increase of the flexibility of the non QAM likelihood function to identify different QAM signals. For example the modulation type for the non QAM likelihood function may have 50 amplitude groups that may be uniformly distributed from 1 to 50.

Because additional noise may be added to the RF signals in matched filtering and non uniform sub sampling and because identification performance may be very sensitive to the change of SNRs the SNR searching range may be defined in the likelihood functions e.g. the likelihood functions can be configured to compensate for noise power . For example a SNR searching range may be refined in the likelihood functions as described later.

A maximum value produced by the likelihood functions can be found and a modulation type of the received RF signal can be identified based on the maximum value of the likelihood function calculations. Illustratively modulation types can include PSK 16QAM 32QAM 64QAM 128QAM 256QAM 512 QAM 1024 QAM 2048 QAM and 4096 QAM as well as other modulation types not specifically listed here. illustrates an example flow of steps that can be used to identify a modulation type as PSK 64 QAM or 256 QAM based on the maximum value of the likelihood function calculations.

In one example a starting sample may be selected as described earlier in relation to i.e. blocks . Because phase values in each symbol duration may be substantially the same more samples can be obtained by selecting different starting points for sub sampling in one baud. After sub sampling a received RF signal uniformly with a first starting sample an adjacent sample of the first starting sample can be selected as a new starting point and samples may be selected in the same way as described above. In consideration of the effect of the inter symbol interference the number of the starting samples can be as many as half of the estimated symbol duration. Adjacent samples of sub sampled sequences may be used in a likelihood function calculated based on the phase difference between adjacent samples.

Returning to as in block the samples obtained from sub sampling may be provided to PSK likelihood functions. The likelihood function for PSK signals may be based on the PDF of the phase difference between nearby samples of the received RF signals. Illustratively let there be N distinct phase difference values between symbols for the Mth modulation type. Also let the set M i i 1 2 . . . N represent the N distinct phase difference values and let w i be the probability of the ith phase difference value for the Mth modulation type and let be the constant phase contributed from the carrier frequency. The PDF for RF signal phase difference will then be 

As in block by finding the maximum of the log likelihood functions in Equation 14 under different hypothesis then as in block the PSK types of the received RF signals can be identified as the corresponding hypothesis. Instead of searching over the range of in the phase likelihood functions a constant phase contributed by the carrier frequency can be estimated from a histogram of the phase difference between nearby samples after sub sampling. Because 0 phase may be one phase group between nearby symbols for each modulation type the constant phase contributed from the carrier frequency may shift the 0 phase group to the constant. Each phase group should have maximum probabilities in the histogram of the phase difference between nearby symbols in a range from to . Therefore the constant phase can be estimated as the maximum in the histogram for the phase difference of nearby samples after sub sampling.

As in block a likelihood function can then be used to compute signal amplitudes of the sub sampled received RF signal for each modulation type. Illustratively modulation types may include PSK modulation types e.g. binary PSK BPSK quadrature PSK QPSK and 8PSK and QAM modulation types e.g. 16 QAM 32 QAM 64 QAM 128 QAM 256 QAM 512 QAM 1024 QAM 2048 QAM and 4096 QAM .

In some examples a determination of whether a single signal amplitude results from the likelihood function may be made and in the case of a single signal amplitude a uniform sub sampling of the received RF signal may be performed. A likelihood function can then be computed based on observed phase differences of the sub samples of the received RF signal of a phase sequence for each PSK modulation type.

As in block a modulation type of the received RF signal can be identified. In one example a maximum value of the likelihood function calculations can be found and a modulation type of the received RF signal can be identified based on the maximum value of the likelihood function calculations.

Theoretical analysis for amplitude and phase likelihood functions is presented. In the following section a theoretical analysis is presented for the performance of a likelihood function that identifies a modulation. More specifically the probability of successful identification for each modulation type is presented. Successful identification for modulation M is the case when the likelihood function under the hypothesis of modulation M is larger than that under all the other hypotheses. Let p success H represent the successful identification for modulation M which can be expressed as 

In order to calculate p success H the PDF of the likelihood functions lis found. Due to the complexity of Equations 11 and 14 the statistics of lcan be difficult to derive. As such the PDF of lcan be assumed to be Gaussian distributed using the central limit theorem when the number of RF signal samples is large. Obtaining the mean and variance is a direct way to derive the Gaussian distribution.

Assuming the likelihood functions are independent of each other the calculation p l l H can be performed to obtain p success H . Let be defined as the difference of two likelihood functions under different hypotheses when the input RF signal is modulation M which can be written as 

Then 0 18 let represent the mean of and represent the variance of . Analytical expressions for the mean 

In the process of applying amplitude based likelihood functions to identify different QAM modulations matched filtering and non uniform sub sampling change the RF signal model used in the theoretical analysis. As a result the simulation results do not match well with the theoretical results. In the following two subsections provides analysis of the possible reasons.

For QAM likelihood functions a pre process step can be performed before applying the QAM likelihood function to the RF signal. The SNR is changed after pre processing which is shown as the following.

Combining Equation 22 and 23 we can obtain the ratio of the SNR before and after the matched filtering which is 

The pulse shape filter is assumed to be a square root raised cosine filter. Applying Equation 6 to Equation 24 the ratio of the SNR before and after the matched filtering becomes 

Equation 25 shows that the SNR difference is related to the roll off factor and number of samples per symbol both of which are estimated in the baud estimation. Thus the SNR in QAM likelihood functions should be the estimated SNR plus the SNR difference. However the SNRs in PSK likelihood functions are the estimated SNRs because there is no matched filter process in the algorithm.

The non uniform sub sampling process can add more noise to the RF signals because the samples are optimized at each baud. The lth samples by non uniform sampling becomes 26 where l k T T l l is optimized based on the non uniform sampling process. If l equals to 0 the samples have been chosen correctly and the RF signal model is the same as that in the likelihood functions. But when l does not equal 0 the amplitude of the RF signal model can be simplified as 0 27 

The additional term g 0 is small variation from g 0 and can be regarded as additional noise added to the RF signal model. When the number of samples is large the number of samples satisfy Gaussian distribution using central limit theorem. In this way the SNR of the RF signal after non uniform sampling can have a small variation compared with the SNR before. Here the theoretical probability of identification can be considered if there is error between estimated SNR and true SNR As an example the derivation below considers only two modulation types which are 16 QAM and 32 QAM.

Let Hrepresent the hypothesis for 16 QAM and Hrepresent the hypothesis for 32 QAM. The difference of the likelihood functions under these two hypotheses for a specific SNR is 

Similar as in Section III A theoretical probability of identification due to the mismatch of SNR also satisfies the Gaussian distribution and can be estimated by mean and variance. The mean and variance can be evaluated similar as in Section III A.

Let Sbe the estimated SNR the mean for the probability of identification due to the mismatch of SNR if the input RF signal is 16 QAM can be expressed as 

A similar derivation can be made for 32 QAM signals. show six examples of theoretical probability of correct modulation identification for 16 QAM and 32 QAM signals at different SNRs when there is mismatch off the true SNR. The six examples shown in are similar except for 64 QAM versus 256 QAM. and provide several observations. First the performance of the amplitude likelihood function is sensitive to SNR changes when SNR is lower than 10 dB. Second to obtain 100 identification rate for all modulation types the estimated SNR should have a variation in a range that is close to the true SNRs. Finally the variation range for different SNRs is different. Higher SNRs will have wider range.

As explained earlier in this section non uniform sub sampling adds more noise into the RF signal that cannot be estimated accurately. Therefore the method can be modified as follows. A different SNR searching range can be selected in the likelihood functions of each hypothesis for different estimated SNRs. By finding the maximum value among these likelihood functions the SNR can be obtained. The SNR searching range is defined in table I.

Also performance for 64 QAM signals versus 256 QAM signals is different from other RF signals which can be seen in . The SNR range is different from that in . As a consequence an additional step can be added to identify between 64 QAM and 256 QAM. If a RF signal is identified as the RF signal type as 64 QAM and the SNR is higher than 10 dB we will change the SNR searching range in the likelihood functions for 64 QAM and 256 QAM as shown in table II.

In this section the performance of the likelihood blind modulation identification methods is first demonstrated as the comparison between theoretical and simulated results of successful identification. Then the comparison of the likelihood blind modulation identification methods with other two is presented. Finally shown is the probability of correctly identifying each modulation type under several SNR conditions in the simulation. Also provided is the performance of the likelihood blind modulation identification methods in noise environments that are different from the assumed Gaussian model.

In this section the theoretical identification results as described earlier are compared with the simulation results for PSK and QAM signals.

1 Comparison for PSK signals show two examples of comparisons between theoretical probability of correct identification and simulation results when identifying between BPSK with QPSK signals under different SNRs with 1000 symbols. is the results for correctly identifying BPSK signals and is the results for correctly identifying QPSK signals. show two examples of comparisons between theory and simulation for identifying BPSK and QPSK signals with different signal length when SNR equals to 5 dB. is the results for correctly identifying BPSK signals and is the results for correctly identifying QPSK signals.

2 Comparison for QAM signals The comparisons for 16 QAM and 32 QAM signals in this section are examples for the other QAM signals. As we mentioned earlier the SNR after matched filtering and non uniform sub sampling can change the SNRs in the received RF signals. The SNR due to the matched filtering can be added using the estimated baud rate and roll off factor. However the SNR change due to the non uniform sub sampling may be difficult to estimate directly from the sub sampled RF signals. As a result simulated RF signals were trained and an estimated SNR for the RF signals were obtained after matched filtering and non uniform sub sampling. The additional noise variance due to the non uniform sub sampling is calculated in the simulation as shown in Equation 27 . Table III shows the comparisons of the original SNRs in the RF signal the SNRs after matched filtering and the SNRs after matched filtering and non uniform sub sampling.

As shown the SNR after matched filtering and non uniform sub sampling decreases by 1 3 dB as compared with the SNRs after matched filtering. As a result in the following comparisons between simulation and theoretical results the SNRs in theoretical results are decreased by 2 dB in respect to the theoretical SNRs after matched filtering.

In this section two other modulation identification methods a clustering method and a cumulant based method are compared with the likelihood blind modulation identification method disclosed herein. The comparisons between the clustering method the cumulant based method and the likelihood blind modulation identification method are shown in for each modulation type as the probability of correct identification for RF signals with different modulation types under Gaussian noise.

Another comparison between the clustering method the cumulant based method and the likelihood blind modulation identification method is shown in for each modulation type. show the conditional probability that the input RF signal is one modulation type when the system identifies the input RF signal as that modulation type. Let the Hrepresent that the input RF signal is Mth modulation types and represents that the system identifies the input RF signal as Mth modulation types. Then the conditional probability can be expressed as 

In the simulations of this section a root raised cosine filter with parameter 0.5 was applied to the transmitted symbol sequence the number of samples per symbol was 20 N 10 000 symbols were used and 500 independent runs were used to calculate the probability of correct identification.

Various techniques or certain aspects or portions thereof may take the form of program code i.e. instructions embodied in tangible media such as floppy diskettes compact disc read only memory CD ROMs hard drives non transitory computer readable storage medium or any other machine readable storage medium wherein when the program code is loaded into and executed by a machine such as a computer the machine becomes an apparatus for practicing the various techniques. Circuitry can include hardware firmware program code executable code computer instructions and or software. A non transitory computer readable storage medium can be a computer readable storage medium that does not include signal. In the case of program code execution on programmable computers the computing device may include a processor a storage medium readable by the processor including volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements at least one input device and at least one output device. The volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements may be a random access memory RAM erasable programmable read only memory EPROM flash drive optical drive magnetic hard drive solid state drive or other medium for storing electronic data. The switch may also include a transceiver module i.e. transceiver a counter module i.e. counter a processing module i.e. processor and or a clock module i.e. clock or timer module i.e. timer . One or more programs that may implement or utilize the various techniques described herein may use an application programming interface API reusable controls and the like. Such programs may be implemented in a high level procedural or object oriented programming language to communicate with a computer system. However the program s may be implemented in assembly or machine language if desired. In any case the language may be a compiled or interpreted language and combined with hardware implementations.

It should be understood that many of the functional units described in this specification have been labeled as modules in order to more particularly emphasize their implementation independence. For example a module may be implemented as a hardware circuit comprising custom very large scale integration VLSI circuits or gate arrays off the shelf semiconductors such as logic chips transistors or other discrete components. A module may also be implemented in programmable hardware devices such as field programmable gate arrays programmable array logic programmable logic devices or the like.

Modules may also be implemented in software for execution by various types of processors. An identified module of executable code may for instance comprise one or more physical or logical blocks of computer instructions which may for instance be organized as an object procedure or function. Nevertheless the executables of an identified module need not be physically located together but may comprise disparate instructions stored in different locations which when joined logically together comprise the module and achieve the stated purpose for the module.

Indeed a module of executable code may be a single instruction or many instructions and may even be distributed over several different code segments among different programs and across several memory devices. Similarly operational data may be identified and illustrated herein within modules and may be embodied in any suitable form and organized within any suitable type of data structure. The operational data may be collected as a single data set or may be distributed over different locations including over different storage devices and may exist at least partially merely as electronic signals on a system or network. The modules may be passive or active including agents operable to perform desired functions.

Reference throughout this specification to an example or exemplary means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the example is included in at least one embodiment of the present invention. Thus appearances of the phrases in an example or the word exemplary in various places throughout this specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment.

As used herein a plurality of items structural elements compositional elements and or materials may be presented in a common list for convenience. However these lists should be construed as though each member of the list is individually identified as a separate and unique member. Thus no individual member of such list should be construed as a de facto equivalent of any other member of the same list solely based on their presentation in a common group without indications to the contrary. In addition various embodiments and example of the present invention may be referred to herein along with alternatives for the various components thereof. It is understood that such embodiments examples and alternatives are not to be construed as defacto equivalents of one another but are to be considered as separate and autonomous representations of the present invention.

Furthermore the described features structures or characteristics may be combined in any suitable manner in one or more embodiments. In the following description numerous specific details are provided such as examples of layouts distances network examples etc. to provide a thorough understanding of embodiments of the invention. One skilled in the relevant art will recognize however that the invention can be practiced without one or more of the specific details or with other methods components layouts etc. In other instances well known structures materials or operations are not shown or described in detail to avoid obscuring aspects of the invention.

While the forgoing examples are illustrative of the principles of the present invention in one or more particular applications it will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art that numerous modifications in form usage and details of implementation can be made without the exercise of inventive faculty and without departing from the principles and concepts of the invention. Accordingly it is not intended that the invention be limited except as by the claims set forth below.

