---

title: Triboelectric nanogenerator
abstract: A generator includes a first cylindrical member and a second cylindrical member. The first cylindrical member includes a first dielectric layer including a first material that has a first rating on a triboelectric series; and a first conductive strip disposed around an exterior surfaces of the first cylindrical member. The first conductive strip includes a second material that has a second rating on the triboelectric series that is different from the first rating. The second cylindrical member is disposed about the first cylindrical member and includes a second dielectric layer that includes the first material. The second cylindrical member also includes the second material and at least one second conductive strip disposed around an interior surface of the second cylindrical member. A sliding mechanism causes lateral relative motion between the first cylindrical member against the second cylindrical member, generating an electric potential imbalance between the first and second conductive strip.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09543860&OS=09543860&RS=09543860
owner: Georgia Tech Research Corporation
number: 09543860
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150805
---
This application is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 189 656 filed Feb. 25 2014 which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 771 371 filed Mar. 1 2013 the entirety of each of which is hereby incorporated herein by reference.

This invention was made with government support under agreement No. DE FG02 07ER46394 awarded by the Department of Energy. The government has certain rights in the invention.

The present invention relates to generators and more specifically to a system for generating voltage and current using the triboelectric effect.

Energy harvesting by converting ambient energy into electricity may offset the reliance of small portable electronics on traditional power supplies such as batteries. When long term operation of a large number of electronic devices in dispersed locations is required energy harvesting has the advantages of outstanding longevity relatively little maintenance minimal disposal and contamination.

When two materials at least one of which is non conducting come into contact with each other a chemical bond known as adhesion is formed between the two materials. Depending on the triboelectric properties of the materials one material may capture some of the electrons from the other material. If the two materials are separated from each other a charge imbalance will occur. The material that captured the electron will negatively charged and the material that lost an electron will be positively charged. This charge imbalance gives rise to what is sometimes referred to as static electricity. The term static in this case is somewhat deceptive as it implies a lack of motion when in reality motion is necessary for charge imbalances to flow. The spark one feels upon touching a door knob is an example of such flow.

The triboelectric effect is a type of contact electrification in which certain materials become electrically charged after they come into contact with another such as through friction. It is the mechanism though which static electricity is generated. The triboelectric effects associated electrostatic phenomena are the most common electrical phenomena in daily life from walking to driving. However the triboelectric effect has been largely ignored as an energy source for electricity. Some electrostatic micro generators have been developed and used in research relating to micro electro mechanical systems MEMS but such designs rely on an extra voltage source to charge electrode plates instead of harnessing triboelectric effect leading to complicated structures and fabrication processes.

Previously demonstrated triboelectric generators require periodic contact and vertical separation of two materials that have opposite triboelectric polarities making it only applicable to harvest energy from intermittent impact or shock. Such systems typically include a cavity with a constantly changing volume which makes packaging difficult and limits applications in atmospheres with high humidity corrosive chemicals or gases and in water or other liquids.

Mechanisms using piezoelectric electrostatic or electromagnetic principles to harvest energy from random vibrations wind flow air pressure or human body motions have been developed and applied as generators or self powered sensors. Recently the development of triboelectric nanogenerators TENGs offers a new paradigm for fabricating high output and cost effective generators for driving small electronics. Reciprocating motion is a very common mechanical motion occurs in natural oscillations motion of waves swing of human limbs and mechanical piston movements etc. Features of these motions that include long reciprocating distance low frequencies and amplitude or frequency fluctuations pose challenges for previously developed vibration harvesters which were only suited to low amplitude and high frequency excitations induced by inertia forces.

Therefore there is a need for a reliable small and easily manufactured system for harvesting triboelectric energy from reciprocating motion.

The disadvantages of the prior art are overcome by the present invention which in one aspect is a generator that includes a first member a second member and a sliding mechanism. The first member includes a first electrode and a first dielectric layer affixed to the first electrode. The first dielectric layer includes a first material that has a first rating on a triboelectric series. The second member includes a second material that has a second rating on the triboelectric series that is different from the first rating. The second member includes a second electrode. The second member is disposed adjacent to the first dielectric layer so that the first dielectric layer is disposed between the first electrode and the second electrode. The sliding mechanism is configured to move the first member laterally against the second member in a first direction thereby generating an electric potential imbalance between the first electrode and the second electrode.

In another aspect the invention is a method of generating electricity in which a first member is placed against a second member. The first member includes a first electrode and a first dielectric layer affixed to the first electrode the first dielectric layer including a first material that has a first rating on a triboelectric series. The second member includes a second material that has a second rating on the triboelectric series that is different from the first rating. The second member also includes a second electrode. The second member is disposed adjacent to the first dielectric layer so that the first dielectric layer is disposed between the first electrode and the second electrode. The first member is slid laterally against the second member along a first direction so that when at least a portion of the first member has slid apart from at least a portion of the second member an electric potential imbalance occurs between the first electrode and the second electrode.

In yet another aspect the invention is a generator that includes a first cylindrical member and a second cylindrical member. The first cylindrical member includes a first dielectric layer including a first material that has a first rating on a triboelectric series and at least one first conductive strip disposed around an exterior surfaces of the first cylindrical member. The first conductive strip includes a second material that has a second rating on the triboelectric series that is different from the first rating. The second cylindrical member is disposed about the first cylindrical member and includes a second dielectric layer that includes the first material. The second cylindrical member also includes at least one second conductive strip disposed around an exterior surface of the second cylindrical member. The second conductive strip includes the second material. A sliding mechanism is configured to cause lateral relative motion between the first cylindrical member against the second cylindrical member thereby generating an electric potential imbalance between the first conductive strip and the second conductive strip.

In another aspect the first conductive strip is disposed on an interior surface of the first cylindrical member and the second conductive strip is disposed on an interior surface of the second cylindrical member.

These and other aspects of the invention will become apparent from the following description of the preferred embodiments taken in conjunction with the following drawings. As would be obvious to one skilled in the art many variations and modifications of the invention may be effected without departing from the spirit and scope of the novel concepts of the disclosure.

A preferred embodiment of the invention is now described in detail. Referring to the drawings like numbers indicate like parts throughout the views. Unless otherwise specifically indicated in the disclosure that follows the drawings are not necessarily drawn to scale. As used in the description herein and throughout the claims the following terms take the meanings explicitly associated herein unless the context clearly dictates otherwise the meaning of a an and the includes plural reference the meaning of in includes in and on. 

Related U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 598 132 filed on Aug. 29 2012 by Wang et al. and Ser. No. 14 032 864 filed on Sep. 20 2013 by Wang et al. disclose methods of making triboelectric generators and components thereof and are both incorporated herein by reference for the purpose of disclosing such methods.

The present invention includes a triboelectric nanogenerator TENG that converts small scale mechanical energy into electricity by sliding two surfaces laterally against each other. The principle of the TENG is based on sliding electrification between two surfaces which expands the applicability of the TENG for diverse forms of mechanical motions.

As shown in a basic sliding embodiment of a TENG includes a first member disposed oppositely from a second member . The first member includes a first electrode and a first dielectric layer coupled thereto. The second member can serve as both a contact surface and an electrode. In one embodiment the second member can simply include a layer of aluminum or other conductive material that is at a different position on a triboelectric series that the first dielectric layer the first dielectric layer can include a PTFE film and the first electrode can include a metal such as copper. The first electrode may be coupled to the second electrode through a load . While not shown in for the sake of simplicity both the first member and the second member may each be mounted on a suitable substrate such as an acrylic plate. The first member and the second member do not have to be planar. They can be curved surfaces as long as they are parallel and have conformal contact with each other.

When the first dielectric layer is placed against the second member as shown in the triboelectric effect causes electrons to be transferred from the second member to the first dielectric layer thereby causing a net negative charge in the first dielectric layer and a net positive charge in the second member . As the first member is in contact with the second member over their entire surfaces the charges are balanced out. However when a lateral force is applied to the second member causing it to slide away from the first member as shown in then the extra electrons in the first dielectric layer stay in place due to the charge immobility associated with a dielectric while positive charges in the second member move away from the first dielectric layer causing a potential imbalance between the first member and the second member . This then causes electrons to flow from the first electrode through the load to the second member . When the second member is slid at its maximum offset from the first member as shown in all of the negative charges held by the first dielectric layer are balanced with corresponding positive charges in the first electrode while the second member is electrically neutral.

When the second member is slid back over the first member as shown in electrons flow back from the first electrode through the load into the second member thereby more closely balancing the charges with the first dielectric layer . This causes a current to flow through the load in an opposite direction from the direction it flowed during the motion shown in . Once the second member returns to the position shown in the charges are again balanced between the first dielectric layer and the second member . The same would hold true if the first member is slid over the second member or if both members are in motion so that there is relative sliding motion between the two members. 

The cycle shown in can repeat itself thereby generating an alternating current if the TENG is adapted with a sliding mechanism to receive force from a reciprocating motion source. The force can be directly applied or it can be an inertial force due to acceleration. For example the reciprocating motion source could be the repetitive footfalls of a person walking or wave motion or motion coming from a biological system such as a heartbeat or gusting wind or one of many other types of repetitive motion.

One experimental embodiment of a TENG has a structure in which two contacting surfaces that can slide smoothly with one against the other. Acrylic was selected as a substrate material due to its decent strength light weight and good machinability. On one substrate aluminum thin film plays dual roles of an electrode and a sliding surface. On the other substrate copper electrode is sandwiched between the substrate and a PTFE film. The PTFE film acts as another sliding surface. At its original position the two sliding surfaces are fully aligned with one sitting freely on the other. Driven by a tangential force applied to a substrate relative displacement in contact mode occurs in lateral direction. After the two surfaces are fully displaced the reciprocating force retraces them back to the aligned position.

The principle of the TENG is explained by the coupling between triboelectric effect and electrostatic effect. Once the PTFE film is brought into contact with the aluminum thin film surface charge transfer takes place due to the triboelectric effect or contact electrification. Since PTFE is much more triboelectrically negative than aluminum electrons are injected from aluminum into PTFE. At the aligned position though triboelectric charges present on the surfaces positive ones on aluminum are fully compensated by the negative ones on PTFE producing no electric field in the surrounding space if the electric field at the edge is ignored. Once a relative displacement is introduced by an externally applied force in the direction parallel to the surfaces triboelectric charges are not compensated at the displaced mismatched areas resulting in the creation of an effective dipole polarization parallel to the direction of the displacement. Therefore the uncompensated charges generate electric potential difference EDP across the two electrodes. If the electric potential of the copper electrode is set to be zero the EDP can be analytically expressed as a function of the displacement under simplified approximations.

If the two electrodes are electrically connected once displacement is established the uncompensated negative triboelectric charges on PTFE will repulsively drive free electrons on the copper electrode to the aluminum electrode neutralizing the positive triboelectric charges and leaving behind positive induced charges. The flow of induced electrons lasts until the displacement reaches the maximum. Based on assumptions made in the analytical model the induced charges equal the triboelectric charges in quantity. Therefore at fully displaced position the positive triboelectric charges are completely balanced out by induced electrons indicating no more current flow. As the displacement is diminished by the reciprocating force the induced electrons flow back to the copper electrode until the fully aligned position is restored. Therefore in the entire process alternating current AC is produced through the external load.

To characterize the performance of an TENG with a plate size of 6.4 cm by 3.8 cm the short circuit current I and open circuit voltage V were measured at an average sliding velocity of 0.6 m s introduced by a linear motor. It was found that the Iexhibits peaks of alternating directions. Increasing displacement gives a positive current peak while shrinking displacement leads to a negative one. No electric current is produced at either aligned or entirely displaced position. The Vswitches between zero and a maximum value which corresponds to the aligned and fully displaced positions respectively. Enabled by a full wave diode bridge the AC electric output can be rectified to a DC signal. With a diode bridge the total accumulative induced charges independent of sliding direction can be added up. In this embodiment 3very step represents an output current resulting from a one way sliding motion generating 0.6 C of induced charges on average. Correspondingly the area density of the triboelectric charges is calculated to be 257 C m.

In an experimental embodiment of such a dielectric dielectric system the sliding triboelectric nanogenerator includes two plates 71 mm 50 mm with glass slides as the supporting substrates to ensure the surface flatness. Polyamide 6 6 Nylon and polytetrafluoroethylene PTFE films the two polymers at the opposite ends of the triboelectric series are chosen as the triboelectric layers adhered on surfaces of the glass slides for effective electrification during sliding. On each polymer film a layer of metal electrode was deposited on the side next to the glass slide named as top electrode for the one on Nylon and bottom electrode for the one on PTFE . The two plates are kept in parallel to each other and the polymeric surfaces are in intimate contact. As driven by the mechanical motion vibration along the long edge of the plate the two plates slide against each other with the contact area changing periodically. In order to enhance the triboelectric charge density on the surface the PTFE film was dry etched using inductive coupled plasma ICP to create aligned nanowire structures which increase the surface roughness and the effective surface area. The PTFE surface is uniformly covered with nanowire structures with an average length of 1.5 m. The PTFE covered plate was bonded to a stationary stage while the Nylon side was fastened to a parallel flat end rail guide which was connected to a linear motor for inducing an in plane sliding motion.

In this embodiment the triboelectrification will leave the Nylon surface with net positive charges and the PTFE with net negative charges with equal density. Since the tribo charges on the insulators will only distribute in the surface layer and will not be leaked out for an extended period of time the separation between the positively charged surface and negatively charged surface is negligible at this overlapping position and thus there will be little electric potential drop across the two electrodes. Once the top plate with the positively charged surface starts to slide outward the in plane charge separation is initiated due to the decrease in contact surface area. The separated charges will generate an electric field pointing from the right to the left almost parallel to the plates inducing a higher potential at the top electrode. This potential difference will drive a current flow from the top electrode to the bottom electrode in order to generate an electric potential drop that cancels the tribo charge induced potential. Because the vertical distance between the electrode layer and the tribo charged polymeric surface is negligible compared to the lateral charge separation distance the amount of the transferred charges on the electrodes approximately equals the amount of the separated charges at any sliding displacement. Thus the current flow will continue with the continuation of the on going sliding process that keeps increasing the separated charges until the top plate fully slides out of the bottom plate and the tribo charged surfaces are entirely separated.

Subsequently when the top plate is reverted to slide backwards the separated charges begin to get in contact again but no annihilation due to the insulator nature of the polymer materials. The redundant transferred charges on the electrodes will flow back through the external load with the increase of the contact area in order to keep the electrostatic equilibrium. This will contribute to a current flow from the bottom electrode to the top electrode along with the second half cycle of sliding. Once the two plates reach the overlapping position the charged surfaces get into fully contact again. There will be no transferred charges left on the electrode and the device returns to the initial state in. In this entire cycle the processes of sliding outwards and inwards are symmetric so a pair of symmetric alternating current peaks should be expected.

The model constructed here has the same structure and dimensions 71 mm 50 mm in surface with the real device and those two tribo charged surfaces are assigned with a charge density of 70 C m respectively. The device is in open circuit condition which means no electron transfer between the two electrodes. When the two plates are in the fully aligned stacking position there is no potential difference generated. When the top plate slides about half way out with a displacement of 41 mm there will be a 2950 V potential difference between the two electrodes and this potential difference will increase to 1.03 10V when the top plate just slides out of touching the bottom plate with a displacement of 71 mm . The voltage keeps increasing when the displacement gets larger even after the plates slide out of each other. This is because the voltage is the path integral of the electric field along the displacement. On the other hand the amounts of transferred charges between the two electrodes under these different displacements are also simulated through equating the potential of the electrodes at the short circuit condition. The amount of transferred charges increases linearly with the displacement before the top plate slides out of the bottom plate with the displacement smaller than 71 mm . Different from the trend of the voltage the amount of transferred charges will saturate at the total amount of tribo charges on one surface after the plates have fully slid out of each other because there is no further charge separation here. So the effective displacement region for generating electricity is between 0 mm and 71 mm where the contact area of the two plates is changed during the relative sliding of the two plates.

The electrical output of the sliding TENG was measured with one plate guided by the linear motor in the direction parallel to the long edge of the plates. The sliding displacement was 71 mm which was the same with the length of the plate and thus covered the entire effective region for generating electricity. The sliding movement was in a symmetric acceleration deceleration mode with the acceleration rate of 20 m s. The open circuit voltage V was measured by an electrometer with very large input resistance. The electrode at the back of Nylon film was connected to the positive probe. When the plates in the TENG slid from the contact position to the separated position the Vjumped from 0 to 1300 V which reflects the induced potential difference between the two electrodes by the in plane charge separation. At the separation position the Vdecayed a little bit due to the slow charge leakage through the electrometer. When the TENG slid back to the contact position the Vjumped back to 0. The density of the transferred charge was also measured at the short circuit condition. Charges with a density of 105 C mtransferred back and forth between the two electrodes while the plates slid in and out. Since the plates got fully separated in each cycle the transferred charge density should approximately equal to the triboelectric charge density on the polymeric surfaces. With these experimental results the measured Vis smaller than the simulated potential difference which is possibly due to the limitation of the electrical measurement system to record such a high voltage and the imperfection from the ideal open circuit condition. The transfer of the charges between the electrodes in the outer circuits produced an alternating current output with the peak short circuit current density J of 4.1 mA mat a maximum sliding velocity of 1.2 m s. In this experimental embodiment with such a power output converted from the sliding motion hundreds of commercial light emitting diodes LEDs were instantaneously driven by a single TENG device.

The TENG s effective output power to the loads depends on the match with the resistance of the load. When the resistance is below 1 M the output current density and the voltage have little changes from the short circuit condition the current density remains at a value of Jwhile the voltage stays close to 0. This is because the TENG has infinitely large inner resistance. When the resistance goes beyond 1 M the current density will drop with the increase of the resistance while the voltage on the load increases. Consequently the instantaneous power density on the load remains close to 0 with the resistance below 1 M and reaches the maximum value of 0.42 W mat a resistance of 50 M . This is the maximum output power density on the device.

The output of the planar sliding driven TENG is directly determined by the parameters of the sliding motion the displacement and the velocity because the flow of electricity originates from the tribo charge separation under sliding. As simulated before the two plates fully slide out of each other with a displacement smaller than 71 mm the voltage increases monotonically with the displacement. Also if there is a uniform tribo charge distribution on the polymeric surface the total amount of transferred charges will have a linear relationship with the displacement which can be expressed in charge density as 

A systematic study of these relationships between the electrical outputs Vand J and the sliding conditions was carried out experimentally. In the first group of experiments the electrical outputs were measured under a series of 7 different sliding displacements from 11 mm to 71 mm with an acceleration kept at 20 m s. It was found that the Vincreases with the displacement which is in accordance with simulation results. The measured transferred charge density displays a linear relationship with the displacement which can be linearly fitted with the correlation coefficient of 0.981. As for the peak value of Jwhich is in proportional to the maximum velocity v it also has a positive correlation with the displacement. This is because vhas such a relationship with the displacement 5 where a is the acceleration and L is the total displacement the displacement for each acceleration and deceleration process is L 2 respectively .

When the sliding displacement remains at a constant value of 71 mm the maximum velocity of the sliding is solely determined by the acceleration. Thus the acceleration was varied to investigate the velocity s influence on the output. It was found that Vhas very little increase with the rising acceleration which is also consistent with the theoretical expectation that Vis only determined by the displacement. However the changing rate of the voltage will depend on the sliding velocity. The higher the velocity the faster the voltage increases decreases in sliding. As for the output current the peak value of Jgets larger at higher acceleration because of the larger maximum velocity in sliding. However the sliding velocity has no influence on the transferred charge density under the constant displacement.

Because the essence in the working mechanism of the sliding TENG is the cycled switching between the separation and full contact of the opposite tribo charges there should be little electricity generated in the following two cases 1 If the sliding motion does not result in the change of the contact area between two plates for example if a smaller plate slides inside the perimeter of a larger plate at all time then little output can be measured. This is because there is no polarization generated in this case. 2 If the two plates do not fully in tight contact with each other at the overlapping position there is always a vertical gap distance between them which results in two cases the first is that little triboelectric charges are generated the second case is that if there are triboelectric charges on the plates the gap between them in the vertical direction quickly decays the strength of electrostatic interaction resulting in a reduced output. When the vertical distance between the two plates of the TENG is gradually increased from 0 to 2 mm the output voltage current and transferred charges all quickly decay to zero.

The planar sliding mode TENG disclosed herein has several advantages including 1 This TENG design does not need a gap between the two plates. Thus it will be unnecessary to have elastic supporting components such as springs between the two plates to ensure the effective charge separation. This brings up a lot of convenience in packaging the TENG device 2 there is no need for a large amount of mechanical energy input to trigger this TENG design which can help to improve the energy harvesting efficiency. The mechanical energy only needs to overcome the work done by the sliding friction between the two plates. 3 This TENG design is simple in structure easy in fabrication compact in volume stable in performance cost effective and robust. With these advantages such in plane charge separation based TENGs can harvest mechanical energies in the form of relative sliding that are supplied by many different working configurations for example the relative rotation of two contacting plates the vibration of the piston the rotation of the axis to its tube and so on. Besides those types of mechanical energy that can drive the relative sliding between two objects can also be harvested using this principle of in plane charge separation based TENG which can greatly expand the application of this type of TENG to scavenge mechanical energy from wind power oceanic wave human activities and so on.

As shown in the first dielectric layer can include a first grating of evenly spaced apart parallel ridges and troughs . Similarly the second member can include a second grating first grating of evenly spaced apart parallel ridges and troughs . As can be seen in while the overall surface contact area density of this embodiment is essentially one half that of the embodiment shown in the total sliding distance necessary for maximum charge transfer is limited to the width of a single ridge. Thus depending on the width of the ridges which can be microscale using lithographic techniques this embodiment can generate its maximum current with an extremely small scale source of reciprocal motion such as vibrations . These embodiments can be made using well known thin film application processes for applying layers to the substrates and standard lithographic techniques for etching the troughs.

As shown in one embodiment includes a first member having a first electrode mounted on a first rigid substrate and a first dielectric layer applied thereto and a second member having a second electrode mounted on a second rigid substrate and a second dielectric layer mounted thereto. As shown in a two dielectric layer embodiment can also include gratings formed in the first dielectric layer and the second dielectric layer .

Introducing linear grating on the sliding surfaces enables the new principle to become an extremely efficient means for energy harvesting and it is far superior to the previously demonstrated ones in total output charge current frequency and efficiency. A linear grating with a uniform period is fabricated on both sliding surfaces. The rows of the grating units have the same size as intervals in between with all rows being electrically connected at both ends by two buses. The grating patterns on both sliding surfaces are identical so that they can match well with each other when aligned. Although the grating design reduces the total contact area by half thus seemingly sacrifices half of the triboelectric charges it increases the percentage of the mismatched area to 100 for a displacement of only a grating unit length rather than the entire length of the TENG so that it dramatically increases the transport efficiency of the induced charges. Induced free electrons can be pumped back and forth between electrodes for multiple times due to the grating structure providing multi folds of output charge compared to a non grating TENG. Every row of the grating units can be considered as a reduced sized TENG having a parallel connection with all other rows through buses. In contrast to a non grating TENG that needs to be fully displaced in order to complete pumping of the induced charges for one time the grating TENG only requires a displacement of a unit length to completely transport the induced charges largely improving the energy conversion efficiency. With further displacement of another length of the unit back flow of the induced charges can be realized. Therefore for a one way sliding process across the whole length of the TENG the induced charges can be pumped for 2N 1 times in total where N is the number of grating units. If we take into account that the contacting area decreases as the two surfaces slide apart the following equation represents the total induced charges Q that the grating TENG can provide for a single sliding across the entire length of the TENG 

The total maximum induced charges generated by a non grating TENG can be equivalently expressed as 2q N. Therefore Eq. 6 indicates that the total induced charges linearly increase with the grating density. Experimental data from grating TENGs with more units further confirm the validity of the theoretical analysis.

Though the experimental data closely match the theoretical values for N 4 slight deviation starts to appear if N further increases. The deviation may be attributed to two probable reasons. The first is non ideal orientation mismatch. The two sliding surfaces are likely to have an angle of mismatch that is introduced by experimental operation. As the length of the grating units shrinks the angle of mismatch will exert more substantial effect on the effective contact area between the two surfaces leading to increasingly reduced output charge. This effect can be largely eliminated by more precise alignment during experiment operation. Secondly assumptions made in the analytical theory may become imprecise for very fine grating units due to the edge effect of each unit. The assumption of infinite charged plane will no longer hold once the grating edges can dominantly affect the electric field distribution leading to reduced quantity of induced charges. Further systematic investigation by both experiment and simulation is required to quantitatively understand this non ideal effect. As experimentally observed Vis only weakly related to the number of grating units though slight reduction can be observed. The reduction can also be attributed to the increasingly stronger effect from the mismatched angle. Besides finer grating units will theoretically give a smaller V though this effect may be dominant only when the grating unit has a length approaching the PTFE s thickness. The advantages of the grating structure include not only the enhanced total transported charges but also improved output current. With constant sliding velocity finer grating shortens the time to transport induced charges between the electrodes for one time resulting in higher output current. However the peak of Idoes not increase linearly with the number of units which may result from non uniform velocity during sliding process.

To demonstrate the capability of the new principle as a direct power source a total of 80 commercial LED bulbs were utilized as operating load. They were divided into two groups which were connected to a TENG with reversed polarity in order to clearly demonstrate the AC output without rectification. One substrate of the TENG was fixed on a breadboard where the LEDs were installed while the other one was attached to human fingers. As the hand swept back and forth the sliding was realized. It was noticed that faster sweeping generated higher current peaks as compared with those from slower sweeping. Due to the AC output the two LED groups were alternately lighted up as indicated by ON and OFF states.

Besides the planar design other configurations include concentric discs having relative rotation and coaxial tubes having either rotational motion or reciprocating piston motion. The principles demonstrated for the grating TENG can be applied to other configurations. For example as shown in in one embodiment of a TENG the first member and the second member are cylindrical. The first dielectric layer includes a first grating of evenly spaced apart parallel ridges and troughs and the second member includes a second grating of parallel ridges and troughs . All of the ridges and troughs extend parallel to the axis of the cylinder. Thus when either the first member or the second member is rotated about the cylindrical axis or both rotated so long as there is relative motion between them the ridges of the second member and the first member will come in and out of contact. This embodiment is effective when it is desired to turn rotational motion into electricity. In the embodiment shown in the ridges and troughs of the first grating and the second grating are disposed circumferentially about the cylinder and the sliding mechanism is configured to apply reciprocating motion along the cylindrical axis to either the first member or the second member or both so long as there is relative motion between them thereby converting the reciprocating motion into electricity. In the embodiment shown in the ridges and troughs of the first grating and the second grating extend radially outwardly from a central axis of a disk. Electricity is generated when at least one of the first member and the second member is caused to rotate around the central axis of the disks or both can be rotating so long as there is relative rotational motion between them .

An analytical model for calculating the open circuit voltage of a TENG is now presented using the diagram shown in . For simplicity of the mathematical derivation the analytical model is built based on the following assumptions 

 1 The two sliding surfaces of the TENG are infinitely large because the lateral dimension is much larger than the vertical thickness.

 2 The generated triboelectric charges which are non mobile and non annihilative are uniformly distributed on the two surfaces. This is an excellent approximation if the two materials are insulative. In a case that one side is metal this approximation is made for easy derivation.

 3 Both the aluminum and the PTFE thin film can be simplified as planar surfaces which retain their shapes instead of having deformation when sliding laterally. Once the two surfaces contact with each other triboelectric charges are created due to contact electrification. Based on assumption 2 and assumption 3 the lateral displacement l brings about uncompensated positive and negative triboelectric charges in the displaced areas on the upper surface and the lower surface respectively.

If we define the electric potential of the copper electrode U to be zero the open circuit voltage of the TENG is equal to the electric potential of the electrode U that is S1 Also the electric potential difference can be expressed as S2 

Meanwhile given assumption 1 and 2 we can consider the upper surface as charged plate of infinity in size so that the electric lines of force are perpendicular to the surface of the plate as well as the patch from Pto P. As a result 0 S3 and S4 

In order to calculate the electric field strength Ein the path from Pto P let us consider an infinite charged line in the displaced area on the upper surface. And the corresponding electric field strength Eat Pcan be quantitatively expressed as

However only the component along Z axis of the electric filed strength Eis parallel to the electric field making the effective electric filed strength expressed as

Thus the total electric filed strength Egenerated at Palong the z axis by the triboelectric charges on the entire displaced area of the upper surface can be calculated as

The energy conversion efficiency can be estimated through the conversation of energy. According to the definition 

The maximum electrical energy generated by the sliding TENG in a half cycle be estimated using the data of the TENG s output characteristic when driving external load. The highest power output is reached at the resistance of 80 M which will correspond to the maximum electric energy output E . It can be calculated according to the following equation E IRdt

The curve of IR vs. t R 80 M can be derived from the corresponding I vs. t curve and through the integration of one IR peak in a half cycle we can get E 0.145 mJ.

In general the mechanical energy input for driving the sliding TENG is converted into two parts the electrostatic energy E of the two oppositely charged plates at the fully displaced position and the electrical energy E the TENG generated in the sliding process.

As for the electrostatic energy E it can be estimated as where Uand Uare the potentials at the top plate and bottom plate respectively and A is the area of the plate which is 35.5 cm. In this estimation we assume each charged plane has a uniform potential which is reasonable as shown in the simulated results of the potential distribution. From the electrical measurement of the TENG Vis 1300 V and is 105 C m. Thus we can get 1300 V 105 10 35.5 10C 0.485 mJ

The other part of energy input is the heat dissipated during mechanical sliding which is rather difficulty to estimate for the current design. If we ignore this component the maximum energy conversion efficiency can be estimated as follows 

While many different materials can be organized according to a triboelectric series the following is one representative example of a triboelectric series 

Here we report a compact case encapsulated triboelectric nanogenerator cTENG that targets reciprocating motions driven by either direct or inertia forces. The cTENG relies on electrode pairs that have fine grating patterns on cylindrical sliding surfaces to generate alternating current. In an embodiment that operates at a sliding velocity of 1 m s over a sliding distance of 3.8 cm such a cTENG with an effective contact area of 90 cmcould generate an output charge of 12.7 C in a single full slide which corresponds to an average output DC current of as high as 0.35 mA. At the matched load of 140 k an average output power of 12.2 mW can be achieved. A cTENG of this type can be used to harness oscillating motion from sources such as human and water wave motion as an indication of its potential in portable self powered electronics and power generation.

As shown in the structural configuration of one representative embodiment of a cTENG uses two concentric cylinders that can slide one against the other. The basic principle of the cTENG relies on sliding triboelectrification at the interface. The case wrap applied tightly around the outer cylinder allows the two cylindrical structures to move in a coaxial 1 D motion relative to each other. Polyimide film Kapton can be used as an electrification material for generating triboelectric charges and also as the supporting substrate. Kapton film can be used as it possesses good electrification and tensile strength properties leading to a high performance in electricity generation and durability. On both sides of the Kapton film copper stripes which in one embodiment have a width of 2 mm are deposited with a linear pitch of 4 mm. The electrode patterns on different sides exhibit a linear shift of half pitch so that they are complementary to each other. Two Kapton films and have the same electrode patterns formed a pair of contact surfaces. All copper stripes on the two contact surfaces are connected by bus electrodes to form a common inner electrode IE while those on back surfaces of the Kapton films constituted an outer electrode OE . Spherical polytetrafluoroethylene PTFE nanoparticles as seen in are spread between the contact surfaces as a lubricant to reduce friction and to further improve energy conversion efficiency. The two prepared Kapton films and with electrodes are applied on the outer surface of a PMMA tube and the inner surface of a foam tube respectively. A fully assembled cTENG is shown in .

In one embodiment the copper strips can be disposed circumferentially about the Kapton films. In another embodiment the copper strips can be disposed helically about the Kapton films.

The above described embodiments while including the preferred embodiment and the best mode of the invention known to the inventor at the time of filing are given as illustrative examples only. It will be readily appreciated that many deviations may be made from the specific embodiments disclosed in this specification without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. Accordingly the scope of the invention is to be determined by the claims below rather than being limited to the specifically described embodiments above.

