---

title: Systems and methods for converting radio frequency signals into the digital domain using multi-mode optics
abstract: A multi-mode optic can receive as input a radio-frequency (RF) signal imposed on an optical carrier, and can output a speckle pattern. A digital representation of the radio-frequency signal can be obtained based on the speckle pattern. An optical sensor can be irradiated with a first portion of the speckle pattern, the first portion of the speckle pattern including an optical intensity profile that is different than an optical intensity profile of a second, spatially separated, portion of the speckle pattern. The multi-mode optic can impose the optical intensity profile on the first portion of the speckle pattern as a function of wavelength of the optical carrier. The optical intensity profiles of portions of the speckle pattern can define a mixing matrix. The digital representation of the RF signal can be obtained based on an output of the optical sensor and the mixing matrix.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09413372&OS=09413372&RS=09413372
owner: The Aerospace Corporation
number: 09413372
owner_city: El Segundo
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150730
---
This invention was made with government support under Contract No. FA8802 14 C 0001 awarded by the Department of the Air Force. The government has certain rights in the invention.

This application generally relates to systems and methods for converting signals such as radio frequency signals into the digital domain.

An analog to digital converter ADC is a device that converts continuous analog signals to discrete digital numbers. Generally an ADC samples an input signal at a predetermined sampling rate calculated using the Nyquist Shannon Sampling Theorem. Under that theorem perfect reconstruction of a continuous time signal can be obtained if the sampling rate is greater than twice the highest frequency of the signal. Sampling at twice the highest frequency may however not be possible especially for wideband signals or the resolution effective number of bits obtained at this rate may not be sufficient. A wideband signal can be defined as a signal operating at a wide range of frequencies e.g. above 1 GHz. For these reasons previously known ADCs may be inadequate to handle wideband applications in for example electronic warfare radar cognitive radio signals intelligence telecommunications and signal sampling in space. Moreover previously known ADCs rely on high speed high power electronics that can be cumbersome power hungry and expensive.

Embodiments of the present invention provide systems and methods for converting signals such as radio frequency RF signals into the digital domain using multi mode optics. For example a wideband analog signal such as an RF signal can be imposed onto an optical carrier processed in the optical domain using one or more multi mode optical elements and converted to the electronic domain so as to convert the wideband analog signal into a digital signal using relatively low cost relatively low data rate and relatively low power analog to digital converters ADCs . In some embodiments such conversion and processing is performed using multi mode guided wave optical elements so as to reduce or avoid the need for high bandwidth electronics as well as free space optics although in other embodiments a multi mode free space optical element can be used. The elements of the system suitably can be integrated into a unitary platform e.g. with some or all components of the system integrated onto one or more suitable substrates.

Under one aspect a method is provided for obtaining a digital representation of a radio frequency signal. The method can include inputting into a multi mode optic the radio frequency signal imposed on an optical carrier. The method also can include outputting by the multi mode optic a speckle pattern based on the radio frequency signal imposed on the optical carrier. The method further can include obtaining the digital representation of the radio frequency signal based on the speckle pattern.

In some embodiments the multi mode optic includes a multi mode guided wave optic. In some embodiments the multi mode guided wave optic includes a fiber. In some embodiments the multi mode guided wave optic includes a planar waveguide.

In some embodiments the method further includes irradiating an optical sensor with a first portion of the speckle pattern the first portion of the speckle pattern including an optical intensity profile that is different than an optical intensity profile of a second portion of the speckle pattern the first portion of the speckle pattern being spatially separated from the second portion of the speckle pattern. In some embodiments the multi mode optic imposes the optical intensity profile on the first portion of the speckle pattern as a function of wavelength of the optical carrier upon which the radio frequency signal is imposed. In some embodiments the optical intensity profiles of at least the first and second portions of the speckle pattern define a mixing matrix. In some embodiments the method further includes obtaining a digitized electrical output of the optical sensor the digital representation being obtained based at least on the digitized electrical output and the mixing matrix.

Under another aspect a system is provided for obtaining a digital representation of a radio frequency signal. The system can include a multi mode optic configured to receive the radio frequency signal imposed on an optical carrier and to output a speckle pattern based on the radio frequency signal imposed on the optical carrier. The system also can include a signal recovery processor configured to obtain the digital representation of the radio frequency signal based on the speckle pattern.

In some embodiments the multi mode optic includes a multi mode guided wave optic. In some embodiments the multi mode guided wave optic includes a fiber. In some embodiments the multi mode guided wave optic includes a planar waveguide.

In some embodiments the system further includes an optical sensor configured to be irradiated with a first portion of the speckle pattern the first portion of the speckle pattern including an optical intensity profile that is different than an optical intensity profile of a second portion of the speckle pattern the first portion of the speckle pattern being spatially separated from the second portion of the speckle pattern. In some embodiments the multi mode optic imposes the optical intensity profile on the first portion of the speckle pattern as a function of wavelength of the optical carrier upon which the radio frequency signal is imposed. In some embodiments the optical intensity profiles of at least the first and second portions of the speckle pattern define a mixing matrix. In some embodiments the system further includes circuitry configured to obtain a digitized electrical output of the optical sensor the signal recovery processor being configured to obtain the digital representation based at least on the digitized electrical output and the mixing matrix.

Under still another aspect an integrated system is provided for obtaining a digital representation of a radio frequency signal. The integrated system can include a substrate a receiver configured to receive the radio frequency signal a source of an optical carrier and a modulator configured to impose the radio frequency signal onto the optical carrier. The system further can include a multi mode optic defined within the substrate and configured to receive the optical carrier having the radio frequency signal imposed thereon and to output a speckle pattern based on the optical carrier having the radio frequency signal imposed thereon. The system further can include an optical sensor configured to be irradiated with a first portion of the speckle pattern the first portion of the speckle pattern including an optical intensity profile that is different than an optical intensity profile of a second portion of the speckle pattern the first portion of the speckle pattern being spatially separated from the second portion of the speckle pattern. The system further can include a signal recovery processor coupled to the optical sensor and configured to obtain the digital representation of the radio frequency signal based on at least the first portion of the speckle pattern.

In some embodiments the receiver the source the modulator and the optical sensor are defined in or disposed on the substrate.

Embodiments of the present invention include systems and methods for obtaining a digital representation of a radio frequency RF signal using multi mode optics. The RF signal can be converted into the optical domain e.g. imposed on an optical carrier such as but not limited to a chirped optical pulse. A multi mode optic can receive the RF signal imposed on the optical carrier and based thereon can output a speckle pattern. The RF signal can be recovered e.g. converted into the digital domain based upon the speckle pattern. In some embodiments different spatially separated portions of the speckle pattern can define a mixing matrix such as can be used in compressive sensing. For example components of the optical carrier upon which the RF signal is imposed can interfere with one another as they traverse the length of the multi mode optic. As a result a first portion subset of the speckle pattern at the output of the multi mode optic can have an optical intensity profile as a function of wavelength that is different than an optical intensity profile of a second portion subset of the speckle pattern that is spatially separated from the first portion of the speckle pattern. The imposition of different optical intensity profiles of different spatially separated portions of the speckle pattern can be considered to correspond to multiplying replicas of the RF signal imposed on the optical carrier by elements of a mixing matrix. An optical sensor can be irradiated by the first portion of the speckle pattern and can integrate the optical intensity profile of that portion as a function of time or equivalently wavelength of the optical carrier. The integration of the optical intensity profile of that portion can be considered to correspond to obtaining an element of a measurement vector based upon which a compressive sensing algorithm can recover the RF signal using knowledge of the mixing matrix e.g. based on a prior calibration of integrated optical intensity profiles of different spatially separated portions of the speckle pattern.

An overview of exemplary systems for obtaining digital representations of RF signals using multi mode optics will be described along with exemplary signals that can be formed therein. An exemplary method for obtaining digital representations of signals will be described. Additionally some illustrative performance characteristics of exemplary multi mode optics suitable for use in the present systems and methods will be described.

Optical carrier source illustrated in can be configured to generate an optical carrier upon which the RF signal to be converted can be imposed. In some embodiments the optical carrier can include at least one wavelength e.g. can include a single frequency laser beam or a multi frequency laser beam. In some embodiments the optical carrier can include a plurality of wavelengths such as an optical pulse e.g. a chirped optical pulse. For example the optical carrier can but need not necessarily include a chirped repetitively pulsed optical signal. As used herein a chirped repetitively pulsed optical signal is intended to mean a sequence of chirped optical pulses that together have a relatively constant intensity as a function of time and have periodic temporal wavelength variations. is a plot illustrating the temporal variations in intensity of three exemplary chirped pulses that can be generated by optical carrier source and together can form a chirped repetitively pulsed optical signal that has a substantially continuous overall intensity in time as represented by I. illustrates three chirped pulses within the signal that begin at times t t and t respectively. After a chirped pulse begins its intensity increases over time until the intensity levels off at a plateau e.g. at I. Chirped pulses can have substantially the same energy as one another and can overlap slightly in the temporal domain. For example the intensity of pulse begins to decrease after time t when pulse begins. Pulses and overlap slightly after time t after which the intensity of pulse decreases to zero and the intensity of pulse increases to I. Preferably when the pulses overlap the sum of their intensities is approximately equal to I. As used herein the terms approximately and about mean within 10 of the stated value.

Referring again to optical carrier source can include a laser such as a continuous wave laser configured to generate a single frequency or a suitably pulsed laser such as a mode locked laser fiber laser titanium doped sapphire Ti Sapphire solid state laser diode laser or dye laser or any other suitable optical source. In some embodiments the laser can be configured so as to generate an optical pulse including a plurality of wavelengths e.g. at least one chirped optical pulse and optionally so as to generate a chirped repetitively pulsed optical signal without the need for an additional optical component. Alternatively a separate optical component can be provided for chirping an optical pulse or a repetitive sequence of such pulses generated by a laser or other suitable optical source. Such an optical component can include a guided wave optical component and can include for example a grating such as a chirped FBG a dispersion compensating fiber DCF or a standard optical fiber. In embodiments in which optical carrier source includes a pulsed laser the laser can be transform limited so as to produce ultrafast pulses e.g. 1 picosecond at full width at half maximum FWHM or less at a high bandwidth e.g. 10 nm at FWHM or more and the optical component can be configured to temporally disperse the bandwidth of at least one of those pulses and optionally to temporally disperse each of those pulses such that the pulses temporally overlap with one another resulting in a substantially uniform overall intensity Isuch as illustrated in . In some embodiments the pulsed laser can have a repetition rate of at least 1 MHz or at least 10 MHz or at least 100 MHz or at least 1 GHz resulting in a suitable interpulse period time difference between tand t and between tand t . For example a pulsed laser with a repetition rate of about 100 MHz has an interpulse period of about 10 ns. In some embodiments optical carrier source is a femtosecond fs class laser configured to generate laser pulses having a FWHM in the range of 1 fs to 1000 fs e.g. between 10 fs to 100 fs at FWHM optionally associated with a chirped FBG configured to positively linearly or negatively linearly chirp and temporally disperse the pulses in a manner analogous to that illustrated in . Additional exemplary sources for the optical carrier source can include but are not limited to an optical comb source a time and wavelength interleaved optical source and a supercontinuum source.

In one illustrative embodiment optical carrier source can include a theta laser such as disclosed in Shinwook Lee et al. IEEE Photonics Technology Letters Vol. 18 No. 7 799 801 Apr. 1 2006 the entire contents of which are incorporated by reference herein. The theta laser disclosed in Lee includes two optical circulators an intensity modulator an output coupler a bandpass filter a polarization controller a semiconductor optical amplifier an electric comb generator and chirped FBG. The theta laser can be used to generate a sequence of chirped optical pulses.

Signal generator is coupled to optical modulator and can be configured to generate a signal such as an analog radio frequency RF or digital RF signal. Signal generator can be any device capable of generating a signal which signal can be received from another component. For example signal generator can include an antenna configured to receive a remotely generated RF signal and to provide that RF signal to optical modulator e.g. via a wired or wireless signaling pathway not illustrated . Signal generator is suitably coupled to optical modulator such that modulator can impose the RF signal upon the optical carrier generated by optical carrier source . Signal generator need not necessarily be considered to be part of system and indeed can be remote from system .

The RF signal generated by signal generator can be wideband e.g. can have a bandwidth of 1 GHz or greater and can be analog and the RF signal s characteristics e.g. modulation format and the information content of the RF signal can be unknown. In some embodiments signal generator generates an analog RF signal. The analog RF signal can be sparse under a known transformation e.g. a Fourier or wavelet transformation. In the frequency domain a signal can be defined to be sparse if it includes or consists essentially of or consists of a relatively small number of narrowband transmissions spread across a relatively wide spectrum range. A sparse signal can be represented by a vector e.g. a vector having dimension N 1 having a relatively small number of nonzero elements.

Optical modulator can be configured to impose the RF signal e.g. RF analog signal onto the optical carrier generated by optical carrier source . For example schematically illustrates an exemplary optical modulator that is based on guided wave optics and is configured to receive an RF signal from signal generator and to impose the received RF signal on the optical carrier by modulating the intensity of the optical carrier according to some embodiments of the invention. Optical modulator illustrated in includes input optical fiber or waveguide electrodes voltage generator signal receiver and output optical fiber or waveguide . An optical carrier such as a chirped optical pulse or a chirped repetitively pulsed optical signal from optical carrier source is introduced to optical modulator through input optical fiber or waveguide . Junction divides that optical carrier into two portions and respectively guides the portions into sections and each of which can be defined with guided wave optics such as an optical fiber or waveguide. Electrodes are positioned on either side of sections . Voltage generator can be programmed to independently apply voltages to different pairs of electrodes so as to change the phase of the optical carrier portion traveling through the section adjacent to that pair. For example voltage generator can apply voltages proportional to the signal generated by signal generator and received by signal receiver . Signal receiver can be operatively coupled to voltage generator and can be any structure capable of receiving an RF signal such as an analog RF signal e.g. an antenna.

In optical modulator illustrated in the two portions of the optical carrier in sections can recombine at junction where they interfere with one another. Because the relative phase of the optical carrier portions traveling through sections can be controlled via voltage generator the intensity of the recombined optical carrier at junction can be modulated based on the signal received by signal receiver . For example if the portion of the optical carrier in section is phase delayed by an even multiple of it relative to that in section then when recombined at junction the two portions of the optical carrier constructively interfere with each other yielding maximum brightness. Or for example if the portion of the optical carrier in section is phase delayed by an odd multiple of relative to that in section then when recombined at junction the two portions destructively interfere with each other yielding minimal brightness. The output of optical modulator includes the RF signal imposed as an intensity modulation on the optical carrier. This output is coupled into a single output optical fiber or waveguide . Configurations such as that illustrated in can be referred to as a Mach Zehnder modulator MZM and can be implemented in a suitable substrate such as lithium niobate or indium phosphate InP in which waveguides can be provided that define input junction sections and junction and output . Other modulators such as absorptive modulators based on the Franz Keldysh effect or the quantum confined Stark effect or other interferometric modulators can also suitably be used.

Referring back to multi mode optic receives from optical modulator the RF signal imposed on the optical carrier. Multi mode optics can include guided wave optics and free space optics. In some embodiments multi mode optic includes a multi mode guided wave optic. For example the multi mode guided wave optic can include a fiber or a planar waveguide. In some embodiments multi mode optic can include an aberrator and free space propagation to produce the speckle pattern. Exemplary characteristics of multi mode optics are provided below with reference to .

Multi mode optic is configured so as to output a speckle pattern based on the RF signal imposed on the optical carrier. By multi mode optic it is meant a passive optical component that supports a plurality of electromagnetic propagation modes for each of a plurality of wavelengths in which different of such propagation modes coherently interfere with one another so as to produce a speckle pattern. By speckle pattern it is meant an irregular aperiodic pattern in which at least a first portion of the pattern includes an optical intensity profile that is different than an optical intensity profile of at least a second portion of the pattern that is spatially separated from the first portion of the pattern. By optical intensity profile it is meant the respective intensities amplitudes of different wavelengths in an optical pulse at a selected region of space.

Accordingly within a speckle pattern output by multi mode optic illustrated in a first wavelength in a first portion of the pattern can have a different intensity than does a second wavelength in the first portion of the pattern and also can have a different intensity than does the first wavelength in a second portion of the pattern. For example schematically illustrate exemplary measured speckle patterns generated by a multi mode optic at respective first and second wavelengths of an optical carrier e.g. a chirped optical pulse according to some embodiments of the present invention. The exemplary speckle patterns illustrated in were measured for a cylindrical fiber that is 105 microns in core diameter and 1 meter in length. More specifically a chirped optical pulse including wavelengths from 1539 nm to 1569 nm was input into a 1 meter long multi mode fiber including a 105 micron diameter core and an 0.22 numerical aperture. In black corresponds to substantially no intensity and white corresponds to maximum normalized intensity. It can be seen in that at a wavelength of 1558.0 nm the multi mode fiber multi mode guided wave optic was measured to output a speckle pattern in which a plurality of portions of the pattern have a different optical intensity at that wavelength than do a plurality of other portions of the pattern at that wavelength. It can be seen in that at a wavelength of 1566.5 nm the multi mode fiber multi mode guided wave optic was measured to output a speckle pattern in which a plurality of portions of the pattern have a different optical intensity at that wavelength than do a plurality of other portions of the pattern at that wavelength. Additionally the pattern at 1558.0 nm is significantly different than the pattern at 1566.5 nm .

In some embodiments the optical intensity profile of at least one portion of the speckle pattern is different than the optical intensity profile of at least one other portion of the speckle pattern. For example schematically illustrates an exemplary measured optical intensity profile of a first portion of a speckle pattern such as within one of the small circles illustrated in according to some embodiments of the present invention. The exemplary optical intensity profile illustrated in was measured analogously as for the speckle patterns illustrated in except that illustrates the optical intensity profile for all of the wavelengths at a selected region of the pattern illustrated in . It can be seen in that at the selected portion of the pattern within one of the small circles illustrated in different wavelengths can have significantly different intensities than one another and that the relative intensities of the wavelengths at that portion differ in an irregular aperiodic way relative to one another.

Different spatially separated portions of the speckle pattern also can have different intensity profiles than one another. For example schematically illustrates exemplary optical intensity profiles of a plurality of different portions of the speckle pattern according to some embodiments of the present invention. The exemplary optical intensity profile illustrated in was measured analogously as for the speckle patterns illustrated in except that illustrates the optical intensity profile for all of the wavelengths at different portions different small circles of the pattern illustrated in . In different colors correspond to the optical intensity profiles within corresponding circles illustrated in . Because the number of small circles illustrated in exceeds the number of colors in the palette used to prepare each color in is reused several times to represent respective optical intensity profiles of different portions of the speckle pattern. It can be seen in that each portion of the speckle pattern e.g. each small circle illustrated in potentially can include each wavelength of the optical carrier but with different intensities of each wavelength in each portion.

Although are illustrated as showing optical intensity as a function of wavelength for corresponding portions of the speckle pattern it should be understood that such optical intensities also equivalently can be a function of time for such corresponding portions of the speckle pattern. For example based upon the optical carrier being negatively linearly chirped multi mode optic illustrated in first outputs the longer wavelengths illustrated in followed by longer wavelengths accordingly the optical intensity profile for each portion of the speckle pattern as a function of time can appear substantially the same along the x axis as shown in . As another example based upon the optical carrier being positively linearly chirped multi mode optic illustrated in first outputs the shorter wavelengths illustrated in followed by longer wavelengths accordingly the optical intensity profile for each portion of the speckle pattern as a function of time can appear substantially reverse along the x axis relative to that shown in .

The RF signal can be recovered based on the speckle pattern. For example referring again to system further can include signal recovery processor configured to obtain a digital representation of the RF signal based on the speckle pattern. In a manner analogous to that described above with reference to a first portion of the speckle pattern can include an optical intensity profile that is different than an optical intensity profile of a second portion of the speckle pattern and the first portion of the speckle pattern can be spatially separated from the second portion of the speckle pattern. Multi mode optic imposes the optical intensity profile on the first portion of the speckle pattern as a function of wavelength of the optical carrier upon which the RF signal is imposed. In some embodiments the optical carrier upon which the RF signal is imposed includes a chirped optical pulse.

Signal recovery processor can include at least one optical sensor that multi mode optic irradiates with a first portion of a speckle pattern and that generates an analog electronic signal. Additionally signal recovery processor can include one or more electronic based devices configured to convert analog signals into digital signals e.g. an analog to digital converter ADC for further processing. For example the optical sensor can be coupled to an ADC so as to digitize an electrical output of the optical sensor. Additionally signal recovery processor can include any suitable device capable of signal recovery e.g. a processor and can include a memory device such as random access memory RAM a flash drive or other recordable medium for storing the output of the ADC s as well as the digital representation of the RF signal.

Exemplary signal recovery processor illustrated in includes M photodetectors PDs and M analog to digital converters ADCs . Each photodetector receives a portion of the speckle pattern output by multi mode optic illustrated in either directly or via a guided wave optical element such as a waveguide or optical fiber. Photodetectors are illustrated as being arranged linearly but it should be understood that photodetectors can have any suitable arrangement. For example each small circle illustrated in can correspond to a suitable location of an optical sensor such as a photodetector or a suitable location of a guided wave optic that is coupled to an optical sensor so as to provide a corresponding portion of the speckle pattern to the optical sensor. Photodetectors can include any device configured to convert light into current or voltage such as a photodiode and by design can include a low pass filter. Each photodetector can be configured so as to obtain an electronic representation of a portion of the speckle pattern and provides that electronic representation to a corresponding one of ADCs via a suitable electronic pathway e.g. a conductor. ADC then generates a digital representation of the corresponding portion of the speckle pattern and provides that digital representation to processor via a suitable electronic pathway e.g. a conductor. In some embodiments ADCs are synchronized to optical carrier source illustrated in .

Referring still to processor can be configured to obtain a digital representation of the RF signal based on the digitized electrical output of the optical sensor and the speckle pattern. In some embodiments the optical intensity profiles of different portions of the speckle pattern e.g. at least first and second portions of the speckle pattern define a mixing matrix based upon which a digital representation of the RF signal can be obtained. For example as described elsewhere herein optical modulator imposes the RF signal upon the optical carrier which then is input into multi mode optic . Each different portion of the speckle pattern that multi mode optic generates based on the RF signal imposed upon the optical carrier thus includes the entire temporal profile of the RF signal multiplied by the optical intensity profile of that portion of the speckle pattern as a function of time or wavelength or both. As such each optical intensity profile of a given portion of the speckle pattern can be considered to correspond to a replica of the RF signal multiplied by elements of a row of a mixing matrix such as used in compressive sensing. For example the elements of at least one row of the mixing matrix that is an optical intensity profile of a corresponding portion of the speckle pattern are different than the elements of at least one other row of the mixing matrix that is is different than an optical intensity profile of at least one other corresponding portion of the speckle pattern . Optical sensors of signal recovery processor can be configured to be irradiated with the light corresponding to at least one of such rows of the mixing matrix so as to generate an integrated intensity across all of the wavelengths within the corresponding portion of the speckle pattern. For example an optical sensor irradiated with an optical intensity profile such as illustrated in or can generate an output based on the sum of all of the intensities that it receives. Such an integrated intensity can correspond to an element of a measurement vector such as used in compressive sensing. Signal recovery processor can be configured so as to digitize such electrical output e.g. using ADCs and so as to recover the RF signal based on the digitized electrical output through techniques known in the art of compressive sensing e.g. using suitable computer software which can be stored in a volatile or non volatile memory device within signal recovery processor e.g. RAM ROM or flash memory.

As will be familiar to those of ordinary skill in the art compressive sensing is a methodology for preprocessing sparse data in the analog domain e.g. an analog signal prior to digitization in such a way that fewer digital resources e.g. fewer ADCs can be used to obtain an accurate representation of the sparse data. See for example Cand s et al. An Introduction To Compressive Sampling IEEE Signal Processing Magazine 25 2 21 30 March 2008 the entire contents of which are incorporated by reference herein. In some embodiments the compressive sensing techniques employed in the systems and methods described herein can use a set of algorithms developed for sampling signals and images at rates much lower than the traditional Nyquist rate. See for example Loris L1Packv2 A Mathematica package for minimizing an l penalized functional pg. 1 17 Aug. 20 2008 the entire contents of which are incorporated by reference herein. Loris discloses the use in compressive sensing of a Mathematica Wolfram Research Champaign Ill. package called L1Packv2 that includes an algorithm called FindMinimizer that can be used to obtain a digital representation of the RF signal. Signal recovery processor can use the L1Packv2 package or any other suitable set of algorithms to obtain a digital representation of the RF signal based on the mixing matrix and the measurement vector. As another example see Valley and Shaw Applications of the orthogonal matching pursuit nonlinear least squares algorithm to compressive sensing recovery 2011 169 190 the entire contents of which are incorporated by reference herein. In some embodiments signal recovery processor can use software based on the algorithms described by Valley and Shaw to obtain a digital representation of the RF signal based on the mixing matrix and the measurement vector.

Processor illustrated in is configured to recover a digital representation of the RF signal based on the digitized outputs of photodetectors which digitized outputs respectively can correspond to elements of a measurement vector such as used in compressive sensing and also based on the optical intensity profiles of portions of the speckle pattern which can correspond to elements of a mixing matrix such as used in compressive sensing using compressive sensing techniques known in the art. Processor can be any suitable processing unit configured to perform signal recovery determining a modulation format or demodulating a digital signal based on a demodulation format e.g. a dedicated circuit a computer and can be configured to run a program for signal recovery determining a modulation format and or demodulating a digital signal based on a demodulation format in suitable software e.g. Matlab The MathWorks Inc. Natick Mass. or Mathematica Wolfram Research Champaign Ill. . Processor can be configured obtain the digital representation of the RF signal using known techniques of signal recovery compressive sensing and digital demodulation.

In some embodiments the signal processing implemented by system illustrated in using signal recovery processor illustrated in can digitize the RF signal at an equivalent sampling rate at least N times greater than the sampling rate of any given ADC in signal recovery processor where N is the number of independent wavelengths of the speckle pattern and thus corresponds to the number independent time samples of the RF signal within the chirp pulse. A system using signal recovery processor illustrated in which includes eight photodiodes can be used to recover an RF signal with sparsity less than 8. Or for example based upon receiving 76 portions of the speckle pattern at the 76 small circles illustrated in it can be expected to recover an RF signal with a sparsity less than 76. It will be known to one skilled in the art of compressive sensing that the number of sensors or independent portions of the speckle pattern needed to recover a signal with sparsity is given by approximately K log N K . As a result wideband RF signals can be converted into digital signals using ADCs that can be commercially available at relatively low cost and can have a relatively low data rate e.g. less than 500 megasamples second and relatively low power e.g. less than 0.1 picojoules per conversion step . In this regard it should be noted that the sparsity of system suitably can be increased to accommodate more complicated broadband signals of a desired wavelength by increasing M accordingly that is by suitably selecting the number of optical sensors accordingly.

Signal recovery processor further can be configured to determine the modulation format of the digital representation of the RF signal e.g. using suitable computer software stored within a memory device of signal recovery processor . Non limiting examples of analog modulation formats include amplitude modulation double sideband modulation single sideband modulation vestigial sideband modulation quadrature amplitude modulation angle modulation frequency modulation pulse position modulation and phase modulation. Signal recovery processor can be configured to demodulate the digital representation based on the determined modulation format e.g. using suitable computer software stored within a memory device of signal recovery processor . Indeed signal recovery processor can be configured both to determine the modulation format and to demodulate the digital representation of the RF signal based on the determined modulation format. Signal recovery processor further can be coupled to a display unit not illustrated such as an LED or LCD based display screen configured to display the digital representation of the RF signal to a user.

Note that any suitable arrangement and types of optical carrier source optical modulator multi mode optic signal recovery processor and substrate illustrated in can be used. For example in system illustrated in the optical carrier source can include a laser that generates an optical carrier e.g. a laser beam including a single frequency or a plurality of frequencies such as a continuous wave laser beam or an optical pulse. Such optical carrier is received by optical modulator which imposes an RF signal upon the optical carrier. The optical carrier upon which the RF signal is imposed optionally is chirped but need not necessarily be chirped and indeed need not necessarily include more than one optical frequency. The multi mode optic can include multi mode waveguide fiber that receives as input the RF signal imposed upon the optical carrier and outputs directly or indirectly via guided wave optics a speckle pattern to a signal recovery processor that includes photodiode array and ADCs that can be configured analogously as those discussed above with reference to .

As another example in system illustrated in the optical carrier source can include a laser that generates that generates an optical carrier e.g. a laser beam including a single frequency or a plurality of frequencies such as a continuous wave laser beam or an optical pulse. Such optical carrier is received by optical modulator which imposes an RF signal upon the optical carrier. The optical carrier upon which the RF signal is imposed optionally is chirped but need not necessarily be chirped and indeed need not necessarily include more than one optical frequency. The multi mode optic can include wavelength division demultiplexer WDM that can be configured to receive from optical modulator three signal components the optical carrier plus the imposed RF signal upper sideband the optical carrier minus the imposed RF signal lower sideband and the optical carrier alone. WDM can be configured so as to output to multi mode waveguide fiber the optical carrier plus the imposed RF signal upper sideband and to reject the optical carrier alone and the optical carrier minus the imposed RF signal lower sideband . Multi mode waveguide fiber outputs directly or indirectly via guided wave optics a speckle pattern to a signal recovery processor that includes photodiode array and ADCs that can be configured analogously as those discussed above with reference to . The software in the signal recovery processor can be based on a dictionary of vectors of all possible speckle patterns for all possible wavelengths received by the sensor array. The processor can be configured so as to correlate such a dictionary with the measurement vector by performing a dot product of the dictionary matrix with the measurement vector. In some embodiments the location of the maximum value of the correlation vector corresponds to the location in the dictionary of the most likely speckle pattern and hence to the most likely wavelength received by the sensor array. This wavelength can be related to the sum of the RF frequency plus the optical frequency.

As another example in system illustrated in the optical carrier source can include a mode locked laser MLL configured to generate a broadband optical pulse such as represented in by the rainbow color components stacked on top of one another from bottom to top and denoted broadband pulse. The optical carrier source also can include a dispersive optical element such as a dispersion compensating fiber DCF or chirped fiber Bragg grating CFBG configured to chirp the broadband optical pulse such as represented in by the rainbow components arranged next to each other from right to left and denoted chirped. Such optical carrier is received by optical modulator such as a Mach Zehnder modulator MZM which imposes an RF signal upon the chirped optical pulse such as represented in by the rainbow components arranged next to each other from right to left with intensity variations and denoted modulated. The multi mode optic can include multi mode waveguide fiber that receives as input the RF signal imposed upon the chirped optical pulse and outputs directly or indirectly via guided wave optics a speckle pattern to a signal recovery processor that includes photodiode array and ADCs that can be configured analogously as those discussed herein with reference to .

It should be appreciated that systems such as described herein with reference to suitably can be used in any suitable method for obtaining a digital representation of an RF signal. illustrates steps in an exemplary method for obtaining a digital representation of an RF signal using a multi mode optic according to some embodiments of the present invention. At step an RF signal imposed on an optical carrier is input to a multi mode optic. The optical carrier can include an optical pulse such as a chirped optical pulse such as a chirped repetitively pulsed optical signal such as described above with reference to . The RF signal can be received and imposed on an optical carrier in a manner such as discussed above with respect to . For example an optical domain representation of the RF signal can be obtained by imposing the signal on the optical carrier e.g. in the form of an intensity modulation of the carrier. Such a modulation of the optical carrier can be considered to provide an optical domain representation of the RF signal. The multi mode optic can include a multi mode guided wave optic such as a fiber or a planar waveguide.

At step illustrated in the multi mode optic outputs a speckle pattern based on the RF signal imposed on the optical carrier. Exemplary characteristics of such a speckle pattern are provided elsewhere herein e.g. with reference to .

At step illustrated in a digital representation of the RF signal is obtained based on the speckle pattern. For example step can include irradiating an optical sensor with a first portion of the speckle pattern the first portion of the speckle pattern including an optical intensity profile that is different than an optical intensity profile of a second portion of the speckle pattern the first portion of the speckle pattern being spatially separated from the second portion of the speckle pattern. As discussed in greater detail above with reference to the multi mode optic can output the optical intensity profile on the first portion of the speckle pattern as a function of wavelength of the optical carrier upon which the radio frequency signal is imposed. The optical intensity profiles of at least the first and second portions of the speckle pattern can define a mixing matrix. Step can include obtaining a digitized electrical output of the optical sensor the digital representation of the RF signal being obtained based at least on the digitized electrical output and the mixing matrix. Such processing can include using a dedicated circuit or a computer. The processing can include running a suitable program for signal recovery in software such as Matlab The MathWorks Inc. Natick Mass. or Mathematica Wolfram Research Champaign Ill. .

After the digital representation of the RF signal is obtained the digital representation can be suitably analyzed. For example a modulation format of the digital representation can be determined e.g. using suitable computer software. Non limiting examples of modulation formats include amplitude modulation double sideband modulation single sideband modulation vestigial sideband modulation quadrature amplitude modulation angle modulation frequency modulation phase modulation phase shift keying binary phase modulation frequency shift keying amplitude shift keying on off keying continuous phase modulation orthogonal frequency division multiplexing modulation wavelet modulation Trellis coded modulation direct sequence spread spectrum chirp spread spectrum frequency hopping spread spectrum and pulse position modulation. Previously known demodulation techniques can require prior knowledge of the type of modulation used to encode a signal for example previously known demodulation phase shift keying can require the use of an interferometer to determine the phase of incoming optical pulses. By contrast a digitized representation of the RF signal can be provided to suitable hardware or software or a combination thereof that can be configured to determine the particular type of modulation being used to encode a signal thus providing substantially more flexibility than previously known demodulators. The digital representation can be demodulated based on the modulation format using e.g. suitable computer software. The digital representation of the RF signal can be displayed to a user e.g. using a suitable display device such as an LCD or LED display.

It should be appreciated that a variety of suitable hardware and software configurations can be used so as to generate and analyze speckle patterns based upon which a digital representation of an RF signal can be obtained. Some exemplary characteristics of multi mode optics and some exemplary details of using such multi mode optics for compressive sensing include the following.

For a multi mode optic such as a planar waveguide analytical solutions exist for the transverse mode distributions and propagation constants allowing one to calculate speckle patterns as a function of waveguide length. illustrate spatial profiles of different wavelengths in an exemplary simulated speckle pattern generated by different lengths of multi mode optics for an optical carrier e.g. a chirped optical pulse according to some embodiments of the present invention. More specifically Mathematica software was used to simulate transverse mode distributions in a planar waveguide with n 3.6 and n 3.55 which refractive indices are typical of III V semiconductors and their alloys width 50 m in the x dimension and arbitrarily small thickness supporting just a single mode in the y direction. Overfilled launch conditions in which equal energy is coupled into all of the waveguide modes were considered. For 101 optical wavelengths from 1.5 to 1.52 m respectively illustrate the optical intensity at the output of the waveguide as a function of position x along the width of the waveguide for waveguide lengths of 1 mm 1 cm 10 cm and 1 m. Note that the 1 mm waveguide does not provide significant variation in the optical intensity profile as a function of wavelength while the 1 m waveguide provides significant variation in the optical intensity profile as a function of wavelength. In different colors correspond to the optical intensity profiles at selected wavelengths of the speckle output of the guided wave optic each color in is reused several times in each plot to represent respective optical intensity profiles of different portions of the speckle pattern.

A characteristic feature of compressive sensing is the mixing matrix that reduces the effective dimension of the measurements from that needed for Nyquist rate sampling N the duration of the time window T divided by twice the maximum frequency in the signal f to a number M on the order of the sparsity K of the signal. For example in CS systems the sparse input signal x of dimension N is recovered from a measurement vector y of dimension M with MM and based upon satisfying certain properties such as described herein or known in the art of compressive sensing sparse x can be recovered by a wide range of compressive sensing algorithms. In embodiments provided herein the mixing matrix can be generated in the analog domain using a multi mode optic.

Exemplary systems for generating a mixing matrix using a multi mode optic are described above with reference to . For example in system illustrated in moving from left to right a sequence of pulses from pulsed e.g. femtosecond mode locked laser MLL pass though dispersion compensating fiber DCF or chirped fiber Bragg grating CFBG optionally with dispersion chosen to stretch the pulse to the interpulse time. The resulting chirped pulses then pass through Mach Zehnder modulator MZM that impresses the RF signal on the optical intensity enter multi mode optic such as a waveguide or fiber and finally are split spatially at the output of the optic and directed to photodiode array . The electrical signal from the photodiode array is digitized by an array of ADCs operating at and clocked to the mode locked laser pulse repletion frequency. Time wavelength mapping in is shown schematically in the little rainbow icon below and to the right of the MZM denoted modulated. The optical field at the beginning of the RF pulse is illustrated in red and at the end is illustrated in violet. Speckle patterns in multi mode optics such as multi mode fibers or waveguides are relatively sensitive to wavelength and even small changes in wavelength can give completely different patterns at the right hand end of the waveguide. For example as noted above schematically illustrates an exemplary simulated speckle pattern generated by a 1 m long 105 m diameter multi mode cylindrical fiber across all wavelengths in an optical carrier e.g. a chirped optical pulse and exemplary positions for optical sensors configured to be irradiated by different portions of the speckle pattern according to some embodiments of the present invention. As noted above shows the intensity as a function of wavelength observed in each of the 76 circles shown in . Note that the speckle patterns appear to be relatively uncorrelated from circle to circle and appear to decorrelate within a few tenths of a nm in wavelength. In the present systems and methods different portions of the speckle pattern include the RF signal multiplied by a different independent pattern as such integrating over the duration of the stretched pulse effectively can perform the matrix multiplication of Eq. 1 .

An exemplary first test of a mixing matrix for compressive sensing is to determine the extent to which a signal can be recovered using that mixing matrix in compressive sensing. For the first test sparse input vectors x with 12 non zero components were distributed at random in 601 slots. The sparse input vectors x were multiplied by the mixing matrix of dimension 76 601 to obtain the measurement vector y and a standard penalized ell 1 norm code Loris L1Packv2 A Mathematica package for minimizing an l penalized functional pg. 1 17 Aug. 20 2008 was used to obtain the recovered vector x. illustrate the mean square error in the recovered signal as a function of the small dimension of the mixing matrix for 100 randomly chosen locations of the 12 non zero elements. More specifically illustrates exemplary errors in a recovered simulated compressive signal as a function of small dimension of a mixing matrix based on random numbers between 0 and 1. illustrates exemplary errors in a recovered simulated compressive signal as a function of small dimension of a mixing matrix based on use of a speckle pattern having the optical intensity profiles illustrated in according to some embodiments of the present invention. Note the qualitative similarity between the speckle and random mixing matrices. In each case all 100 trials show a relatively sharp transition from no recovery log error 1 to excellent recovery log error 

Additionally as is known in the art of compressive sensing the rows of the mixing matrix preferably are uncorrelated with the basis vectors in which the input signal is sparse. Additionally the rows of the mixing matrix preferably are uncorrelated with each other so that each value of y makes an independent measurement. This can be quantified by plotting the normalized mutual coherence C i . j i j . illustrates mutual coherence of a simulated mixing matrix based on random numbers between 0 and 1. illustrates mutual coherence of a simulated mixing matrix based on use of a speckle pattern having the optical intensity profiles illustrated in according to some embodiments of the present invention. It can be seen that the mutual coherence of the simulated mixing matrix based on use of a speckle pattern is similar to that of the simulated mixing matrix based on random numbers between 0 and 1. For example the mean coherence of the speckle mixing matrix is only slightly larger than that of the random mixing matrix 0.78 compared to 0.75 . Note that the present systems suitably can be modified so as to impose a speckle mixing matrix with elements distributed between 1 and 1 using a scheme similar to that shown in in which the output of the MZM is split and half of the signal is input into a second multi mode optic splitter and photodiode array. Then currents from one photodiode coupled to each multi mode optic can be combined with those from the other multi mode with the opposite polarity.

In some embodiments a method is provided for obtaining a digital representation of a radio frequency signal. The method can include inputting into a multi mode optic the radio frequency signal imposed on an optical carrier outputting by the multi mode optic a speckle pattern based on the radio frequency signal imposed on the optical carrier and obtaining the digital representation of the radio frequency signal based on the speckle pattern. Nonlimiting examples of such a method are described further herein with reference at least to .

In some embodiments a system is provided for obtaining a digital representation of a radio frequency signal. The system can include a multi mode optic configured to receive the radio frequency signal imposed on an optical carrier and to output a speckle pattern based on the radio frequency signal imposed on the optical carrier and a signal recovery processor configured to obtain the digital representation of the radio frequency signal based on the speckle pattern. Nonlimiting examples of such a system are described further herein with reference at least to .

In some embodiments an integrated system is provided for obtaining a digital representation of a radio frequency signal. The integrated system can include a substrate a receiver configured to receive the radio frequency signal a source of an optical carrier a modulator configured to impose the radio frequency signal onto the optical carrier a multi mode optic defined within the substrate and configured to receive the optical carrier having the radio frequency signal imposed thereon and to output a speckle pattern based on the optical carrier having the radio frequency signal imposed thereon an optical sensor configured to be irradiated with a first portion of the speckle pattern the first portion of the speckle pattern including an optical intensity profile that is different than an optical intensity profile of a second portion of the speckle pattern the first portion of the speckle pattern being spatially separated from the second portion of the speckle pattern and a signal recovery processor coupled to the optical sensor and configured to obtain the digital representation of the radio frequency signal based on at least the first portion of the speckle pattern. Nonlimiting examples of such a system are described further herein with reference at least to .

While preferred embodiments of the invention are described herein it will be apparent to one skilled in the art that various changes and modifications may be made. For example it should be apparent that the systems and methods provided herein suitably may be used to obtain representations of any received analog or digital signal including wideband analog or digital signals in applications including but not limited to signals intelligence software defined radio wideband radar ultra wideband RF communications demodulation for optical communications systems with higher order modulation formats and test and measurement systems such as high speed digital oscilloscopes. The appended claims are intended to cover all such changes and modifications that fall within the true spirit and scope of the invention.

