---

title: System and method for authentication
abstract: Provided is a system and method for authentication. The method includes receiving a subscription request from a user terminal, the subscription request executed by an authentication server communicating with the user terminal and including group discrimination data including a group code and information for discriminating a group from another, if it is determined that the group code and the information included in the group discrimination data correspond to each other, performing a group authentication procedure on the user terminal and processing the group authentication procedure as being successful, issuing a member session key to the user terminal, and providing a service requested by the user terminal in response to the service request including the member session key from the user terminal. In one embodiment, it is possible to prevent information on service users from being divulged.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09439072&OS=09439072&RS=09439072
owner: TEAMBLIND INC.
number: 09439072
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150629
---
The present patent application is a continuation application of international patent application number PCT US14 064579 filed Nov. 7 2014 now pending and is related to and claims the priority benefit of Korean Patent Application No. 10 2014 0139312 filed on Oct. 15 2014 and Korean Patent Application No. 10 2013 0135210 filed Nov. 8 2013 the content of each is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety into this disclosure.

The present invention relates to a system and method for authentication enabling authentication and use of a service without recording information for discriminating a service user from another.

Recently along with rapid progress in network technology and distribution of portable terminals use of a variety of on line services is rapidly increasing.

According to the rapid increase in the use of on line services service providers of the respective services indiscreetly collect personal information but cannot appropriately manage the collected personal information.

For example Korean Patent Publication No. 10 2009 0056324 discloses a method for providing personal information of a user to other on line sites once the user registers the personal information in an on line site.

According to the conventional authentication methods users identities or other identity information susceptible to exposure to a third party due to divergence of personal information was left out of consideration in acquiring personal information of service users and performing authentication using the acquired personal information.

In particular in the services requiring strict security to prevent identities of the service users service providers negligence or misconduct may bring about exposure of users identities.

In order to overcome the above mentioned shortcomings certain embodiments herein provide a system and method for authentication which can prevent service users identities from being exposed.

Certain embodiments herein also provides a system and method for authentication which can prevent service users identities from being exposed even by hacking of a terminal or server side of a service provider negligence in information management or a manager s misconduct.

Certain embodiments herein also provides a system and method for authentication which can store information provided by a service user during subscription and authentication procedures in such a manner that the information cannot be decoded from a side of a service provider s server.

Certain embodiments herein also provides a system and method for authentication which can be implemented to discriminate individual users and to enable a service to be used just by receiving minimum information from a service user.

Certain embodiments herein also provides a system and method for authentication which can be implemented to prevent an identity of a posting user posting bulletin content from being exposed by allowing the user to subscribe to a service through e mail authentication and separating the information used in subscribing to the service and the information necessary to actually use the service.

Certain embodiments herein also provides a system and method for authentication which can make only one activated service use account exist for one e mail address for the purpose of operating a service in a secure manner.

According to an aspect of the invention there is provided a method for authentication the method including receiving a subscription request from a user terminal the subscription request executed by an authentication server communicating with the user terminal and including group discrimination data including a group code and information for discriminating a group from another if it is determined that the group code and the information included in the group discrimination data correspond to each other performing a group authentication procedure on the user terminal and processing the group authentication procedure as being successful issuing a member session key to the user terminal and providing a service requested by the user terminal in response to the service request including the member session key from the user terminal.

According to another aspect of the invention there is provided a method for authentication the method including providing a user interface executed by a user terminal communicating with an authentication server through a network to receive group discrimination data including a group code and information for discriminating a group from another receiving the group code and the group discrimination data and transmitting a subscription request including the group code and the group discrimination data to the authentication server if group authentication for the user terminal is processed as being successful from the authentication server receiving and encrypting a password entered by a user encrypting the group discrimination data using the password and transmitting the encrypted password and the encrypted group discrimination data to the authentication server and if a member session key is received from the authentication server storing the member session key and transmitting a service request for the authentication server the service request including the member session key to be offered with a service provided by the authentication server.

As described above according to certain embodiments herein the system and method for authentication can prevent service users identities from being exposed.

In addition according to certain embodiments herein the system and method for authentication can prevent service users identities from being exposed even by hacking of a terminal or server side of a service provider negligence in information management or a manager s misconduct.

According to certain embodiments herein the system and method for authentication can store information provided by a service user during subscription and authentication procedures in such a manner that the information cannot be decoded from a side of a service provider s server.

According to certain embodiments herein the system and method for authentication can be implemented to discriminate individual users and to enable a service to be used just by receiving minimum information from a service user.

According to certain embodiments herein the system and method for authentication can be implemented to prevent an identity of a posting user posting bulletin content from being exposed by allowing the posting user to subscribe to a service through e mail authentication and separating the information used in subscribing to the service and the information necessary to actually use the service.

According to certain embodiments herein the system and method for authentication can make only one activated service use account exist for one e mail address for the purpose of operating a service in a secure manner.

Certain embodiments herein will now be described in detail with reference to a few preferred embodiments as illustrated in the accompanying drawings. The present invention may however be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as being limited to the embodiments set forth herein. Rather these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will be thorough and complete and will fully convey the concept of the invention to those skilled in the art and the present invention will only be defined by the appended claims. Thus in some embodiments well known structures and devices are not shown in order not to obscure the description of the invention with unnecessary detail. Like numbers refer to like elements throughout.

It will be understood that when an element or layer is referred to as being connected to another element or layer it can be directly connected or electrically connected to the other element or layer or intervening elements or layers may be present. It will be also understood that the term comprises when used in this specification specify the presence of stated elements but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other elements unless otherwise defined.

Hereinafter certain embodiments herein will be described in further detail with reference to the accompanying drawings.

First as shown in the authentication system according to an embodiment includes a user terminal and an authentication server connected to a network N. Additionally the authentication system according to an embodiment may further include an e mail authentication terminal . Here the e mail authentication terminal may be a terminal that is physically identical with the user terminal or may be a separate terminal.

Here the network N may be implemented by all kinds of wired wireless network such as a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN a value added network VAN a personal area network PAN a mobile radio communication network or a satellite communication network.

The user terminal and the e mail authentication terminal are communication terminals connected to a server of a remote location through the network N and may be implemented by a portable terminal that can be connected to another terminal or server. The portable terminal may be for example a wireless communication device having portability and mobility guaranteed such as a personal communication system PCS a global system for mobile communications GSM a personal digital cellular PDC a personal handyphone system PHS a personal digital assistant PDA an international mobile telecommunication IMT 2000 a code division multiple access CDMA 2000 a W code division multiple access W CDMA a wireless broadband internet Wibro terminal a smart phone a tablet computer and all kinds of handheld wireless communication device. Here the user terminal is a terminal used by a user of an on line service provided by an operator of the authentication server . The e mail authentication terminal is a terminal for receiving an authentication e mail transmitted from the authentication server . The user terminal and the e mail authentication terminal are simply divided by functions. As described above the user terminal and the e mail authentication terminal may be the same with or different from each other.

An application for communicating with the authentication server and providing an on line service provided by the operator of the authentication server may be installed in the user terminal . A web browser or a separate e mail application may be installed in the e mail authentication terminal to receive and display the authentication e mail transmitted from the authentication server through an e mail server not shown or preparing the authentication e mail transmitted from the e mail authentication terminal to the authentication server . In describing certain embodiments the meaning of the expression authentication e mail will later be described.

Meanwhile the authentication server communicates with a plurality of user terminals through the network N and provides an on line service discriminates each of the user terminals through a user authentication procedure of the user terminal and provides the service corresponding to the discriminated user terminal .

Here the service provided by the authentication server is not limited to a particular service. However the service provided by the authentication server may be for example a service shared by a plurality of users by registering bulletin content such as an on line bulletin board service or an on line community service. In particular in an embodiment the authentication server allows each user to select or enter the name of a group to which the user belongs and authenticates the user s membership of the group and provides only the user authenticated as a member of the group with bulletin content associated with the group or allows the authenticated user to subscribe in a community of the group.

Hereinafter configurations of the user terminal and the authentication server will be described in detail. Before describing the configurations of the user terminal and the authentication server terms used herein will first be defined as follows.

The term group is used to mean a variety of organizations to which individuals belong and may include for example all types of organizations formed by the individuals gathering to achieve the same objective. That is to say the group may include all types of organizations conceptually or socially grouped or grouped with or without intention.

In an embodiment the group authentication may be executed by an e mail. To this end a group code for discriminating each group and a format of an e mail address corresponding to each group code may be stored in the authentication server . Here the format of the e mail address may be set as a string of a host address part excluding a part for discriminating a user.

For example assuming that an e mail address of Kim Minho who is a student of Seoul National University is kmh snu.ac.kr and a host address of the e mail service actually hosted by Seoul National University is snu.ac.kr the authentication server may execute group authentication by confirming whether a part following after in the e mail address kmh snu.ac.kr entered by Kim Minho is identical with a host address part of the e mail service i.e. snu.ac.kr provided from Seoul National University.

In group authentication in order to confirm whether the user s entered e mail address is identical with the e mail address that is actually used by the user the authentication server may transmit an e mail for authentication to be referred to as authentication e mail hereinafter to the e mail address entered by the user and user s confirmation for the authentication e mail may be authenticated.

For example the authentication e mail may be transmitted to the e mail address kmh snu.ac.kr entered by Kim Minho to authenticate e mail confirmation within a preset time.

Here a variety of methods for detecting whether the user has confirmed the authentication e mail or not may be employed. In an example after an authentication link to be described later is embedded in the authentication e mail transmitted from the authentication server to then be transmitted if the authentication link is selected by the e mail authentication terminal that has received the authentication e mail it is determined that the user has confirmed the authentication e mail which will later be described in more detail.

In another example an authentication link to be described later is embedded in the authentication e mail transmitted from the authentication server to then be transmitted. The user is allowed to confirm a string for authentication embedded in the authentication e mail included in the authentication e mail through the e mail authentication terminal and if the user who has confirmed the string for authentication accurately enters the confirmed string for authentication through the user terminal within a preset time it is determined that the authentication e mail is confirmed by the user.

As described above a group authentication method is executed such that the authentication server transmits the authentication e mail including an authentication link or a string for authentication to group e mail addresses entered by the user which is to be referred to as a first embodiment.

In a second embodiment of another group authentication method if the user enters an e mail address for group authentication after the authentication server confirms whether the user s entered e mail address corresponds to a pre stored e mail address format for the group selected by the user an e mail address of a manager of the authentication server may be provided to the user to allow the user to transmit the authentication e mail to the manager of the authentication server that is to a service operator. According to certain embodiments keyword for authentication to be recorded in the authentication e mail by the user may optionally be provided.

In addition if the authentication e mail including the keyword for authentication in a main text is transmitted to the manager of the authentication server using the group e mail address identical with the user s entered e mail address the authentication procedure may be completed by confirming the address of the e mail transmitted by the user when the authentication e mail is confirmed. Here the authentication server may process the group authentication as being successful only when the keyword for authentication additionally provided to the user and the keyword for authentication included in the received e mail are identical with each other as the result of comparison. Here in order to process the group authentication as being successful it may be confirmed whether an IP address of a mail server that has transmitted the authentication e mail received from the user is correct or not and a sender and a recipient of the received authentication e mail and keywords included in the main text of the mail may be compared with the e mail address entered by the user the e mail address provided to the user i.e. receiving mail address and keywords for authentication provided to the user. In the aforementioned second embodiment the authentication server may provide only the operator s e mail address to the user who intends to proceed with a subscription procedure by entering the group e mail address but may not provide the keyword for authentication. In this case the user may succeed in the group authentication by transmitting the authentication e mail having the operator s e mail address as a recipient using the user s own group e mail address.

Further according to a third embodiment of group authentication group authentication may be executed using information other than the e mail address. For example the authentication server may pre store intrinsic IP addresses of wireless LAN access points used by the respective groups or identifier information such as SSID by group. In addition the authentication server may pre store information on off line addresses of the respective groups.

The authentication server may perform user authenticate as to whether the user is a member of a particular group by comparing at least one of information on the identifier of the wireless LAN access point accessed by the user terminal and a current position of the user terminal of the user who intends to subscribe in the service of the particular group as a member with an identifier and an off line address of a wireless LAN access point of a pre stored group.

Meanwhile the term member authentication is used to mean a procedure of endowing an intrinsic key for granting a subsequent service connection of the user terminal to the user terminal having completed the group authentication to be referred to as session key .

In an embodiment the authentication server receives a password from the user of the user terminal having completed the group authentication encrypts information concerning the user or the user terminal to be registered in the authentication server and executes the procedure of endowing the session key that is characteristic for each user terminal thereby completing the member authentication.

Hereinafter functional configurations of the user terminal according to an embodiment will be described using the terms defined above.

As shown in the user terminal includes a subscription request unit . As described above the subscription request unit provides a user interface allowing the user who executes an application installed in the user terminal to select a group to which the user belongs to transmit a request for subscription to on line service for the group to the authentication server .

First the subscription request unit may allow the user to enter a group name or to select one of a plurality of pre stored groups. In a case where the user enters a group name the subscription request unit may search for a pre stored group name corresponding to a string of the entered group name to then display the same thereby selecting the group to which the user belongs. Here a group code for discriminating a group may be matched with the user s selected group and the subscription request unit may transmit the group code to the authentication server when transmitting the information on the user s selected group to the authentication server .

In addition as described above the subscription request unit may receive the e mail address from the user in the format of a string and may transmit the received string together with the group code to the authentication server .

Accordingly the authentication server may execute the group authentication using the received group code and the e mail address. As described above the subscription request unit may transmit the group code and the identifier of the wireless LAN access point or the current position information to the authentication server according to embodiment.

Meanwhile the user terminal may include an authentication key management unit . The authentication key managed by the authentication key management unit is received from the authentication server . As described above if the subscription request unit provides the group code and the e mail address to the authentication server the authentication server confirms whether the received information corresponds to the e mail address format of the selected group code and then transmits the authentication e mail to the received e mail address. Here the authentication server may notify the user terminal of transmittal of the authentication e mail and may simultaneously provide the authentication key to the user terminal . Here the authentication key is an intrinsic pseudorandom key newly generated whenever the authentication e mail is transmitted.

Here the notification of the transmittal of the authentication e mail from the authentication server to the user terminal will now be referred to as authentication e mail transmittal notification .

Accordingly the authentication key management unit may store the received authentication key while receiving the authentication e mail transmittal notification. In addition when completion of the confirmation for the authentication e mail is later notified the authentication key management unit provides the stored authentication key to an authentication request unit to be described later. Here the authentication key that is received and stored by the authentication key management unit together with the authentication e mail transmittal notification will now be referred to as a first authentication key .

In addition in the second embodiment of group authentication when the authentication server receives an e mail address from the user terminal confirms whether the received e mail address has a format corresponds to the user s selected group and then provides an operator s e mail address to which the user may send an authentication e mail and selectively provides keywords for authentication to the user terminal according to embodiment an authentication key may be generated to then be transmitted to the user terminal and the authentication key management unit may store the generated authentication key. That is to say in the present embodiment the authentication key may be an intrinsic pseudorandom key newly generated whenever a receiving address of the authentication e mail to be received from the user operator s e mail address and keywords for authentication are provided to the user.

In addition in the third embodiment of group authentication when the subscription request unit of the user terminal transmits the group code and the identifier of the wireless LAN access point and the current position information to the authentication server the authentication server may compare the received information with pre registered information for the group corresponding to the received group code and may send the authentication key to the user terminal . Accordingly the authentication key management unit may store the authentication key received from the authentication server . Here the authentication key may be an intrinsic pseudorandom key newly generated whenever the information received from the user is compared with the information on the group stored in the authentication server to execute group authentication.

Meanwhile the user terminal according to an embodiment may include the authentication request unit . The authentication request unit is configured to request for final authentication for completing group authentication to the authentication server to enable member authentication.

The authentication server transmits again the authentication key transmitted together when the authentication e mail transmittal notification is provided to the user terminal when notifying the user terminal of the completion of confirmation for the authentication e mail.

Here the notification of completion of confirmation for the authentication e mail which is transmitted from the authentication server to the user terminal will now be referred to as an authentication e mail confirmation notification and the authentication key received in the user terminal will now be referred to as a second authentication key . The authentication e mail confirmation notification is a notification generated in a case where it is confirmed that the user has browsed the authentication e mail when the authentication server transmits the authentication e mail according to the first embodiment. The confirmation may be achieved by confirming whether an authentication link included in the authentication e mail is selected whether a request including URL information corresponding to the authentication link is received in the authentication server or whether the string for authentication included in the authentication e mail is transmitted to the authentication server through the user terminal as described above.

Therefore the authentication request unit compares the second authentication key received together when the authentication e mail confirmation notification is received with the first authentication key received and stored by the authentication key management unit together with the authentication e mail transmittal notification and confirms whether the compared keys are identical with each other or not. Only when the compared keys are identical with each other the authentication request unit may transmit the identical authentication key and the e mail address to the authentication server thereby confirming whether the group authentication has been successfully completed or not.

According to embodiment the authentication key may not be included in the authentication e mail transmittal notification but may be included in only the authentication e mail confirmation notification so that the authentication request unit may inquire the authentication server whether the group authentication has been successfully completed or not using only the authentication key included in the authentication e mail confirmation notification without comparison of authentication keys. Alternatively if the authentication key is included in only the authentication e mail transmittal notification but is not included in the authentication e mail confirmation notification and the authentication request unit receives the authentication e mail confirmation notification the authentication request unit may transmit the authentication key included in the authentication e mail transmittal notification to the authentication server thereby inquiring whether the group authentication corresponding to the authentication key has been successfully completed or not.

Meanwhile in the second embodiment of group authentication the authentication server may also transmit the first authentication key together when the operator s e mail address to which the user is to send the authentication e mail optionally including keywords for authentication is notified the user terminal to be referred to as an authentication e mail receiving address notification hereinafter .

When the authentication e mail including the keywords for authentication in the main text is sent to the receiving address after the user confirms the authentication e mail receiving address notification if the authentication server confirms the authentication e mail the authentication e mail confirmation notification may be transmitted again to the user terminal together with the second authentication key.

In the second embodiment the first authentication key and the second authentication key are not necessarily discriminated from each other. Rather an authentication key may be allowed to be included in at least one of two notifications sequentially transmitted.

Meanwhile in the third embodiment of group authentication when the authentication server receives the identifier of the wireless LAN access point or the current position information with the group code from the user terminal the authentication key corresponding to the user terminal may be generated to then be transmitted to the user terminal . Here the authentication server may notify the user terminal whether the received identifier of the wireless LAN access point or the current position information corresponds to the user s selected group and whether the group authentication has been successfully completed. Next the user may perform a member authentication procedure using the authentication key included in the notification. That is to say in the third embodiment of group authentication the authentication request unit confirms whether the final group authentication by the authentication server has been successfully completed using the authentication key included in the notification received from the authentication server and then performs the member authentication procedure.

Further the user terminal according to an embodiment may include a member information setting unit . The member information setting unit may receive a password from the user and may provide information pieces associated with the user including the password to the authentication server .

Here the encryption unit may encrypt the received password and e mail address to allowing the information concerning the user stored in the authentication server in an encrypted state thereby completing the member authentication procedure.

To this end if a response indicating that the group authentication has been successfully completed is received in the user terminal from the authentication server in response to the confirmation whether the group authentication for the authentication server of the authentication request unit is completed or not the member information setting unit may provide a user interface to receive the password from the user. Here the password may include a simple string of digits or a string of digits and characters. Further it is obvious that the password may be patterned with a particular track.

Next the encryption unit may encrypt the e mail address received by the subscription request unit using the input password. In addition the encryption unit may encrypt the input password itself. Accordingly the member information setting unit may provide the encrypted e mail address and the encrypted password to the authentication server . Here the e mail address may first be encrypted by the encrypted password.

Here the member information setting unit may transmit the previously received group code and authentication key together with the encrypted e mail address and the encrypted password to the authentication server .

In addition the member information setting unit may receive a nickname to be set by the user together when receiving the password. Here the nickname may be set as a particular string. After receiving the nickname the member information setting unit is provided with a confirmation as to redundancy of the nickname from the authentication server thereby setting the nickname that is not redundant with that of another user. Here the member information setting unit may transmit the nickname finally confirmed by the user to the authentication server together with the encrypted password thereby allowing individual users nicknames to be registered in the authentication server .

As described above the member information setting unit provides the encrypted e mail address and the encrypted password and additional information to the authentication server so that the authentication server stores the encrypted information and confirms redundant subscription in an identical e mail address to then issue a session key to the user terminal .

Meanwhile the user terminal according to an embodiment includes a session maintaining unit which stores and renews the session key issued from the authentication server and transmits the session key to the authentication server when communicating with the authentication server to allow the authentication server to discriminate the user terminal and accordingly offer services.

In addition the user terminal according to an embodiment may further include a bulletin content display unit sending a request for bulletin content to the authentication server another server operated by the operator of the authentication server or a third party server using an authentication application programming interface API provided by the operator of the authentication server and receiving and displaying the requested bulletin content. In sending the request for the bulletin content the session maintaining unit may read the stored session key and may transmit the read session key to the authentication server or another server or a third party server operated by the operator of the authentication server provided with the same session key with the session key issued from the authentication server to the user terminal .

Further the user terminal according to an embodiment may further include a bulletin content registering unit registering the bulletin content by accepting a new registration of bulletin content from the user and transmitting the newly registered bulletin content to the authentication server or another server operated by the operator of the authentication server or a third party server using an authentication application programming interface API provided by the operator of the authentication server .

As described above the session maintaining unit may read the stored session key and may transmit the read session key to the authentication server or another server or the third party server operated by the operator of the authentication server provided with the same session key with the session key issued from the authentication server to the user terminal .

Hereinafter functional configurations of the authentication server performing group authentication and member authentication by communicating with the user terminal according to an embodiment will be described in detail. The authentication server will be described below with reference to . illustrates a functional configuration of the authentication server performing group authentication according to the first embodiment. The authentication server may be configured such that a group authentication unit includes an e mail transmission unit and an e mail authentication unit which will later be described. However according to another embodiment the group authentication unit may be differently configured which will also be described below.

First the authentication server may include a subscription request receiving unit . If a subscription request is received from the user terminal the subscription request receiving unit receives and records the user s input group code and e mail address received in the subscription request unit of the user terminal together with the subscription request.

Here the subscription request receiving unit may connect the received group code and e mail address with each other using an account to then store the same.

Here the information received by the subscription request receiving unit may be recorded in Table for Subscription .

The Table for Subscription is a table in which the group code and the e mail address received from the user terminal together with the subscription request are stored and is used in executing a subscription procedure including the group authentication and the member authentication. The data recorded in the table for subscription is deleted once the subscription procedure for the corresponding user terminal is completed and a session key is endowed to the user terminal .

As described above the group code and the e mail address are received by the subscription request receiving unit from the user terminal . The authentication key and the e mail authentication code may be recorded in the table for subscription by being generated by the subscription request receiving unit after the subscription request is received from the user terminal .

The information recorded in the table for subscription may be deleted after the lapse of a predetermined period of time unless the user takes an action for the authentication e mail is taken within the predetermined period of time after sending the authentication e mail.

Meanwhile the push identifier may be device discrimination information used by a push server e.g. GCM of Android operating system OS or APNS of iOS such as a registered ID of the android OS or a device token of the iOS. The device discrimination information may be given each application installed in each user terminal to discriminate the application and receiving a push notification.

Therefore the subscription request receiving unit temporarily stores the push identifier of the user terminal requesting for subscription in the table for subscription thereby allowing the authentication e mail transmittal notification or the authentication e mail confirmation notification to be transmitted to the user terminal by push technology.

As described above if the subscription request is received from the user terminal together with the group code and the e mail address the subscription request receiving unit may confirm whether the e mail address format corresponding to the group code and a host address part of the e mail address received from the user terminal correspond to each other and may generate the authentication key and the e mail authentication code to be recorded in the table for subscription if the e mail address format and the host address part correspond to each other.

As described above the authentication key is an intrinsic pseudorandom key newly generated so as to correspond to the subscription request and may be used for discriminating subscription requests from each other.

The e mail authentication code is an intrinsic value such as an authentication key. For example the e mail authentication code may be generated as a pseudorandom key of 50 kbytes or greater. Here the e mail authentication code is included in the authentication e mail sent from the e mail transmission unit which will later be described. In detail the e mail authentication code is included in the authentication e mail as an authentication link that can be selected by the user so that the user may select click or touch the authentication link which is sensed by the authentication server thereby identifying which e mail authentication code has been confirmed so as to correspond to the authentication e mail. The e mail authentication code may be provided to the user in the format of a string for authentication included in the main text of the authentication e mail rather than in the format of an authentication link as described above. That is to say the e mail authentication code may be provided as one of the authentication link or the authentication string.

According to the first embodiment of group authentication a field of the e mail authentication code may be recorded in the table for subscription. According to the second embodiment of group authentication instead of the field of the e mail authentication code a field of the keyword for authentication may be recorded in the table for subscription. In addition according to the second embodiment of group authentication if different receiving mail addresses of which different users are notified a field of the receiving mail addresses of which the respective users are notified may be included in the table for subscription. Meanwhile according to the third embodiment of group authentication instead of the field of the e mail authentication code a field for recording the identifier or position information of the wireless LAN access point received from the user may be included in the table for subscription.

Meanwhile in the authentication server the group authentication unit includes the e mail transmission unit and the e mail transmission unit may transmit an e mail including the e mail authentication code in the format of an authentication link or a string for authentication. For example the authentication e mail may include information on whether there is an attempt to member subscription in a given service using the e mail address to which the authentication e mail is transmitted information on subscription approval based on selection of the authentication link or information on subscription approval based on entry of the string for authentication into the application and the authentication link or the string for authentication . Then if the authentication link is selected or the string for authentication is recorded the corresponding e mail authentication code may be transmitted to the authentication server thereby confirming user s approval for a given authentication e mail.

Here after transmitting the authentication e mail the e mail transmission unit may transmit the authentication e mail transmittal notification including an authentication key to the user terminal using the push identifier corresponding to the e mail address to which the authentication e mail is transmitted.

Further in the authentication server the group authentication unit may include the e mail authentication unit . After the user confirms the e mail through the e mail authentication terminal the e mail authentication unit may select the authentication link or inputs the string for authentication so that the e mail authentication code is transmitted to the authentication server a value of the group authentication success field corresponding to e mail authentication code in the table for subscription may be processed as being successful. Here a field value that is not recorded in the table for subscription may be recorded or the field value may be changed. That is to say the group authentication success field is a region for recording a value indicating whether the group authentication has been successful or not as the result of successful e mail authentication completion.

As described above if the group authentication success field value is processed as being successful the e mail authentication unit transmits the authentication key together when the authentication e mail confirmation notification is transmitted to the user terminal using the corresponding push identifier.

Accordingly the user terminal may confirm that the group authentication using the authentication e mail is completed. In particular the user terminal may confirm whether the first authentication key and the second authentication key included in the authentication e mail transmittal notification and the authentication e mail confirmation notification are identical with each other and an identical authentication key may be transmitted to the authentication server for make a final authentication request only when the first and second authentication keys are identical with each other.

That is to say the e mail authentication unit may process the group authentication success field value as being successful and may transmit the authentication e mail confirmation notification to the user terminal . Thereafter if an authentication request including the authentication key is received from the user terminal a response indicating that the group authentication has been successfully completed for the authentication request may be transmitted only when the group authentication success field value is confirmed to be processed as being successful.

That is to say if the group authentication success field value is processed as being successful in the authentication server the authentication e mail confirmation notification may be transmitted to allow the user terminal to confirm the successful group authentication so that the user terminal executes an application and transmits the authentication key to the authentication server thereby confirming whether the authentication has been successfully completed or not.

Meanwhile according to the second embodiment of group authentication unlike in the group authentication unit may include an e mail receiving unit and an e mail authentication unit . After the e mail receiving unit notifies the user terminal of a receiving mail address and a keyword for authentication which may include a first authentication key it may receive an authentication e mail optionally including the keyword for authentication in its main text and having a receiving mail address as a recipient and an e mail address previously entered by the user as a sender. In addition if the authentication e mail is received the e mail authentication unit confirms whether the receiving mail address the e mail address corresponding to the receiving mail address and the keyword for authentication correspond to each other in the table for subscription to then process the group authentication success field value as being successful. In addition when the group authentication success field value is processed as being successful the e mail authentication unit may transmit an authentication key a second authentication key to the user terminal together with an authentication e mail confirmation notification.

In addition according to the third embodiment of group authentication after receiving the identifier the wireless LAN access point which the user terminal is capable of access and the current position information from the user terminal instead of the e mail address the group authentication unit may compare the identifier of the wireless LAN access point and the current position information with a pre stored identifier of the wireless LAN access point and an off line address thereby performing group authentication. If the group authentication has been successfully completed the group authentication unit may transmit the authentication key to the user terminal while processing the group authentication success field value in the table for subscription as being successful.

Meanwhile if a response indicating that the group authentication has been successfully completed is received from the authentication server the user terminal provides a user with a screen showing that the group authentication has been successfully completed thereby allowing a password a nickname etc. to be set.

Further according to an embodiment the authentication server includes a member information management unit . The member information management unit receives the nickname and the password entered by the user through the screen of the user terminal showing that the group authentication has been successfully completed. Here the password may be transmitted in the encrypted form as described above.

The member information that is received by the member information management unit from the user terminal is recorded in the following table for members which has various fields as follows.

Here the member number may be a discrimination code newly generated by the member information management unit when the member information is received from the user terminal and is recorded in the table for members.

As described above the encrypted password and the encrypted e mail address may be received from the user terminal . Here the encrypted e mail address may be a hash value stored in the encrypted form using the password the e mail address and optically other additional information for encryption. Here in encrypting the e mail address since the e mail address is encoded in a unidirectionally encrypted manner it may not be decoded. Here when the encrypted e mail address is stored in the authentication server the e mail address is stored in the encrypted state so as not to be finally decoded. However the user terminal first encrypts the user s entered e mail address in a decodable state to then be transmitted to the authentication server and the authentication server decodes the e mail address and then encrypts the same in an undecodable manner. Alternatively since the encrypted e mail address was transmitted from the user terminal to the authentication server the e mail address may be transmitted in an encrypted manner so as not be decodable and may then be stored in the authentication server at it is. For example the encrypted e mail address is encrypted by the user terminal so as not be decodable using the user s entered password and a salt value set by a service provider that is the operator of the authentication server .

As described above the member information management unit records and manages the encrypted password the encrypted e mail address the nickname etc. received from the user terminal . Here the encrypted password may be obtained by decoding the encrypted password received from the user terminal and then encrypting the same in a different manner as described above.

Meanwhile the authentication server may include a redundancy processing unit . The redundancy processing unit may be configured such that member subscription is redundantly performed when there are redundant subscription requests for the same e mail address or there is a re subscription request of a user for which member authentication is completed.

To this end when a new subscription request is received the redundancy processing unit may determine whether the e mail address included in the subscription request is identical with the e mail address pre recorded in the table for subscription and may notify the user terminal that has requested for subscription that the new subscription request is a redundant subscription attempt. Likewise when the new subscription request is received the redundancy processing unit may determine whether the e mail address included in the subscription request is identical with the e mail address pre recorded in the table for redundancy removal which will later be described and may notify the user terminal that the new subscription request is a redundant subscription attempt. Further when the member information including a password etc. is received after the group authentication for the user terminal is completed the redundancy processing unit may determine whether the e mail address received from the user terminal is identical with the e mail address registered in the table for redundancy removal and may notify the user terminal that the new subscription request is a redundant subscription attempt. Here the redundancy processing unit may encrypt a plaintext e mail address using the same encryption logic used when the encrypted e mail address recorded in the table for redundancy removal is encrypted and may then compare the encrypted e mail address with the encrypted e mail address recorded in the table for redundancy removal for determining redundancy.

As described above when the redundancy processing unit notifies the user terminal that the new subscription request is a redundant subscription attempt the user terminal may revoke the existing member subscription may determine whether to make a new member subscription attempt and may notify the authentication server of the determination result. For example if there is a request for new member subscription from the user terminal to the same mail address the redundancy processing unit may delete all of the existing records associated with the corresponding e mail address to then perform again a member subscription procedure.

To this end if the user requests for re subscription after being notified of the redundant subscription attempt the user terminal may transmit the subscription request or the member information together with a forced flag to the authentication server .

In addition when the subscription request or the member information for member authentication is received the redundancy processing unit may delete existing records according the presence or absence of the forced flag even if the same e mail address is pre recorded in the table for subscription or the table for redundancy removal and may perform new group authentication and or member authentication or may ignore the subscription request or registration of member information.

The respective fields of the table for redundancy removal may be recorded by encrypting the e mail address when authentication of an arbitrary user terminal has been successfully completed and newly generating an e mail session key.

Meanwhile the authentication server according to an embodiment may include a session management unit .

The session management unit may newly generate and manage the member session key of the table for members and the e mail session key of the table for redundancy removal.

Here the member session key is synchronized with a member session key provided to the user terminal and stored and the session management unit may discriminate a member using the member session key received from the user terminal and may offer a service.

In addition the e mail session key is a session key stored in the table for redundancy removal and may be provided to the user terminal and stored like the member session key.

As described above the e mail session key and the member session key are separately provided because there is no information associated with the table for members and the table for redundancy removal for membership determination the data deleted when the redundancy removal is performed is only the e mail session key of the table for redundancy removal and it is not possible for the redundancy processing unit to delete the data due to impossible confirmation of the pertinent member session key.

Therefore since the member session key received from the user terminal exists in the table for members and the e mail session key exists in the table for redundancy removal two different session keys are issued to be used for offer the service only when both of the member session key and the e mail session key are effective.

That is to say even if only the e mail session key is deleted during the redundancy removal and the member session key is confirmed to be effected the session management unit may not offer the service in response to a service request including the e mail session key deleted later.

Further the authentication server according to an embodiment may include a bulletin content management unit . The bulletin content management unit may receive and store bulletin contents registered from the user terminal . Here the respective bulletin contents may be divided according to group codes.

The table for bulletin content management may include for example fields for ID numbers of the bulletin contents and numbers of members who have registered the registered reply comments.

In addition the bulletin content management unit may also manage reply comments for the respective bulletin contents. To this end the authentication server may include a reply comment table.

The reply comment table may include fields for ID numbers of the reply comments ID numbers of the bulletin contents on which the reply comments are dependent and numbers of members who have registered the reply comments.

Meanwhile the authentication server according to an embodiment may include a bulletin content providing unit . The bulletin content providing unit may provide the bulletin contents and reply comments managed using the bulletin content table and the reply comment table according to the request from the user terminal .

Here the bulletin content providing unit may notify a posting user of a new event such as registration of a reply comment for bulletin content prepared by the posting user. To this end the authentication server may include a push information table.

The push information table may include fields for ID numbers of the respective bulletin contents and push identifiers of the user terminal having registered the bulletin contents.

Here the data associated with the respective members may not be included in the push information table.

Therefore as described above even if the respective tables registered in the authentication server are all exposed since data pieces being in systematically corresponding relationships and user information are not included in the respective tables it is not possible to know who is a service user specifically a posting user of particular bulletin content.

In addition in the above described embodiment an authentication key a session key and other member information may be exchanged in such a state as originally generated or entered when they are exchanged between the user terminal and the authentication server . However it is evident that the authentication key the session key and other member information may be exchanged such that one party that generates or enter information transmits the information to the other party in an encrypted state and the other party decodes the received information to be used.

Meanwhile in a case where a group authentication method is executed without using an e mail address in certain embodiments herein that is in the third embodiment of group authentication an e mail address for preventing redundant subscription may be separately entered by the user or discrimination information other than the e mail address may be received thereby performing redundancy removal. Alternatively the redundancy removal may not be performed.

Hereinafter an authentication method using the authentication system according to an embodiment will be described with reference to the accompanying drawings.

The following description will be described with regard to the first embodiment of group authentication in which the group authentication is executed by transmitting an authentication e mail including an authentication code but aspects of the present invention are not limited thereto. Rather the authentication method may also be executed using easily replaceable methods in addition to the methods according to the first to third embodiments of group authentication group authentication.

First as shown in if the user enters or selects a group and an e mail address through a screen of the user terminal for a subscription request S the user terminal transmits the group code and e mail address corresponding to the group and a push identifier allocated to an application of the user terminal to the authentication server S .

Accordingly the authentication server records the received e mail address the group code the push identifier etc. in the table for subscription and then determines whether the e mail address is in the format corresponding to the group code S .

If a host address included in the e mail address is not in the e mail address format corresponding to the group code the authentication server transmits an error message to the user terminal S and the user terminal may display the received error message S .

Meanwhile as the result of the determining in step S if it is determined that the e mail address is in the format corresponding to the group code the authentication server may determine whether the e mail address corresponding to the received e mail address is pre registered in the table for redundancy removal or not S .

If the e mail address corresponding to the received e mail address is pre registered in the table for redundancy removal the authentication server may determine whether a forced flag is included in the information received from the user terminal S . If it is determined that the forced flag is included in the information received from the user terminal the authentication server may notify the user terminal that the subscription request is redundant S .

If a redundancy message including a notification of the redundant subscription request is received the user terminal displays the redundancy message S to allow the user to select to continue to proceed with the subscription procedure or to give up the subscription procedure.

If it is determined that the user selects to continue to proceed with the group authentication procedure S the user terminal transmits the group code including the forced flag the e mail address and the push identifier back to the authentication server S .

Meanwhile in step S if it is determined that the e mail address included in the subscription request is not registered in the table for redundancy removal or in step S if it is determined that the forced flag is included in the subscription request received from the user terminal the authentication server generates the e mail authentication code and the authentication key corresponding to the subscription request S to then be recorded in the table for subscription together with information pieces included in the subscription request S .

Here in steps S and S according to the second embodiment of group authentication a receiving mail address and a keyword for authentication may be respectively generated to then be recorded in the table for subscription.

Next the authentication server transmits an authentication e mail including an e mail authentication code S and the authentication key corresponding to the subscription request may be transmitted to the user terminal together with the authentication e mail transmittal notification S . Meanwhile after receiving the authentication key the user terminal may store the received authentication key.

Here in steps S and S according to the second embodiment of group authentication the authentication key may be transmitted to the user terminal while notifying the user terminal of the information on the receiving mail address and the keyword for authentication. Accordingly the authentication key may be stored in the user terminal and the user may transmit the authentication e mail to the authentication server using the user terminal or other types of terminals.

Meanwhile if the authentication e mail is transmitted in the above described manner S thereafter as shown in the e mail authentication terminal receives the transmitted authentication e mail and displays the e mail including an authentication link including the e mail authentication code or a string for authentication including the authentication code S . Here as described above the e mail authentication terminal may be the same terminal with the user terminal .

If the user of the e mail authentication terminal selects the authentication link or enters the string for authentication through the application installed in the user terminal in a state in which the authentication e mail is displayed S the e mail authentication code corresponding to the selected authentication link or the entered string for authentication to the authentication server S .

Here according to the second embodiment of group authentication steps S to S may be replaced with steps of the authentication server notifying the user terminal of the information on the receiving mail address and the keyword for authentication and transmitting the authentication e mail having the notified receiving mail address as a recipient and including the keyword for authentication in its main text to the authentication server .

Accordingly the authentication server searches for an e mail authentication code identical with the e mail authentication code received from the table for subscription and then processes a group authentication success field value corresponding to the searched e mail authentication code as being successful S .

However if an e mail authentication code identical with the e mail authentication code received from the table for subscription is not searched for a received signal is ignored.

According to the second embodiment in step S the authentication server compares information on the sender and recipient of the authentication e mail entered by the user and the keyword included in the main text of the authentication e mail with the information recorded in the table for subscription and processes the group authentication success field value as being successful or unsuccessful.

Meanwhile the authentication server may transmit a push message including the corresponding authentication key that is the authentication e mail confirmation notification using the corresponding push identifier for the subscription request having the group authentication success field value processed as being successful in step S of S .

Accordingly as the result of the user terminal comparing the authentication key received in step S of with the authentication key received in step S of if it is determined that both of the authentication keys are identical with each other S the identical authentication key and the e mail address are transmitted to the authentication server S .

Accordingly the authentication server identifies the group authentication success field value corresponding to the authentication key received in step S S and it is confirmed that the group authentication success field value has been processed as being successful S a response indicating that the group authentication has been successfully completed is returned to the user terminal S .

Accordingly a screen showing that the group authentication has been successfully completed that is a screen allowing the user to enter member information including a nickname and a password is provided to the user terminal S .

Meanwhile as shown in if the screen for entering the nickname and the password is provided to the user terminal after the group authentication is completed the user terminal may receive the nickname and the password from the user S .

Next the user terminal encrypts the e mail address using the entered password and also encrypts the password itself S .

Then the user terminal transmits the member information including the encrypted e mail address the encrypted password the nickname the group code etc. and a pre issued authentication key to the authentication server S .

Here the user terminal may first encrypt the user s entered e mail address in a decodable state to then be transmitted to the authentication server and the authentication server decodes the e mail address and then encrypts the same in an undecodable manner. Alternatively since the encrypted e mail address was transmitted from the user terminal to the authentication server the e mail address may be transmitted in an encrypted manner so as not be decodable and may then be stored in the authentication server at it is.

The authentication server may identify the e mail address corresponding to the authentication key from the table for subscription using the authentication key received together with the member information S .

If the e mail address stored in the table for subscription in the format of a plaintext is identified the authentication server confirms whether the corresponding e mail address is pre registered in the table for redundancy removal using the identified e mail address S . In step S the plaintext e mail address may be encrypted using the same encryption logic used when the encrypted e mail address recorded in the table for redundancy removal is encrypted and the encrypted e mail address may then be compared with the encrypted e mail address recorded in the table for redundancy removal. Here the encryption logic used in encrypting the e mail address may be determined or changed by the operator of the authentication server .

If it is confirmed in step S that the e mail address is redundant the authentication server confirms whether a forced flag is included in the member information or not and if the forced flag is not included in the member information a redundancy message is transmitted to the user terminal S to notify the user terminal that there are redundant subscription attempts for the same e mail address.

The user terminal having received the redundancy message displays the received redundancy message S to allow the user to retry a subscription attempt using the same e mail address or to give up subscription.

If the user terminal intends to quit proceeding with the subscription procedure for completion of member authentication the rest steps of the subscription procedure are all interrupted. However if there is a user input from the user terminal to continue to proceed with the subscription procedure S the user terminal transmits again the member information and the authentication key transmitted in step S together with the forced flag S .

Accordingly the authentication server receives the member information the authentication key and the forced flag and executes again steps S to S.

If it is determined in step S that the e mail address is not included in the table for redundancy removal the authentication server records the e mail address in the table for redundancy removal by newly generating an e mail session key and encrypting the newly generated e mail address S .

Meanwhile if it is determined in step S that the same e mail address is included in the table for redundancy removal but it is determined in step S that the forced flag is included in the member information the authentication server renews and stores the new e mail session key corresponding to the e mail address of the table for redundancy removal S .

Next the authentication server may record the received member information in the table for members and may generate and store the member session key S .

In such a manner if the group authentication is completed for the user terminal having requested for subscription registration of the member information and issuance of the session key are performed and the member authentication procedure is completed the authentication server deletes all of the data associated subscription recorded in the table for subscription S and the e mail session key and the member session key are issued to the user terminal .

Accordingly the user terminal may store the session keys. Here the user terminal may delete all of the temporarily stored data including e mail addresses or group codes while issuing the session keys.

Meanwhile in the above described embodiments the group authentication procedure and the member authentication procedure are divided into several steps and are described with regard to process steps of the authentication server performed in a time series manner. However in the following description the group authentication procedure and the member authentication procedure will be described with regard to the user terminal with reference to .

As shown in if an application is executed in the user terminal S the user terminal checks whether there is a pre issued authentication key S .

Here since the authentication key is deleted from the user terminal due to issuance of a session key the existence of the authentication key may mean that a session key for the corresponding user terminal has not yet been issued that is a subscription procedure has not been completed.

Therefore if it is confirmed in step S that the authentication key is stored in the user terminal the user terminal may receive the authentication key and the e mail address entered by the user and stored to the authentication server S .

Accordingly the authentication server may confirm the group authentication success field value corresponding to the authentication key received from the table for subscription S .

It is confirmed whether a subscription success field value has been processed as being successful or not S .

Then the authentication server may transmit a response indicating that the group authentication has been successfully completed or a response indicating that the group authentication has unsuccessfully completed to the user terminal according to whether the group authentication success field value has been processed as being successful or unsuccessful S and S .

Accordingly if the response indicating that the group authentication has been successfully completed is received in the user terminal S a screen showing that the group authentication has been successfully completed that is a screen allowing the user to enter member information including a nickname and a password for performing member authentication is provided and steps shown in may be performed.

In addition in a case where there is no authentication key or there is an authentication key but group authentication has failed in a case where there is no session key the user terminal may display a subscription request screen S . Accordingly a new group and a new e mail address are received to execute again steps following on and after the group authentication procedure shown in .

Meanwhile in a case where no authentication key exists in the user terminal but a session key exists in the user terminal the user terminal may use the service using the session key S .

Optionally in order to use the service even if the session key exists in the user terminal a screen lock may be cancelled. If the screen is locked S the user terminal may provide the user with a user interface to enter a password S .

Accordingly the password entered by the user may be encrypted and then transmitted to the authentication server together with the session key S .

The authentication server having received the password and the session key may search for a member session key identical with the received session key from the table for members and may compare the encrypted password corresponding to the member searched for from the table for members with the encrypted password received in step S S .

If the two passwords are not identical with each other the authentication server may transmit an error message to the user terminal .

Meanwhile if it is confirmed in step S that the two passwords are not identical with each other the authentication server identifies whether the e mail session key is effective in the table for redundancy removal S a response indicating that authentication has been successfully completed may be transmitted to the user terminal .

Accordingly the user terminal receives the response indicating that authentication has been successfully completed S and may normally use the service S .

Meanwhile in the authentication method having been described with reference to if the group authentication method is replaced by the group authentication method according to the third embodiment the group authentication procedure shown in is executed such that the authentication server receives the group code and the identifier of the wireless LAN access point and the current position information from the user terminal and the identifier of the wireless LAN access point and the current position information are compared with a pre stored identifier of the wireless LAN access point and an off line address and if the compared information pieces are matched with each other the group authentication success field value is processed as being successful and an authentication key is then generated and transmitted to the user terminal . In order to prevent redundant member subscription like in the first or second embodiment an e mail address entered by the user may be registered. However the e mail address may not be used in group authentication but may be used in redundancy removal. The information required for redundancy removal may be replaced by other information such as employee numbers in addition to the e mail address.

The authentication method according to the embodiment shown in includes process steps performed in a time series manner by the authentication system shown in . Therefore even when omitted in the following description the aforementioned content regarding the authentication system shown in may also be applied to the authentication method according to the embodiment shown in .

The authentication method according to the embodiment shown in may be embedded in the form of a recording medium which includes computer executable command languages such as a program module executed by a computer. A computer readable storage medium may be a useable medium that may be accessed by a computer and may include any or all of volatile and non volatile media and or a separable and inseparable media. Further the computer readable storage medium may include any or all of a computer storage medium and a communication medium. The computer readable storage medium may include any or all of volatile and non volatile media or a separable and inseparable media embodied by an arbitrary method or technology for storing information such as computer readable command languages data structures program modules and or other data. The communication medium may typically include any one or more of computer readable command languages data structures program modules and or other data which relates to a modulated data signal such as carrier waves or other transmission mechanism and may also include a particular information forwarding medium.

In addition the authentication method according to an embodiment may be embodied by a computer program or a computer program product which includes computer executable command languages. The computer program includes programmable machine command languages processed by a processor and may be implemented by a high level programming language an object oriented programming language an assembly language or a machine language. In addition the computer program may be recorded in a visible computer readable recording medium for example a memory a hard disk a magnetic optical medium or a solid state drive SSD etc. .

Therefore the authentication method according to an embodiment may be implemented by executing the computer program by a computing device. The computing device may include at least some of a processor a memory a storage device a high speed interface connected to the memory and a high speed extension port and a low speed interface connected to a low speed bus and the storage device. The respective elements may be connected to one another using various buses and may be mounted on a common mother board or may be mounted in another appropriate manner.

Here the processor may process command languages in the computing device. The command languages may include for example commands stored in a memory or a storage device to display graphic information for providing a graphic user interface GUI to an external input or output device like a display connected to a high speed interface. Alternatively a plurality of processors and or a plurality of buses may be appropriately used with a plurality of memories and memory formats. In addition the processors may be embodied by a chip set consisting of chips including in a plurality of independent analog and or digital processes.

In addition the memory may store information in the computing device. In an example the memory may be composed of volatile memory units or a set thereof. In another example the memory may be composed of nonvolatile memory units or a set thereof. In addition the memory may be other types of computer readable media such as magnetic or optical disks.

The storage device may provide a computing device with a large capacity storage space. The storage device may include a computer readable medium or the like. In addition the storage device may include for example devices embedded in a storage area network SAN and others. Examples of the storage device may include a floppy disk device a hard disk device an optical disk device a tape device a semiconductor memory device such as a flash memory or the like or a device array.

Although exemplary embodiments of the present invention have been described in detail hereinabove it should be understood that many variations and modifications of the basic inventive concept herein described which may appear to those skilled in the art will still fall within the spirit and scope of the exemplary embodiments of the present invention as defined by the appended claims. For example the respective functional elements described as unitary forms may be executed in a distributed fashion. In addition and the respective functional elements described may be executed in a combined fashion.

