---

title: Method and apparatus for remote identity proofing service issuing trusted identities
abstract: Illustrative methods, processes, and software are disclosed herein that remotely prove the identity of individuals fully compliant with identity proofing standards and policies. The embodiments may utilize photo identification and government identities using networked capabilities and capabilities within a process for end-to-end fully remote identity proofing followed by the automated provisioning and issuance of a trusted identity and optional credentials. In alternative manifestations the embodiments use automated government identity lookups including but not limited to digital imagery equipment with artificial intelligence and pattern recognition to detect fraudulent physical identification articles remotely, electronic scans of magnetic stripes and other electronic markers on government-issued identification media including but not limited to drivers licenses, government employee identities, passports, or other government-issued identities combined with real-time lookup in trusted databases. In alternative manifestations the embodiments use multiple biometric form factors for proofing, registration, recognition, and authentication.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09197638&OS=09197638&RS=09197638
owner: Michigan Health Information Network—MIHIN
number: 09197638
owner_city: East Lansing
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150309
---
In many industries such as health care banking and finance the protection and ensuring of a person s privacy is often considered a top priority. In certain cases ensuring privacy may also be mandated by law. Thus various health care services providers and stakeholders i.e. a doctor nurse or the like may implement processes and methods that ensure that a person s Protected Health Information PHI is secure and shared with the actual person whose health the information is about. In the banking credit and finance industries both Protected Individual Information PII and Protected Credit Information PCI are secured and shared with the person to whom the information belongs. PHI PII and PCI are of great value and can be targets for theft by hackers who can resell the information.

In the present health care industry various health care services exist that allow a care giver a hospital or other relevant health care provider stakeholder to provide services to a patient. In providing health care the various stakeholders may access private information about a patient or a group of patients and their Protected Health Information PHI and Protected Identity Information PII in order to provide the health care services. Other service oriented industries are similar such as a teller accessing the PII or Protected Credit Information PCI of a bank customer or a credit authorization agent verifying the PII and PCI of a credit card user to permit a financial transaction to be completed.

The services to retrieve and access PHI PCI and PII may be guarded by one or more security firewalls each of which requires an authentication process to get beyond to access the information. The authentication process may be referred to in healthcare or other industries as authentication identity authentication or identity verification.

A illustrative method according to a set of instructions stored on the memory of a computing device includes receiving by a processor of the computing device a request to verify an identity from an applicant device. The method also includes determining by the processor one or more identity proofing requirements. The method also includes receiving by the processor identification information from the applicant device. The method also includes initiating by the processor a real time communication session with the applicant device. The real time communication session is configured to allow a registration authority to inspect the identification information. The method also includes receiving by the processor a registration authority verification that the identification information satisfies the one or more identity proofing requirements. The method also includes sending by the processor in response to receiving the registration authority verification a token to an issuing trusted identity service. The method also includes sending by the processor from the issuing trusted identity service and in response to the token trusted identity information to the applicant device.

An illustrative non transitory computer readable medium having instructions stored thereon that upon execution by a computing device cause the computing device to perform operations. The instructions comprise instructions to receive a request to verify an identity from an applicant device. The instructions further comprise instructions to determine one or more identity proofing requirements. The instructions further comprise instructions to receive identification information from the applicant device. The instructions further comprise instructions to initiate a real time communication session with the applicant device. The real time communication session is configured to allow a registration authority to inspect the identification information. The instructions further comprise instructions to receive a registration authority verification that the identification information satisfies the one or more identity proofing requirements. The instructions further comprise instructions to send in response to receiving the registration authority verification a token to an issuing trusted identity service. The instructions further comprise instructions to send from the issuing trusted identity service and in response to the token trusted identity information to the applicant device.

An illustrative apparatus includes a memory a processor coupled to the memory and a first set of instructions stored on the memory and configured to be executed by the processor. The processor is configured to receive a request to verify an identity from an applicant device. The processor is further configured to determine one or more identity proofing requirements. The processor is further configured to receive identification information from the applicant device. The processor is further configured to initiate a real time communication session with the applicant device. The real time communication session is configured to allow a registration authority to inspect the identification information. The processor is further configured to receive a registration authority verification that the identification information satisfies the one or more identity proofing requirements. The processor is further configured to send in response to receiving the registration authority verification a token to an issuing trusted identity service. The processor is further configured to send from the issuing trusted identity service and in response to the token trusted identity information to the applicant device.

Disclosed herein are systems and methods which can be realized in software hardware or a combination thereof to provide a remote identity proofing service and issue trusted identities RIPSITI . Identity proofing is a process by which a registration authority collect and verify information about a person for the purpose of issuing credentials to that person. A registration authority is trusted entity that establishes and vouches for the identity or attributes of an applicant. In an illustrative embodiment an applicant for a trusted identity may use a computer or other device as disclosed herein and request to have their identity verified in order to receive a trusted identity. Trusted identities are used in many various industries and for many varying purposes. For example industries that utilize trusted identities may include banking and financial management governmental agencies health care institutions or systems etc. Any industry that utilizes or has access to private or protected data information may use trusted identities to manage that data information and control access to that data information.

In some embodiments trusted identities may be issued according to a governing law standard or guideline. The systems and methods disclosed herein can be utilized in a way that is fully compliant with various identity proofing standards and policies. As just one example standards for identity proofing such for any industry are described in National Institute of Standards Technology NIST 800 63 2. As another example industry specific policies may also be applied using the methods and systems disclosed herein. For example industry specific standards may be specified for healthcare by DirectTrust and or the National Association for Trusted Exchange NATE Trust. Other standards that may be used include standards specified by the Kantara Initiative such as identity assurance standards.

In an illustrative embodiment after lower level forms of identity proofing are remotely performed such as antecedent assertions and knowledge based authentication KBA the system can also remotely perform more advanced forms of identity proofing such as remote verification of photo identification government issued identification and signing using networked capabilities such as remote registration authorities and electronic signature and certificate capabilities. An illustrative embodiment can perform all of these remote identity proofing steps and or other steps within a flexible customizable workflow tool that can support unlimited customizations of the remote identity proofing steps in the workflow process for end to end fully remote identity proofing. An illustrative system can remotely prove an identity and automatically provision and issue a trusted identity such as a trusted credential an address for secure simple mail transfer protocol SMTP email such as Direct i.e. an account required to log in to utilize Direct to send secure emails containing protected information a secure text address or a unique trusted login id and one time password for which can be federated for single sign on SSO with other trusted Identity providers and service providers. A single sign on SSO can be utilized to access many various databases and types of protected information that would otherwise utilize separate sign ons. For example an SSO can be used to access living will databases electronic medical records databases for health providers and or patients billing records and more. The system can also inspect video images of photo identities using scanning hardware and software to automatically detect indications of fraud or forgery making the system better and more trusted than human face to face identity proofing. The system can also utilize voice or facial recognition including image processing pattern recognition and other artificial intelligence techniques to remotely match voice and photo captures and photo identities with trusted databases.

In another illustrative embodiment the system can automatically connect with trusted databases such as government licensing databases for identity lookups including but not limited to driver s licensing and passport databases. The system may also include a designated remote identity proofing stations that utilizes scanners to read magnetic stripes and or embedded RFID from a trusted identity card including but not limited to drivers licenses passports government employee or other identity cards issued by government or trusted organizations and then remotely look up and verify the information from the trusted identity card.

In illustrative embodiments the system can support identification based antecedent knowledge and or knowledge based authentication KBA . For some identity proofing standards KBA may be all that is needed to verify an identity. In such a scenario access rights a trusted identity and or a certificate may be granted automatically by the system once KBA is complete and the system need not initiate a real time communication session or interaction with a registration authority. The system can also use multiple biometric form factors for proofing registration recognition and authentication such as facial images and or patterns palm vein patterns iris and or retina images fingerprints real time streaming mobile media usage patterns real time or near real time DNA matching or any other biometric form factors. The system may be embodied as a combination of software and hardware as a client server system a peer to peer system web site Software as a Service or as a pure web service with published secure application programming interfaces APIs for embedding within other systems. The system may also be a combination of any of these types of systems. The embodiments disclosed herein can facilitate cost effective and accurate methods of identity proofing and or issuance of trusted identities by making these processes fully remote and reliable.

In one embodiment real time streaming mobile media usage patterns may be used for identity verification. For example a system for remote identity verification may utilize global positioning system GPS data or similar data such as cellular triangulation that has been collected by a mobile device that is requesting a certificate or otherwise requesting access to protected and or confidential records. In doing so the system may determine whether the mobile device being used has frequented addresses or their associated GPS locations that are associated with the purported individual requesting the access. For example if a person named Dr. Smith is requesting access to the records on her smart phone the system may request location data from the smart phone and determine whether that smart phone had recently frequented known addresses associated with Dr. Smith such as Dr. Smith s home address and the address where she works.

Such identity proofing can be used to authorize access by issuing a trusted identity and thereby allowing single sign on SSO to various types of protected information. Mandates or laws may affect the protection of this information including the storage and access to that information. For example in the United States certain federal statutes apply to the management of healthcare information e.g. the Health Information Portability and Accountability Act HIPAA the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act HITECH Act .

Protected Health Information PHI protected Individual Information PII and Protected Credit Information PCI can all be stored managed and or secured by an illustrative embodiment. One reason to secure PHI PII and PCI is that hackers may attempt to access user and or sell the data. Hackers may sell a person s PHI for much more e.g. fifty times more than the value of their PII or PCI because PHI is more easily used for complete identity theft which is much more valuable than PII or PCI. Accordingly entities storing PHI may have more secure systems that entities storing merely PII and or PCI. One example of an industry where PHI is stored is the healthcare industry.

The services to retrieve and access PHI PCI and PII may be guarded by one or more security firewalls each of which requires an authentication process to get beyond to access the information. The authentication process may be referred to in healthcare or other industries as authentication identity authentication or identity verification. An authentication process to access a person s information may include being prompted to enter a password and or login information undergoing an authentication process using questions and answers or a form of biometric identification. Instead of authenticating each time someone wishes to access information the systems and methods disclosed herein provide for establishing and issuing a trusted identity of an individual that can be used to repeatedly access information in the future without having to re authenticate each time.

Once successful authentication has occurred the stakeholder accessing protected information about persons may be granted an unencumbered access to information. In another example the stakeholder may be granted access to a portion of the stored information. In yet another example a less onerous second authorization process is used to access to more information than is initially available. In another example accessing or sharing different information might utilize different types or levels of authorization processes. In one example access might be directed towards accessing a patient s complete health history protected under federal HIPAA regulations . The authentication process to access this type of information may utilize a high level of trust or credentials that the service provider accessing the information is really the person with permission for the access. Similarly the system may facilitate sharing the information with the consumer or patient to whom the information actually belongs such as sharing a patient s lab test results with the patient or sharing a credit card statement with a consumer.

For example one secure way to share protected information electronically is a form of electronic mail based on The Direct Project called Direct Secure Messaging DSM . DSM is a secure form of the Simple Mail Transfer Protocol developed specifically for use in the health care industry. In order to obtain a trusted account for using Direct from an accredited vendor an applicant may provide proof of their identity a process referred to herein as identity proofing. An illustrative method for identity proofing may include the applicant providing photographic identification to a witness who signs a statement which may then be signed. The witness visually verifies from the photographic identification information that the photo matches the appearance of the person whose identity is being proved. This type of identity proofing may be applied may be applied to other identity proofing and authentication verification processes in health care or other industries.

The National Institute of Standards and Technology NIST has established various standards defining levels of trust for trusted identities. NIST refers to these standards as Level of Assurance or LOA. Conventionally several of these standards involve in person identity proofing lookup processes associated with government issued identity cards and several other forms of processes to ensure that the requesting party is proven to be who they claim to be before they can be issued a trusted identity.

As noted above NIST refers to each standard level of trust as a Level of Assurance LOA . NIST has established various numbers associated with the LOA depending on how rigorous a party desires the authentication process to be. These range from LOA 1 the weakest level of trusted identity to LOA 4 the highest level of trust that a person possessing and using a trusted identity is authenticated as being the person to whom the trusted identity was issued. LOA 3 and LOA 4 can involve the use of biometric forms of identification such as digital fingerprints digital scans of palm vein patterns digital scans of the iris or retina facial recognition or even real time DNA sequencing and matching.

For example the Office of the National Coordinator ONC recommends that a Direct address i.e. an account required to log in to utilize Direct to send secure emails containing PHI PCI or PII only be given to those parties that undergo an authentication under LOA 3. The Department of Veterans Affairs authenticates identities that have been proofed at LOA 3. In this scenario once a party has undergone the requirements under LOA 3 i.e. proving their identity a service granting a trusted identity to access medical services via the Direct Protocol may send the verified party a trusted identity. Some other organizations in healthcare may accept a lower level of trust LOA 2. A leading industry consortium consisting of most of the vendors which offer Direct called DirectTrust.org has its members use a level of trust that is higher than LOA 2 but lower than LOA 3 in order to become and remain accredited to be in a trust bundle that allows persons having a Direct account from one accredited vendor to send Direct Secure messages to another person having a Direct account from a different accredited vendor of Direct accounts.

Thus in healthcare or in any other industry in order to ensure that a trusted identity is distributed to a correct and verified party an issuing trusted identity service may mandate that a requesting party prove the identity of each person applying for an account via the established level of assurance associated with the service being rendered.

For example for the Direct Protocol the established standard employed is generally either LOA 2 LOA 3 or somewhere in between these two levels of assurance. As noted above identity proofing can involve the presentation of the adequate documentation such as a government issued identification ID and a verification that the party presenting the government ID is the party associated with the presented or uploaded government ID.

However such methods of identity proofing may cause an unwanted delay in receiving a trusted identity to access relevant health care applications and services. For example in medicine any sort of delay may affect the quality of care given to a patient. For example if a stakeholder forgets a password or is temporarily blocked from services the process of re establishing a trusted identity may be onerous and ultimately frustrate a stakeholder s ability to provide service. In other words a stakeholder may have to go through the process of presenting identification and having it verified and signed which can be time consuming and inconvenient particularly if it includes an in person verification.

In an illustrative embodiment a trusted identity is used to gain access to a variety of health care information. The trusted identity may be mandated due to a governmental regulation and further may utilize a pre established set of criteria to 1 obtain the trusted identity or 2 re obtain information about the trusted identity. For example if a doctor forgets or loses a password or trusted identity file required for authentication the doctor is required to re obtain the password or trusted identity file.

As noted above to get a trusted identity a doctor or stakeholder physically presents the required information for example the requirements mandated by LOA 3 . This can be time consuming costly and a hindrance to the overall quality of health care provided. Instead the doctor may utilize the methods and systems disclosed herein to get a trusted identity more easily. Such methods include remotely authenticating a party for health care related services. By employing the aspects disclosed herein the process to provide trusted identity and re certify the party may become seamless. The systems and methods disclosed herein are more efficient than having to find an agent to verify and cross reference the information provided for verification to obtain or re obtain a trusted identity. Because the aspects disclosed herein are remote and automatic the prior delays caused by in person verification are obviated.

The storage device is a non transitory computer readable storage medium such as a hard drive compact disk read only memory CD ROM DVD or a solid state memory device. The memory holds instructions and data used by the processor . The pointing device is a mouse track ball or other type of pointing device and is used in combination with the keyboard to input data into the computer . The pointing device may also be a gaming system controller or any type of device used to control the gaming system. For example the pointing device may be connected to a video or image capturing device that employs biometric scanning to detect a specific user. The specific user may employ motion or gestures to command the point device to control various aspects of the computer .

The graphics adapter displays images and other information on the display . The network adapter couples the computer system to one or more computer networks.

The computer is adapted to execute computer program modules for providing functionality described herein. As used herein the term module refers to computer program logic used to provide the specified functionality. Thus a module can be implemented in hardware firmware and or software. In one embodiment program modules are stored on the storage device loaded into the memory and executed by the processor .

The types of computers used by the entities and processes disclosed herein can vary depending upon the embodiment and the processing power required by the entity. The computer may be a mobile device tablet smartphone wearable computer or any sort of computing element. For example a data storage device such as a hard disk solid state memory or storage device might be stored in a distributed database system comprising multiple blade servers working together to provide the functionality described herein. The computers can lack some of the components described above such as keyboards graphics adapters and displays .

The computer may act as a server. The computer may be clustered with other computer devices to create the server. The various computer devices that constitute the server may communicate with each other over a network.

As would be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented on any system network architecture configuration device machine or apparatus and is not to be construed as being limited to any specific configuration network or systems even though an example system is shown and described with respect to . The embodiments herein may be suitably implemented on conventional computing devices for example computer workstations on Internet based applications on optical computing devices neural computers biological computers molecular computing devices and other devices. As may be appreciated by those skilled in the art the present systems and methods in short may be implemented on any system automaton and or Turing machine.

An automaton is herein described as a mechanism that is relatively self operating and designed to follow a predetermined sequence of operations or respond to encoded instructions. A Turing machine is herein described as an abstract expression of a computing device that may be realized or implemented on an infinite number of different physical computing devices. Examples of systems automatons and or Turing machines that may be utilized in performing the process of the present methods and systems include but are not limited to electrical computers for example an International Business Machines IBM personal computer neuro computers for example one similar to the General Purpose Neural Computer described in U.S. Pat. No. 5 155 802 issued to Paul H. Mueller on Oct. 13 1992 molecular computers for example one similar to the Molecular Automata Utilizing Single or Double Strand Oligonucleotides described in U.S. Pat. No. 5 804 373 issued to Allan Lee Schweiter et al. on Sep. 8 1998 biological computers for example one similar to the biological computer presented by Ehud Shapiro of the Computer Science and Applied Mathematics Department at the Weizman Institute of Science Rehovot Israel at the Fifth International Meeting on DNA Based Computers and optical computers. For purposes of simplicity such devices hereinafter are referred to as computers as is commonly understood in the art. But the embodiments disclosed herein are not limited being applied to such devices and may be accomplished upon any system or collection of systems capable of providing the features and functions identified herein.

Methods processes and software are disclosed herein that remotely prove the identity of individuals fully compliant with identity proofing standards and policies especially standards such as NIST 800 63 2 LOA1 3 DirectTrust and or NATE Trust. The methods processes and software may utilize photo identification and government identities using networked capabilities and capabilities within a process for end to end fully remote identity proofing followed by the automated provisioning and issuance of a trusted identity and optional credentials. In alternative manifestations the methods processes and software use automated government identity lookups including but not limited to digital imagery equipment with artificial intelligence and pattern recognition to detect fraudulent physical identification articles remotely electronic scans of magnetic stripes and other electronic markers on government issued identification media including but not limited to drivers licenses government employee identities passports or other government issued identities combined with real time lookup in trusted databases. In alternative manifestations the methods processes and software support identification based on antecedent knowledge and or knowledge based authentication. In alternative manifestations the methods processes and software use multiple biometric form factors for proofing registration recognition and authentication such as facial images and patterns palm vein patterns iris and or retina images fingerprints real time streaming mobile media usage patterns real time or near real time DNA matching or any other biometric form factors. The methods processes and software disclosed herein can be manifested in software and or hardware as a client server system a peer to peer system web site software as a service or as a pure web service with published secure application programming Interfaces APIs for embedding within other systems. These methods processes and software replace cost ineffective and failure prone face to face identity proofing with fully remote and more reliable cost effective identity proofing.

In an operation of the method an applicant visits the remote identity proofing service and issuing trusted identity RIPSITI website . The website may be accessed through a personal computer mobile computer wearable computer tablet computer laptop computer or any other device capable of being connected to the remote identity service on the internet or other network. In this embodiment the device applicant is using is referred to as an applicant device. The device may not be owned by the applicant but is nonetheless referred to herein as the applicant device. The applicant device may be a personal computer laptop smart phone wearable computer kiosk tablet computer etc. Furthermore in alternative embodiments the RIPSITI may not be a website and may instead be a specific software application stored on a computing device. In any of the disclosed embodiments the applicant device may access and utilize a communications network such as the internet in order to communicate with other devices such as one administrating or storing the RIPSITI.

Using the applicant device and the website the applicant can request to verify an identity. The request to verify an identity may also take the form of a request for a trusted identity and or direct account. The request is sent to the remote identity proofing service . The request may also include information from or about the applicant in order to prove the applicant s identity. Such information may be entered into forms answered questions uploaded documents etc.

In an operation the applicant uploads identification information for use in the identity proofing and verifying by the registration authority. The identification information may include a government issued identification for example. In an illustrative embodiment the remote identity proofing service RIPS may also determine the requirements for the identity proofing. For example the RIPS may determine the requirements based on the request from the applicant. That is what the applicant is requesting is relevant in determining how and what should be shown to meet different identity proofing standards. In another embodiment the identity proofing requirements may be pre determined before an applicant requests identity proofing and a trusted identity. In yet another alternative embodiment the system may have multiple pre determined identity proofing requirements such as ones that correspond with varying levels of assurance LOAs and the system will match a pre determined identity proofing requirement with a request when the system receives the request. In these ways the system can determine what steps are involved and what information and proof of identity is used to perform the identity proofing. In alternative embodiments as disclosed herein identification information or documents may not be uploaded by the applicant. For example identification information may be looked up in a database and or inferred based on log in information. In another example identification documents may be presented to a registration authority in a live video feed during a real time communication session.

In an operation the system initiates a real time communication session with a live registration authority device. A person referred to herein as the registration authority can check the identification provided by the applicant and perform in person verification utilizing the systems and methods as disclosed herein. For example the real time communication session may involve audio and video between the applicant device and the registration authority RIPSITI device. In this way the applicant and the registration authority can talk to and see each other even over a long and or physically remote distance. Thus remote identity proofing even under an in person standard is accomplished. Using the video of the real time communication session the registration authority may check a photo identification of the applicant and compare the photo to the applicant s actual face. Accordingly the real time communication session allows a registration authority to inspect identification information provided by the applicant and thereby complete the identity proofing particularly any in person identity proofing . Other information may be used to verify an identity a government ID cross referenced with the person presenting the government ID this may be authenticated via biometric scanning and or image video sensors used to cross reference with an online database to secondarily authenticate fingerprinting biometric sensing palm vein patterns iris and or retina images real time streaming mobile media usage patterns and or real time or near real time DNA matching. The system may also automatically check information entered by the applicant or about the applicant with databases such as known property records databases phone records etc.

The RIPS may also utilize a health provider directory HPD and or a session archive . The session archive may be utilized to store the session between the applicant and the registration authority. The session archive may save some or all of a session. For example the audiovisual feed between the applicant device and the RIPS may or may not be stored. Completed forms including signed certified etc. may also be stored in the session archive . Other information such as personal information entered or KBA questions answered may also be stored in the session archive .

The HPD may be utilized to populate the certain information used by the RIPS to perform identity proofing. The HPD is a directory of health providers. Information regarding health providers is stored along with a national provider identifier NPI . Thus the NPI links a health provider to their data already stored in the HPD . Accordingly instead of manually entering data the applicant may simply enter their NPI and the RIPS can query the HPD for any data pertaining to the applicant. The data found can be used to populate various fields requested by the RIPS to perform the identity proofing. For example examples of such data are discussed below with respect to .

Whether through information uploaded by the applicant information received from the HPD or information manually input by the applicant and or the registration authority a form may be completed in the process of the identity proofing. The form may also be signed by the applicant and or the registration authority. The form may include electronic signatures or digital certificates. In some instances the applicant may sign the form during the real time communication so it may be witnessed by the registration authority. The registration authority may digitally sign and or apply a digital certificate to the form depending on the type of identity proofing being performed. The signature or certificate of the registration authority may represent a registration authority confirmation that the particular requirements for the identity proofing have been met. In other embodiments the registration authority confirmation may be a different input such as checking a box filling out a form or any other way of verifying that the identity proofing requirements for a particular scenario have been met.

In an operation the completed form is sent to the applicant device. In an operation the completed form is sent to an issuing trusted identity ITI service and to the applicant. The ITI service is a part of the remote identity proofing and issuing trusted identity RIPSITI service. In an alternative embodiment a remote identity proofing service and an issuing trusted identity service may be separate systems. The completed form is also sent to a form archive for storage. An API may also be used to send the form to the form archive . The form that is sent to the ITI service may be an API sending a token and metadata representing the form values. The form as it was digitally signed by the applicant and the registration authority may be sent by an API to the form archive . In that embodiment the metadata may still link to or be linked to the form stored in the form archive . The token may be metadata a digital certificate an identifier a digital or electronic representation of a system user identity credential or session or another conveyance for sending digital or electronic information between systems subsystems and or users. The token may be an access token that allows the ITI service to release issue a trusted identity to the applicant device. Accordingly in an operation the ITI service issues the trusted identity and or Direct messaging account information to the applicant or the applicant device . In this way the applicant can use the trusted identity and or Direct messaging account information in the future without having to do identity proofing again. The trusted identity includes access credentials such as a username and a one time password for the applicant to use for the first time the trusted identity is utilized. The access credentials may be utilized in a single sign on environment. The applicant can subsequently change their password to continue using the trusted identity and single sign on. Optionally the system may also trigger an automated provisioning of a Direct secure messaging identity and account information including a username and temporary password. This may occur at various times including but not limited to before the operation after the operation but before the operation or may occur after the operation . In alternative embodiments the trusted identity and or Direct messaging account information may include a permanent rather than a temporary password.

Sending the trusted identity and or Direct messaging account information to the applicant may be done in different ways. For example one of the user name or password may be sent out of band that is through a different medium . For example a user name may be displayed by the system to the applicant after identity proofing is complete see e.g. . The password may be sent out of band to the applicant. The password may be sent through e mail a text message a chat message the Direct messaging account fax voice call or any other medium of exchanging information such that the applicant has access to it. In another illustrative embodiment the system may not display a user name to the applicant all of the access credentials are issued to the applicant through mediums other than the remote identity proofing system.

In an operation a request from an applicant to verify an identity and or acquire a trusted identity herein a request to verify an identity is used broadly to include within that request a request to acquire a trusted identity . The request may take various forms in various embodiments. The request may be a specific input from an applicant. The request may specify what type of identity verification the applicant seeks. The request may specify an entity the applicant is seeking a trusted identity for. The request may also be input in various ways. For example the request may occur simply by the user logging in or otherwise accessing the remote identity services. In another example the information in the request may be selected from a list or otherwise input by the applicant. In another example the contents of the request may be inferred by the remote identity services. For example the remote identity services may support multiple universal resource identifiers URI that all access the remote identity services. However different URIs may indicate to the identity access what the applicant is seeking identity proofing for. That is the request may be sent to the remote identity proofing services by virtue of the URI used.

In an operation the system determines identity proofing requirements. As disclosed herein that determination may or may not be made based on the specifics of the request to verify an identity. The identity proofing requirements may be determined based on the request to verify an identity. That is what type of request is received may affect the requirements. Accordingly the requirements may be determined from log in information a URI or link used to access the services specific inputs from the user etc. The requirements determined may indicate what type of credentials are issued e.g. Direct Messaging Service account Trusted Identity what level of assurance LOA or other identity proofing must be performed verified whether biometric information is to be captured how captured biometric information is used or connect to the issued credentials etc. The requirements may also indicate specific types of identity proofing to be used. In other words the system determines whether it should perform knowledge based authentication KBA in person verification biometric verification signature matching etc. In one illustrative embodiment the system may not determine identity proofing requirements. In such an embodiment the system may be configured to perform the same identity proofing for every applicant and not distinguish between different identity proofing requirements and thus requirements would never be determined .

In an operation the system receives identification information from the applicant. The applicant may enter all of their identifying information. In an alternative embodiment an applicant may enter relatively little identifying information. For example the system may receive an identifier such as a national provider identifier NPI which may be used to look up a provider applicant in a database. Information in the database associated with the NPI can then be used to automatically populate the identification information. In another alternative embodiment the applicant may not enter any identification information. In this embodiment the system can automatically determine the identification information. For example if an applicant logs in the system may determine from a known user database the identification information associated with the log in information. In an operation the knowledge based authentication KBA as disclosed herein is performed. The identification information is entered into a form. The form may be a standard form provided by the remote identity proofing service. The form may be a specific form customized for the particular credentials to be issued or entity the credentials are being issued for. In this embodiment the specific form may be stored and accessible by the remote identity proofing services so that the form can be used easily. If a specific form is used the remote identity proofing services may determine the appropriate form to use based on the determined identity proofing requirements as determined in the operation . In an operation the system initiates a real time communication session between the applicant and the registration authority.

In an operation the registration authority inspects the identification information presented or uploaded by the applicant. In doing so the registration authority can confirm the identity of the applicant as shown in an operation . In an operation the applicant and the registration authority can sign authenticate and or add digital certificates to an form. This may happen during the real time communication session or outside of the real time communication session.

In an operation the system sends session data to a session archive. The session data is stored so that a record of the session is maintained by the remote identity proofing service. The session data may be different data in different embodiments. For example the session data stored may be audio and video recordings of the session. Another example may only store video or may only store audio of the session. Video stored may be any of a recording of the interfaces displayed to the applicant and or registration authority or actual video feeds from cameras that are recording the applicant and or registration authority. Session data may also be data regarding the real time communication session. For example session data may include the name of the applicant and or registration authority the time of day of the session the length of the session what credentials were issued what level of assurance LOA or other identity proofing requirements applied to the session the outcome of the session was the identity verified or any other data related to the session. In one illustrative embodiment video and audio information is not stored as session data but the other data related to the session is. In an operation the completed form is sent to an archive. As noted herein the completed form may be a standard form or a credential credentialing entity specific form.

In an operation the system sends an token and metadata representing the contents of the form to the issuing trusted identity ITI service. The ITI service may be integrated into the system or may be separate from the system. In an operation the ITI service issues the trusted identity to the applicant.

In an operation biometric information is captured by the system. The biometric information is then connected to the issued trusted identity in an operation . The applicant may now use the trusted identity to gain access to various records using single sign on as shown in an operation .

In an illustrative embodiment the system verifies the identity of the applicant requestor automatically as disclosed herein. For example the system may analyze the applicant s face and entered identification information and check it against a database to verify the applicant s identity.

The user interface shows a variety of inquiries used to configure the real time interaction or communication between the applicant and the registration authority. For example inquiry asks for information regarding a discount code. If an applicant has a promotional or other discount code it can be entered as an answer to the inquiry to ensure that discounts are applied when a client is billed or charged for the remote identity proofing service. Discounts may be any type of discount such as a limited time promotional discount a new applicant discount a frequent proofer discount a bulk or group services discount or otherwise. In another embodiment a discount may be applied automatically based on a known customer and the discount code may not be entered. Other questions on the user interface include inquiries about the applicants webcam whether they have had a physical address in the United States and whether the applicant agrees to the terms of service. The applicant is asked to enter whether or not they have a webcam because the webcam facilitates the identity proofing process particularly when it is used during a real time video communication. It is also used so that the applicant can present via the video from a webcam various documents and or forms of identification such as government issued identification and or other photo identification.

As discussed above with respect to the system also allows the applicant to upload files at file upload area . In an alternative embodiment and as explained in the text in the system also allows an applicant to upload a document later once the applicant has joined a live session with a registration authority. In another alternative embodiment the system may have already stored forms that an applicant can populate. Such forms may be commonly used forms. In yet another embodiment if an applicant has used the system before old forms that have previously been uploaded may also be available for selection and editing.

The user interface shows various questions that make up an example knowledge based authentication. Here questions are posed to the applicant that those other than the applicant should not have knowledge of. Knowledge based authentication can be used as disclosed herein.

The user interface shows a video feed where the applicant can see the registration authority. The user interface also includes a self feed where the applicant can see himself or herself. The user interface also includes a chat where the registration authority and the applicant can communicate through text. The user interface therefore makes communication easy for both the applicant and the registration authority.

The user interface also includes a view of the identity proving document . Both the applicant and the registration authority have a view of this document. Accordingly the document can be digitally signed by the applicant in the presence of the registration authority. The menu shows that text digital signatures and check marks may all be downloaded to be incorporated into the identity proving document . For example the applicant could download and put in the document a digital signature and or identification information used to fill out the form. The menu also includes an option to complete the document and or replace the document with another identity proving document.

The my signature my text and my signature buttons may be selected to determine what is input into the document displayed on the screen. For example in the my signature button is selected. Accordingly a cursor shows where the applicant would add a signature if location where the cursor currently is selected by the applicant. In the cursor is located in the applicant signature area of the form. This is where the applicant or applicant s signature is input. The signature area shows where the identity registration authority signature is input. Table shows where information on the form also shown in is input or populated regarding the individual requesting identity proofing. Verification area allows the registration authority to certify that the applicant s identity has been verified providing check boxes to designate types of identification checked providing instruction and dating on how the identity was checked. Check boxes may be filled if the my check mark button at the top of the user interface was selected. Pre stored text may be input when my text is selected or custom text may be entered. As is shown in and discussed below the various buttons at the top may have their respective signature text or check mark edited. shows how the signature may be edited in an illustrative example.

In the user interface the applicant may use the type tab to type their own custom signature into the text entry box . Any text entered into the text entry box is then reproduced in different styles below such as style . The user interface also includes a check box which allows the applicant signer etc. to save a signature as my signature. In this way the system can recall the signature for future use so that the determined signature can be used at a later date without having to re enter a signer s preferences. The signature can be added to the document by selecting the add button .

The user interface may appear after the applicant selects a space on the form shown in while the my signature button is selected. The user interface may also appear if the applicant otherwise designates that the signature dialog should be shown such as a right click of a mouse and selection of a edit my signature menu choice. In addition to the type tab the user interface also includes the upload and my signature tabs. If the upload tab is selected the applicant may be able to import into the interface and or the system a signature stored on or otherwise accessible to the signer s electronic device. If the my signature tab is selected the applicant may view or edit a previously saved signature.

In an illustrative embodiment a form is digitally signed by the registration authority as a witness either in session or outside of the session. In other words the registration authority may or may not sign the form in the user interfaces shown in . For example a product such as Adobe Acrobat may be used to input the signature or digitally sign the form. In various embodiments such as this one the registration authority may also input a digital certificate into the form.

Where the digital certification and or signature is entered into the form not using the system user interfaces shown in the form may be downloaded from the system server and onto a computer operated by the registration authority. In this way the registration authority can adequately apply their signature to the document while it is locally stored on their computer. Once that is complete the document can then be uploaded back onto the system server so that the information can be sent out and the trusted identity or other account type are issued or provisioned to the applicant.

Certain of the devices shown in include a computing system. The computing system includes a processor CPU and a system bus that couples various system components including a system memory such as read only memory ROM and random access memory RAM to the processor. The aspects disclosed herein may be suitably implemented on conventional computing devices for example computer workstations on Internet based applications on optical computing devices neural computers biological computers molecular computing devices and other devices. As may be appreciated by those skilled in the art the aspects disclosed herein may be implemented on any system automaton and or automated machine.

The user interface includes a get started button a see quick demo button and a prices button . If the applicant interacts with the button through a mouse click touch screen voice command etc. then the remote identity proofing will proceed to get information from the applicant with the aim of issuing a trusted identity. Interacting with the button can constitute a request to verify an identity from an applicant device. Interacting with the button may direct the applicant to a user interface such as the one shown in .

If the applicant interacts with the button the applicant may directed to an interface that demonstrates how the remote identity proofing service works and what the various interfaces look like. Accordingly a demonstration incorporating any of the systems and methods disclosed herein may be shown. If the applicant interacts with the button the applicant is directed to a user interface that displays prices for remote identity proofing. The price list may include prices for different types of services different health systems or geographic areas various discounts such as promotional or group discounts etc.

After reading the terms and conditions the user can check a box indicating that they agree with the terms and conditions . In one illustrative embodiment the applicant may not be able to check a box indicating they agree to the terms and conditions until the applicant has scrolled through the entire terms and conditions . After agreeing to the terms and conditions the system may save a copy of the agreement. Further the system may insert a timestamp on the agreement to indicate a time and or date of when the applicant agreed to the terms and conditions . The system may also include the copy of the agreement with a form to be filled out in subsequent user interfaces. After agreeing to the terms and conditions the system navigates to another user interface such as the user interface shown in .

The user interface requests a national provider identifier NPI from an applicant if an NPI is available. First the system requests the NPI at a questions . If the applicant has an NPI the applicant may interact with the yes button . If the applicant does not have an NPI the applicant may interact with the no button . If the applicant interacts with the no button the applicant is directed toward a page such as the user interface shown in . If the applicant interacts with the yes button the applicant may then enter their NPI into the dialog box . In one embodiment the dialog box may not be present until the applicant interacts with the yes button . Once the applicant has entered the NPI into the dialog the applicant may interact with a next button to advance to a next user interface such as the one shown in .

If an NPI is entered the system may look up that provider in a health provider directory HPD . The HPD may provide more information on the applicant. The additional information can be used to populate fields of various forms including the one displayed in . The information from the HPD about the provider applicant may be provided via a query to the HPD. The query may be through a rest restful API to the HPD. The HPD may be maintained and stored by the system or may be outside and independent of the systems disclosed herein.

As disclosed above some or all of the fields in the table in the user interface may be populated automatically based on the HPD query results. The user interface also includes a dialog that allows a user to input a discount code for remote identity proofing and issuing trusted identity services. Different types of discount codes may be accepted and applied as a credit toward services rendered. Different discount codes may trigger different features workflows and or billing payment processing. Some discount codes may effectively comprise pre paid credits for any remote identity proofing services.

For example the user may upload a first and second form of identification. The first form of identification may be a government identification with picture. A second form may be a recent financial statement or utility bill with a current address. When uploading an identification the applicant may select the specific type from among types and . The applicant may then use the select buttons and to confirm the types selected in and . Furthermore the browse to file buttons and can be selected to find a document store on an applicant device. In other embodiments the forms of identification may be different based on the identity proofing requirements for the type of trusted identity requested by the applicant.

In an alternative embodiment to an applicant may not upload identification documents to the remote identity proofing system. Instead the applicant may present identification documents to the registration authority through the live video feeds displayed to the registration authority such as the one shown in . If the identification is not uploaded may not be displayed as an interface. In an alternative embodiment a substitute interface may be used. For example a substitute interface may inform the applicant as to what types of identification the applicant should present to the registration authority once the session starts. In another alternative embodiment may be displayed largely as shown but may include an option for the applicant to select an option that indicates the applicant will present the identification during the session rather than upload it. Presenting the identification may include holding up a form of identification to a camera being used for a live video feed of the real time communication session.

After choosing the selection the applicant may select a start session button . This will initialize a real time communication session with a registration authority as shown in dialog . Depending on what the applicant selects at the selection it will determine what credentials are issued later in the process see e.g. and accompanying description below . In other words if an applicant only asks for a trusted identity the applicant will only receive one trusted identity upon completion of the remote identity proofing.

In alternative embodiments to the selection may be different. For example other credentials or features may be selected. For example the interface may allow a choice to collect biometric information after the applicant s identity has been verified. In other embodiments the forms of identification may be different based on the identity proofing requirements for the type of trusted identity requested by the applicant. In another embodiment additional choices for credentials may be present. Additional indications of how an applicant intends to utilize biometric information or credentials may be present which can help determine whether to issue certain types of credentials to the applicant. In another embodiment the applicant may not be displayed with a choice to select types of credentials. In such an embodiment the system may default to issuing a certain credential s and perform the identity proofing accordingly. In another alternative embodiment the system may determine which credentials should be issued based on the identity of the provider applicant the applicant s log in information a URI used to access the remote identity proofing system etc. In other words the system may automatically infer which credentials to issue based on other information received by the system. For example if a doctor logs on who is a part of St. Michael s hospital the system may identify that the doctor is from St. Michael s based on the doctor s log in information explicit input from the doctor information looked up on a database using the doctor s NPI information implied from a particular URI used by the doctor the system may recognize particular links as being associated with particular info such as St. Michael s hospital . In the embodiment where a URI is used to determine particular information different URIs may be issued to or used by different entities. The system may recognize the URI as attempting to navigate to remote identity proofing services and navigate them there but the URIs are different such that the system can infer information from them such as the example here where a particular URI is associated with a particular hospital and type of credentials to issue .

During the real time communication session the registration authority may examine including performing an in person identity proofing identification of the applicant including forms of identification that were previously uploaded. In this example the registration authority is examining the applicants driver s license . For identification types using a picture identification the registration authority inspects that the applicant live video feed matches the picture from the picture identification. After doing so the registration authority would then indicate the identification checked on a form here a standard form. In an alternative embodiment the identification may be viewed and verified through the live video feed

A verification summary and verification detail is shown in the user interface . The verification summary and verification detail shows that the applicant in this case has a verified image government identification and financial information. The verification detail confirms that these verifications have been successful by displaying checkmarks. If there were verifications that were not successful a check mark would not appear. In another embodiment a different icon might appear such as an X. Once the applicant has finished viewing the user interface the user can proceed by interacting with the next button .

The signed and completed form also includes an applicant signature and an alternative embodiment including a digital and visual notary seal if applicable. The applicant signature is applied digitally by the applicant during the real time communication session. As disclosed herein the registration authority may be able to witness the applicant sign the form during the real time communication session. This may comply with various identity proofing standards such as NIST LOA 3. In the alternative embodiment the registration authority may notarize the form the applicant may sign the form during the real time communication session before the seal is applied. In the alternative embodiment the registration authority may be a notary public authorized to notarize signed documents. For example a notary public may be an official notary public of the Commonwealth of Virginia United States which permits electronic notary verification. A notarization and subsequent notary seal as shown in may be applied to the form if applicable because of identity proofing requirements. The system can record the identification type verified by the registration authority on the form as well as the time stamp of the terms and conditions agreement. After the form is completed and digitally signed automated workflow APIs are triggered to send any completed forms a digital token and metadata to a issuing trusted identity service. The completed digitally signed form is also sent to the applicant or downloaded by the applicant.

The user interface also introduces the topic of biometric capture to supplement and or accompany an applicant s trusted identity. If the applicant selects start biometric capture the device will attempt to initialize a biometric capture with hardware attached to or in communication with the device. This may work well if the applicant is at a biometric capture equipped device or kiosk or has possession of hardware that captures biometric data. If the applicant selects the find nearest kiosk button the system may locate a kiosk or kiosks within relatively close proximity that are capable of capturing biometric information. Additionally the applicant may be able to schedule a biometric capture at a mobile or remote location that has biometric capture hardware software. A mobile location may be brought to the applicant and the applicant may schedule an appointment for such an occasion. In other words a biometric capture could happen anywhere and could happen separate in time and place from the identity proofing. If the applicant selects the button the system may navigate the applicant to a user interface as shown in .

Sending the trusted identity and or Direct Secure Messaging account information to the applicant may be done in different ways. For example one of the user name or password may be sent out of band that is through a different medium . For example a user name may be displayed by the system to the applicant after identity proofing is complete. The password may be sent out of band to the applicant. The password may be sent through e mail a text message a chat message the Direct Secure Messaging account fax voice call or any other medium of exchanging information such that the applicant has access to it. In another illustrative embodiment the system may not display a user name to the applicant all of the access credentials are issued to the applicant through mediums other than the remote identity proofing system.

In an illustrative embodiment the user interface in and the user interface in are shown in sequence. In this embodiment the order may be switched. Also in this embodiment the system will have issued a trusted identity and Direct Secure Messaging account. In another embodiment the trusted identity and Direct Secure Messaging account information may be displayed on a single user interface. That is elements of the user interface and the user interface may be shown together in a single user interface. In another illustrative embodiment the system may not issue both a trusted identity and a Direct Secure Messaging account. In such an embodiment only the interface relating to the actually issued credentials would be shown. In an illustrative embodiment determinations about which interface is shown and which credentials are issued may be based on user input at the user interface in . In other words if an applicant only selects to receive a trusted identity then only the user interface and not is displayed to the applicant in issuing the trusted identity.

In another illustrative embodiment the user interface may be displayed first giving the applicant their Direct messaging services information. Instead of displaying the user interface to provide the trusted identity information the system may instead display a user interface or include on the user interface instructions that instructs the user to log in to their new Direct account in order to receive their trusted identity. Other information than trusted identity information may also be sent to the applicant s Direct messaging account. For example the completed identity form biometric information or other issued credentials may also be sent to the applicant s Direct messaging account.

Biometrics may be utilized along with a trusted identity in various ways. For example a palm scan is associated with the trusted identity such that an applicant may use the palm scan as a single sign on into a system that supports palm scan reading. In another embodiment biometric information may be utilized to issue or re issue a trusted identity or direct trust messaging account. In an embodiment where a new trusted identity or Direct Secure Messaging account is requested issued a database may already have that applicant s biometric data stored. In other words the system may be able to match an applicant to his or her biometric data just as the system would match an applicant to any other data such as an address. In an embodiment where biometric data is used to re issue a trusted identity or Direct Secure Messaging account the biometric data may be stored in a database prior to a first issue of a trusted identity as in the previous example or the biometric data may have been acquired as part of a previous identity proofing process.

Various physical systems such as a computing system may be used as described herein to perform various methods described herein may use various memory elements. The computing system may include more than one processor or a group or cluster of computing system networked together to provide greater processing capability. The system bus may be any of several types of bus structures including a memory bus or memory controller a peripheral bus and a local bus using any of a variety of bus architectures. A basic input output BIOS stored in the ROM or the like may provide basic routines that help to transfer information between elements within the computing system such as during start up. The computing system further includes data stores which maintain a database according to known database management systems. The data stores may be embodied in many forms such as a hard disk drive a magnetic disk drive an optical disk drive tape drive or another type of computer readable media which can store data that are accessible by the processor such as magnetic cassettes flash memory cards digital versatile disks cartridges random access memories RAMs and read only memory ROM . The data stores may be connected to the system bus by a drive interface. The data stores provide nonvolatile storage of computer readable instructions data structures program modules and other data for the computing system.

To enable human and in some instances machine user interaction the computing system may include an input device such as a microphone for speech and audio a touch sensitive screen for gesture or graphical input keyboard mouse motion input motion detection camera for video and photo input and so forth. An output device can include one or more of a number of output mechanisms such as a display screen a printer or speaker. In some instances multimodal systems enable a applicant to provide multiple types of input to communicate with the computing system. A communications interface generally enables the computing device system to communicate with one or more other computing devices using various communication and network protocols.

Embodiments disclosed herein can be implemented in digital electronic circuitry or in computer software firmware or hardware including the herein disclosed structures and their equivalents. Some embodiments can be implemented as one or more computer programs i.e. one or more modules of computer program instructions encoded on a tangible computer storage medium for execution by one or more processors. A computer storage medium can be or can be included in a computer readable storage device a computer readable storage substrate or a random or serial access memory. The computer storage medium can also be or can be included in one or more separate tangible components or media such as multiple CDs disks or other storage devices. The computer storage medium does not include a transitory signal.

As used herein the term processor encompasses all kinds of apparatus devices and machines for processing data including by way of example a programmable processor a computer a system on a chip or multiple ones or combinations of the foregoing. The processor can include special purpose logic circuitry e.g. an FPGA field programmable gate array or an ASIC application specific integrated circuit . The processor also can include in addition to hardware code that creates an execution environment for the computer program in question e.g. code that constitutes processor firmware a protocol stack a database management system an operating system a cross platform runtime environment a virtual machine or a combination of one or more of them.

A computer program also known as a program module engine software software application script or code can be written in any form of programming language including compiled or interpreted languages declarative or procedural languages and the program can be deployed in any form including as a stand alone program or as a module component subroutine object or other unit suitable for use in a computing environment. A computer program may but need not correspond to a file in a file system. A program can be stored in a portion of a file that holds other programs or data e.g. one or more scripts stored in a markup language document in a single file dedicated to the program in question or in multiple coordinated files e.g. files that store one or more modules sub programs or portions of code . A computer program can be deployed to be executed on one computer or on multiple computers that are located at one site or distributed across multiple sites and interconnected by a communication network.

To provide for interaction with an individual the herein disclosed embodiments can be implemented using an interactive display such as a user interface. Such user interface s may include interactive features such as pop up or pull down menus or lists selection tabs and other features that can receive human inputs.

The computing system disclosed herein can include clients and servers. A client and server are generally remote from each other and typically interact through a communications network. The relationship of client and server arises by virtue of computer programs running on the respective computers and having a client server relationship to each other. In some embodiments a server transmits data e.g. an HTML page to a client device e.g. for purposes of displaying data to and receiving user input from a user interacting with the client device . Data generated at the client device e.g. a result of the user interaction can be received from the client device at the server.

In an illustrative embodiment any of the operations described herein can be implemented at least in part as computer readable instructions stored on a computer readable medium or memory. Upon execution of the computer readable instructions by a processor the computer readable instructions can cause a computing device to perform the operations.

The foregoing description of illustrative embodiments has been presented for purposes of illustration and of description. It is not intended to be exhaustive or limiting with respect to the precise form disclosed and modifications and variations are possible in light of the above teachings or may be acquired from practice of the disclosed embodiments. It is intended that the scope of the invention be defined by the claims appended hereto and their equivalents.

