---

title: Freeplay measurement device
abstract: A freeplay measurement device for measuring freeplay in a ruddervator includes a forward horseshoe assembly, an aft horseshoe assembly, a L-shaped locator, a connecting assembly, a load applicator, and a measuring device. The forward horseshoe assembly forms a half of an ellipse that can slip on the forward half of the tail. The aft horseshoe assembly forms a half of an ellipse that can slip on the aft half of the tail and ruddervator. The L-shaped locator is for aligning the forward horseshoe assembly on the tail and perpendicularly extends from the forward horseshoe assembly. The connecting assembly connects the forward horseshoe assembly and the aft horseshoe assembly when each is placed over the tail and the ruddervator. The load applicator is for applying loads on the ruddervator. The measuring device is for measuring the deflections of the ruddervator being tested, and is attached to the forward horseshoe assembly.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09499283&OS=09499283&RS=09499283
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 09499283
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150615
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without payment of any royalties thereon or therefor.

Freeplay can be defined but without limitation as the positional or rotational variation in mechanical parts. All aircraft include movable control surfaces for directional control during flight. Control surfaces which are movable include but without limitation the rudder the aileron the elevator and the all moveable horizontal tail of an aircraft. These control surfaces particularly those operated in a military environment must be monitored for the freeplay of the control system. Excessive freeplay can result in flutter vibrations fatigue divergence or other instabilities. Historically freeplay testing involves using complex ground fixtures. This testing is time consuming requires a large team and is very expensive.

Freeplay is typically tested by applying a known load to the control surface and measuring the corresponding deflection. This is repeated over numerous different loads both positive and negative for a minimum of three cycles. For example a rotational variable differential transformer is used to measure rotation between a rudder and a tail of an aircraft while a test hydraulic actuator and a load cell are used to record the load. Such setups are labor intensive and take a significant amount of time.

The latest United States Navy program requires that a freeplay test be performed after every flight. This adds excessive cost and time to aircraft maintenance. Therefore an alternative method to test freeplay of control surfaces is needed. In particular there is a need to test the free play of a ruddervator. A ruddervator may be defined but without limitation as a pair of control surfaces on a v tail design that perform the function of both a rudder and an elevator.

The present invention is directed to a freeplay measurement device for measuring freeplay in a ruddervator. The measurement device includes a forward horseshoe assembly an aft horseshoe assembly a L shaped locator a connecting assembly a load applicator and a measuring device. The forward horseshoe assembly forms a half of an ellipse that can slip on the forward half of the tail. The aft horseshoe assembly forms a half of an ellipse that can slip on the aft half of the tail and ruddervator. The L shaped locator is for aligning the forward horseshoe assembly on the tail and perpendicularly extends from the forward horseshoe assembly. The connecting assembly connects the forward horseshoe assembly and the aft horseshoe assembly when each is placed over the tail and the ruddervator. The load applicator is for applying loads on the ruddervator. The measuring device is for measuring the deflections of the ruddervator being tested and is attached to the forward horseshoe assembly.

It is a feature of the present invention to provide a freeplay measurement device that is easy to use and is inexpensive.

It is a feature of the present invention to provide a freeplay measurement device that can measure freeplay quickly and utilize less than two people.

It is a feature of the present invention to provide a freeplay measurement device that does not require use of hydraulics or complex computer programs.

The preferred embodiments of the present invention are illustrated by way of example below and in . As shown in a typical aircraft has a tail with a forward half and an aft half . An aircraft may also have a ruddervator located at the aft half of the tail . As shown in a freeplay measurement device for measuring freeplay in a ruddervator of an aircraft comprises of a forward horseshoe assembly an aft horseshoe assembly a L shaped locator a connecting assembly a load applicator and a measuring device . The forward horseshoe assembly has a first forward u shaped bracket a second forward u shaped bracket and a plurality of forward support braces . The plurality of forward support braces connect the first forward u shaped bracket and the second forward u shaped bracket such that the first forward u shaped bracket and the second forward u shaped bracket form a half of an ellipse that can slip on the forward half of the tail . The forward part of the forward horseshoe assembly may include a forward support brace that includes a polycarbonate contact surface. The forward support brace connects the first forward u shaped bracket and the second forward u shaped bracket to ensure proper positioning on the leading edge of the tail being tested. The aft horseshoe assembly has a first aft u shaped bracket a second aft u shaped bracket and at least one aft support brace . The aft support brace connects the first aft u shaped bracket and the second aft u shaped bracket such that the first aft u shaped bracket and the second aft u shaped bracket form a half of an ellipse that can slip on the aft half of the tail and the ruddervator . The L shaped locator is for vertically locating and aligning the forward horseshoe assembly on the tail . The locator perpendicularly extends from the first forward u shaped bracket . The connecting assembly can connect the forward horseshoe assembly and the aft horseshoe assembly when each is placed over the tail and the ruddervator . The load applicator is for applying loads on the ruddervator and the load applicator is attached to the aft horseshoe assembly . The measuring device is for measuring the deflections of the ruddervator being tested and is attached to the forward horseshoe assembly particularly the second forward u shaped bracket .

As seen in in the preferred embodiment the load applicator can be a machine screw jack apparatus with a jack screw and a load handle for increasing or decreasing the load. However any type of load applicator that is practicable can be utilized. The load applicator or machine screw jack apparatus may be attached to the aft horseshoe assembly particularly to both the first aft u shaped bracket and the second aft u shaped bracket via a jack mount assembly . The jack mount assembly may be a bracket that connects the two aft u shaped brackets and has an area for attaching the load applicator . The load applicator can include a ruddervator bracket that communicates with the ruddervator being tested via a load indicator gauge such that load is applied to the ruddervator . The load applicator may also include a digital load indicator which indicates the load being put on the ruddervator .

The freeplay measuring device may also include at least one clamp assembly . The clamp assembly is at least one clamp attached to a forward support brace that secures the device to the tail and the ruddervator . Two of the support braces opposite the two clamp assemblies have a polycarbonate contact surface attached in such a way as to provide a sufficient clamp force from the clamp assemblies and so that the tail being tested is not damaged.

As seen in the measuring device may be two id c indicators that are attached to the forward horseshoe assembly via a measuring device bracket and can be connected to the forward horseshoe assembly via measuring device screws .

Typically a tail includes a tip and a mass balance . In the preferred operation as seen in the forward horseshoe assembly is positioned until the L shaped locator corresponds with the tip of the tail and is positioned under the mass balance of the tail . The aft horseshoe assembly is slipped over the back end of the ruddervator aligned with the forward horseshoe assembly and the ruddervator bracket is aligned with the ruddervator . In other embodiments there may be multiple ruddervator brackets for equal distribution of load on the ruddervator . Once each horseshoe assembly is positioned over the tail and the ruddervator the aft horseshoe assembly is attached to the forward horseshoe assembly using the connecting assembly . As shown in the connecting assembly may be eight connecting assembly screws. However any type of connecting assembly that is practicable may be utilized. The clamp assembly is then engaged in order to secure the device to the tail and the ruddervator . The measuring device which includes two dial indicators is then attached to the forward horseshoe assembly using the measuring device bracket and three measuring device screws . The load applicator is then engaged and a load is applied to the ruddervator . The load handle is turned until the desired load is achieved by reading the digital load gage indicator . The corresponding deflections as observed on the two dial indicators are recorded with the load. This process is done in increments of 10 of the maximum desired load until 100 is achieved. Then the load handle is turned in the opposite direction such as to incrementally unload the control surface. This is done in 10 increments until the maximum negative load is achieved. For each step the load and corresponding deflections are recorded. The load handle is then turned in the original direction in increments of 10 until zero load is achieved all the while recording load and deflections. This process is repeated a minimum of three times to ensure repeatability.

In the description of the present invention the invention will be discussed in a military aircraft environment however this invention can be utilized for any type of application that requires use of a freeplay measurement device.

When introducing elements of the present invention or the preferred embodiment s thereof the articles a an the and said are intended to mean there are one or more of the elements. The terms comprising including and having are intended to be inclusive and mean that there may be additional elements other than the listed elements.

Although the present invention has been described in considerable detail with reference to certain preferred embodiments thereof other embodiments are possible. Therefore the spirit and scope of the appended claims should not be limited to the description of the preferred embodiment s contained herein.

