---

title: Wireless technology bridging system
abstract: A bridged wireless communication system includes a user device that is configured to perform wireless communications natively using a second wireless technology, and a wireless technology bridging system chassis such as, for example, a user device case, coupled to the user device. The wireless technology bridging system chassis houses a first technology wireless controller that is configured to perform wireless communications using a first wireless technology that is different from the second wireless technology, and a second technology wireless controller that is configured to perform wireless communications using the second wireless technology. A bridging engine receives first wireless communications of the first wireless technology through the first technology wireless controller, converts the first wireless communications from the first wireless technology to the second wireless technology, and sends the first wireless communications of the second wireless technology through the second wireless technology controller and to the user device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09560503&OS=09560503&RS=09560503
owner: PayPal, Inc.
number: 09560503
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150428
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 012 722 filed on Aug. 28 2013 entitled WIRELESS TECHNOLOGY BRIDGING SYSTEM the full disclosure of which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety and for all purposes.

The present disclosure generally relates to mobile payments and other mobile functionality and more particularly to wireless technology bridging system that allows a user device to make mobile payment and or use other mobile functionality that requires a wireless technology that is not natively supported by the user device.

More and more consumers are purchasing items and services over electronic networks such as for example the Internet. Consumers routinely purchase products and services from merchants and individuals alike. The transactions may take place directly between a conventional or on line merchant or retailer and the consumer and payment is typically made by entering credit card or other financial information. Transactions may also take place with the aid of an on line or mobile payment service provider such as for example PayPal Inc. of San Jose Calif. Such payment service providers can make transactions easier and safer for the parties involved. Purchasing with the assistance of a payment service provider from the convenience of virtually anywhere using a mobile device is one main reason why on line and mobile purchases are growing very quickly.

However some user devices such as for example mobile phones may be limited by the wireless technology provided natively in those user device and those limitations may result in the inability to make a mobile payment using a mobile payment system or utilize other mobile system functionality known in the art. For example some mobile user devices such as for example Android mobile user devices available from a variety of different manufacturers including Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd of Suwon South Korea include Near Field Communication NFC wireless controllers in the mobile user device that allow for native NFC communications with other NFC devices such as for example Point Of Sale devices used in mobile payment systems to conduct payment transactions with a merchant. Other mobile user devices such as for example iPhone mobile user devices available from Apple Inc. of Cupertino Calif. include Bluetooth wireless controllers in the mobile user device to allow for native Bluetooth or Bluetooth low energy BLE communications with other Bluetooth devices such as for example merchant location check in devices used in mobile check in systems that allow a user to connect their mobile user device to a merchant device or other check in system provider device.

However because many mobile user devices only natively support one type of wireless technology those mobile user devices cannot function with systems that use another type of wireless technology. Using the examples provided above many iPhone mobile user devices cannot use mobile payment systems incorporating NFC wireless controllers while many Android devices cannot use check in systems incorporating Bluetooth wireless controllers.

Embodiments of the present disclosure and their advantages are best understood by referring to the detailed description that follows. It should be appreciated that like reference numerals are used to identify like elements illustrated in one or more of the figures wherein showings therein are for purposes of illustrating embodiments of the present disclosure and not for purposes of limiting the same.

The present disclosure describes systems and methods for bridging wireless technologies such that a user device may communicate using a wireless technology that is not native to that user device. In some embodiments the user device includes a second technology wireless controller e.g. a Bluetooth wireless controller that is configured to perform wireless communications using a second wireless technology e.g. Bluetooth wireless technology a Bluetooth Low Energy BLE wireless technology etc. and thus the second wireless technology is native to the user device. However a wireless communication system provided by for example a merchant device in a merchant physical location may be configured to perform wireless communications using a first wireless technology e.g. a Near Field Communications NFC wireless technology for which a first wireless controller e.g. an NFC wireless controller is not included in the user device and as such the first wireless technology is not native to the user device. The wireless technology bridging systems and methods described herein provide for wireless communication between the user device and the wireless communication system of the merchant device by including each of a first technology wireless controller and a second technology wireless controller on a circuit board that is housed in a wireless technology bridging system chassis e.g. a user device case an adhesive chassis etc. that is configured to be coupled to the user device.

In operation the first technology wireless controller in the wireless technology bridging system is used to receive first wireless communications of the first wireless technology from the first technology wireless controller in the wireless communication system of the merchant device and a bridging engine in the wireless technology bridging system converts those first wireless communications from the first wireless technology to the second wireless technology. The second technology wireless controller in the wireless technology bridging system is then used to send the first wireless communications of the second wireless technology to the second technology wireless controller in the user device. The user device then responds with second wireless communications of the second wireless technology using the second technology wireless controller in the user device and the second technology wireless controller in the wireless technology bridging system is used to receive those second wireless communications. The bridging engine in the wireless technology bridging system converts those second wireless communications from the second wireless technology to the first wireless technology and the first technology wireless controller in the wireless technology bridging system is then used to send the second wireless communications of the first wireless technology to the first technology wireless controller in the wireless communication system of the merchant device. As such the user device is enabled to communicate with the wireless communication system of the merchant device despite the fact that each utilize a different wireless technology.

Referring now to an embodiment of a method for bridging wireless technologies is illustrated. In the embodiments discussed below one or more merchant devices at a merchant physical location operate to provide a wireless communication system that utilizes a first wireless technology and the wireless technology bridging system of the present disclosure is used to enable communications between the wireless communication system and a user device by bridging that first wireless technology and a different second wireless technology that is native to the user device. However the wireless communication system that utilizes the first wireless technology may be operated by any wireless system provider and thus should not be limited to those operated by merchants.

Furthermore in some of the embodiments discussed below the wireless communication system that utilizes the first wireless technology is provided at least in part to enable communication with a payment service provider such as for example PayPal Inc. of San Jose Calif. that provides various payment services that allow users to interact with merchants using user devices and merchant devices respectively. For example the payment service provider may enable the user to check in or otherwise indicate their presence at the merchant physical location to for example access payment services merchant information and or other check in functionality known in the art. Furthermore the payment service provider may enable payment transactions between the user device and the merchant device by receiving instructions from the user device to transfer funds from a user account of the user e.g. provided by an account provider the payment service provider etc. to a merchant account of the merchant e.g. provided by an account provider the payment service provider etc. in order to make a purchase. However these users of the wireless communication system are meant to be merely exemplary and one of skill in the art in possession of the present disclosure will recognize that the wireless technology bridging system may be used for a wide variety of wireless communications scenarios while remaining within the scope of the present disclosure.

The method begins at block where a wireless technology bridging system is provided that includes a wireless technology bridging system chassis that houses a bridging engine and bridging components. Referring first to an embodiment of a wireless technology bridging system is illustrated. In the illustrated embodiment the wireless technology bridging system includes a wireless technology bridging system chassis that houses a circuit board . As discussed in further detail below each of a non transitory memory system and a processing system including one or more hardware processors may be mounted to the circuit board and bridging instructions may be included on the non transitory memory system that when executed by the processing system cause the processing system to provide a bridging engine that is configured to perform the functionality discussed below. In an embodiment the bridging instructions may provide a mapping between one or more wireless communication services or characteristics for a wireless technology that is not native to a user device and wireless communication services or characteristics for a wireless technology that is native to the user device along with one or more communication patterns required to complete one or more predefined transactions discussed in further detail below.

The bridging engine is coupled e.g. by couplings on the circuit board such as traces or other circuit board connectors known in the art that are connected to the processing system to a first technology wireless controller that is mounted to the circuit board . The first technology wireless controller is configured to perform wireless communications using a first wireless technology. In a first set of embodiments discussed below the first technology wireless controller is a Bluetooth technology wireless controller that is configured to perform wireless communications using a Bluetooth wireless technology. In specific examples of the first set of embodiments discussed below the Bluetooth technology wireless controller is configured to perform wireless communications using Bluetooth Low Energy BLE wireless technology that provides for reduced power consumption and lower cost relative to traditional Bluetooth wireless technology while maintaining the same communication range. In a second set of embodiments discussed below the first technology wireless controller is an NFC technology wireless controller that is configured to perform wireless communications using an NFC wireless technology. However while these two examples of wireless technologies are provided in the examples discussed below one of skill in the art in possession of the present disclosure will recognize that a wide variety of different technology wireless controllers other than those explicitly mentioned herein that perform wireless communications using a wide variety of different wireless technologies may be used as the first technology wireless controller without departing from the scope of the present disclosure.

The bridging engine is also coupled e.g. by couplings on the circuit board such as traces or other circuit board connectors known in the art that are connected to the processing system to a second technology wireless controller that is mounted to the circuit board . The second technology wireless controller is configured to perform wireless communications using a second wireless technology that is different than the first wireless technology used by the first technology wireless controller . In a first set of embodiments discussed below the second technology wireless controller is an NFC technology wireless controller that is configured to perform wireless communications using an NFC wireless technology. In a second set of embodiments discussed below the second technology wireless controller is a Bluetooth technology wireless controller that is configured to perform wireless communications using a Bluetooth wireless technology. In specific examples of the second set of embodiments discussed below the Bluetooth technology wireless controller is configured to perform wireless communications using BLE wireless technology. However while these two examples of wireless technologies are provided in the examples discussed below one of skill in the art in possession of the present disclosure will recognize that a wide variety of different technology wireless controllers other than those explicitly mentioned herein that perform wireless communications using a wide variety of different wireless technologies may be used as the second technology wireless controller without departing from the scope of the present disclosure.

In the illustrated embodiment an antenna is coupled to the first technology wireless controller and an antenna is coupled to the second technology wireless controller and each of the antennas and are configured for use in sending and receiving wireless communications through the first technology wireless controller and the second technology wireless controller respectively. In one example each of the antennas and may be coupled to the first technology wireless controller and the second technology wireless controller respectively by being mounted to the circuit board and connected through traces or other circuit board connectors known in the art. In another example each of the antennas and may be included in the first technology wireless controller and the second technology wireless controller respectively and or otherwise coupled the first technology wireless controller and the second technology wireless controller without be mounted to the circuit board . While only one antenna is illustrated as being provided for each of the first technology wireless controller and the second technology wireless controller multiple antennas may be provided for each of the first technology wireless controller and the second technology wireless controller in for example a diversity antenna scheme. Furthermore a single antenna or multiple antennas in for example a diversity antenna scheme may be shared by each of the first technology wireless controller and the second technology wireless controller while remaining within the scope of the present disclosure.

Referring next to an embodiment of a wireless technology bridging system is illustrated that is substantially similar to the wireless technology bridging system discussed above with reference to but with the provision of additional wireless controllers of different wireless technologies. As such similar components including the bridging engine the first technology wireless controller the second technology wireless controller and the antennas and include similar reference numbers. However the wireless technology bridging system includes the bridging engine coupled e.g. by couplings on the circuit board such as traces or other circuit board connectors known in the art that are connected to the processing system to a third technology wireless controller and up to an nth technology wireless controller that are mounted to the circuit board . The third technology wireless controller is configured to perform wireless communications using a third wireless technology that is different from the first wireless technology used by the first technology wireless controller and the second wireless technology used by the second technology wireless controller . For example the third technology wireless controller may be a Wifi technology wireless controller that is configured to perform wireless communications using a Wifi wireless technology. As illustrated in a variety of different type technology wireless controllers may be provided in the wireless technology bridging system

Furthermore in the illustrated embodiment an antenna is coupled to the third technology wireless controller and antennas e.g. the antenna may be coupled to any other technology wireless controllers e.g. the nth technology wireless controller included in the wireless technology bridging system similarly as discussed above with reference to the wireless technology bridging system . Furthermore as also discussed above with reference to the wireless technology bridging system any number of different technology wireless controllers in the wireless technology bridging system may share any number of antennas.

While the wireless technology bridging systems and of have been provided for clarity of discussion and illustration other components connections and or other features known in the art may be provided on the circuit board without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. For example in some embodiments the wireless technology bridging system or may include a battery or power source connector e.g. to connect to and receive power from a user device in order to power the wireless technology bridging system or . In a specific example a power source connector on the wireless technology bridging system that connects to a power source on the user device may allow for the connection of a similar type connector to the power source connector so that the wireless technology bridging system does not need to be disconnected from the user device to for example charge the user device. Furthermore while the bridging engine e.g. provided by a non transitory memory and one or more hardware processors and wireless controllers and have been illustrated and described as separate components in some embodiments the bridging engine and each of the different technology wireless controllers may be provided on the same hardware processor or combination of hardware processors while remaining within the scope of the present disclosure.

Referring now to an embodiment of a wireless technology bridging system coupled to a user device is illustrated. The wireless technology bridging system may be or include some or all of the components of the wireless technology bridging systems and or discussed above with reference to . In the illustrated embodiment an adhesive is used to couple the wireless technology bridging system to the user device .

In one example the wireless technology bridging system chassis of the wireless technology bridging system may be provided as a sticker with the wireless technology bridging system chassis including a protective covering that houses the circuit board and components of the wireless technology bridging system discussed above with reference to . Examples of protective coverings that may provide the wireless technology bridging system chassis include a casing made of a plastic material a metal material a rubber material and or a variety of other materials that one of skill in the art in possession of the present disclosure would recognize would protect the components of the wireless technology bridging system while allowing the functionality discussed here and thus fall within the scope of the present disclosure. The adhesive may be included on the wireless technology bridging system chassis protective covering e.g. such that the wireless technology bridging system is provided as a sticker to apply to a user device on the chassis of the user device and or may be applied by a user to either of the wireless technology bridging system chassis protective covering or the chassis of the user device . Given current components sizes the wireless technology bridging system is envisioned as being dimensioned similar to a stick of gum although larger and smaller sizes of the wireless technology bridging system e.g. based on reduced component sizes in the future will fall within the scope of the present disclosure.

Referring now to an embodiment of a wireless technology bridging system is illustrated. The wireless technology bridging system may be or include some or all of the components of the wireless technology bridging systems and or discussed above with reference to . In the illustrated embodiment the wireless technology bridging system is provided as a user device protective case.

In one example the user device protective case of the wireless technology bridging system includes a device case chassis that defines a user device housing that is configured to house a user device a camera aperture defined by the device case chassis a microphone aperture defined by the device case chassis a speaker aperture defined by the device case chassis and a data and power connector aperture defined by the device case chassis . In the illustrated embodiment the circuit board and components of the wireless technology bridging system discussed above with reference to are embedded in the device case chassis as illustrated by the dashed line in indicating the location of the circuit board . While one of skill in the art will recognize the user device protective case illustrated in as a protective case for a mobile phone they will recognize that a wide variety of cases for other types of user devices e.g. tablet computers laptop computers etc. will fall within the scope the present disclosure as will different locations of the circuit board e.g. attached the user device case rather than embedded in the device case chassis .

While a few examples of wireless technology bridging systems have been provided that include an adhesive chassis that may be adhered to a user device as well as a user device protective case that may house a user device one of skill in the art will recognize that the wireless technology bridging system described herein may be provided in a wide variety of other configurations while remaining within the scope of the present disclosure. For example in some embodiments the wireless technology bridging system may be provided within a user device or in a manner that it may be shared by a plurality of user device.

As discussed above a user device of the user may provide second wireless technology that is native to that user device due to the inclusion of a second technology wireless controller included in the user device but the user may wish to be able to utilize a first wireless technology or other wireless technology that is different from the second wireless technology but that is not native to the user device. In a first set of embodiments discussed below the second wireless controller in the user device includes an NFC wireless controller that is configured to perform wireless communications using an NFC wireless technology and the user wishes to be able to utilize a Bluetooth wireless technology such as BLE wireless technology provided at a merchant physical location for participating in a check in system. In a second set of embodiments discussed below the second technology wireless controller in the user device is a Bluetooth technology wireless controller that is configured to perform wireless communications using a Bluetooth wireless technology and the user wishes to be able to utilize an NFC wireless technology provided at a merchant physical location for participating in a payment system. However as discussed above the bridging of any different wireless technologies may fall within the scope of the present disclosure. Thus a block of the method a user may adhered the wireless technology bridging system to their user device the user may house their user device in the user device housing of the wireless technology bridging system and or may otherwise couple their user device to the wireless technology bridging system.

Referring now to and or and the method then proceeds to block where first wireless communications of a first wireless technology are received by the bridging engine in the wireless technology bridging system through the first wireless controller in the wireless technology bridging system.

Referring first to a first set of embodiments of the method includes a merchant physical location that may be a merchant brick and mortar store or other merchant place of business including a plurality of walls that may define the merchant physical location along with an entrance that provides users access to the merchant physical location . In the illustrated embodiment the merchant at the merchant physical location uses one or more merchant devices to provide a wireless communication system that includes a first technology wireless check in beacon . The first technology wireless check in beacon includes a first technology wireless controller that is configured to perform wireless communications using a first wireless technology that is different from the second wireless technology that is native to a user device which may be any of the user devices discussed above of a user that has entered the merchant physical location e.g. through the entrance . The user device has been coupled to the wireless technology bridging system of in block of the method. While the wireless technology bridging system of is discussed below with regard to the embodiments including any of the wireless technology bridging systems discussed above may be substituted for the wireless technology bridging system while remaining within the scope of the present disclosure.

As discussed above in one example of this first set of embodiments the first wireless technology is a Bluetooth wireless technology such as for example BLE wireless technology and the first technology wireless controller in the first technology wireless check in beacon is a Bluetooth wireless controller the second technology wireless controller in the user device is an NFC wireless controller that is configured to perform wireless communications using an NFC wireless technology and the wireless technology bridging system includes a Bluetooth wireless controller as the first technology wireless controller and an NFC wireless controller as the second technology wireless controller .

At block of the method a user with the user device coupled to the wireless technology bridging system may enter the merchant physical location through the entrance . In specific embodiments the first technology wireless check in beacon may be broadcasting first wireless communications as check in information using BLE wireless technology. For example the first technology wireless check in beacon may broadcast check in information that may include a merchant identifier a location an advanced encryption standard AES key and or a variety of other check in information known in the art and that check in information may be recognizable by a check in application on the user device in the background of an operating system on the user device . However because the check in information in the first wireless communication is broadcast using the first wireless technology the user device is unable to receive that first wireless communication directly i.e. because the first wireless technology is not supported natively by the user device due to the lack of a first technology wireless controller . However at block the bridging engine in the wireless technology bridging system receives the first wireless communication from the first technology wireless check in beacon through the first technology wireless controller e.g. using the antenna . 

The table provided below lists a few examples of check in information that may be included in the broadcast from the first technology wireless check in beacon at block of the method 

Referring next to a second set of embodiments of the method include a merchant physical location that may be a merchant brick and mortar store or other merchant place of business including a plurality of walls that may define the merchant physical location along with an entrance that provides users access to the merchant physical location . In the illustrated embodiment the merchant at the merchant physical location uses one or more merchant devices to provide a wireless communication system that includes a first technology wireless Point Of Sale POS device that includes a first technology wireless controller that is configured to perform wireless communications using a first wireless technology that is different from the second wireless technology that is native to a user device which may be any of the user devices discussed above that is coupled to the wireless technology bridging system of . While the wireless technology bridging system of is discussed below as being used in the embodiment illustrated in any of the wireless technology bridging systems discussed herein may be substituted for the wireless technology bridging system while remaining within the scope of the present disclosure.

As discussed above in one example of this second set of embodiments the first wireless technology is an NFC wireless technology and the first technology wireless controller in the first technology wireless POS device is an NFC wireless controller the second technology wireless controller in the user device is a Bluetooth wireless controller that performs wireless communications using Bluetooth wireless technology and the wireless technology bridging system includes an NFC wireless controller as the first technology wireless controller and a Bluetooth wireless controller as the second technology wireless controller .

At block of the method a user with the user device coupled to the wireless technology bridging system may have selected one or more products and or services available at the merchant physical location and may then approach the first technology wireless POS device to initiate a payment transaction with the merchant to pay for the one or more products and or services. In one example the first technology wireless POS device may operate as an NFC tag by broadcasting an NFC signal that includes NDEF record information such as that is recognizable by a payment application on the user device to begin a payment transaction when the user device is positioned adjacent the first technology wireless POS device . However because the payment information in the first wireless communication is broadcast using the first wireless technology the user device is unable to receive that first wireless communication directly when positioned adjacent the first technology wireless POS device i.e. because the first wireless technology is not supported natively by the user device due to the lack of a first technology wireless controller . However at block when the user device is positioned adjacent the first technology wireless POS device the bridging engine in the wireless technology bridging system will receive the first wireless communication from the first technology wireless POS device through the first technology wireless controller e.g. using the antenna . In an embodiment NDEF record information may include for example 3 bit Type Name Format TNF information that indicates how to interpret the variable length type field Variable length type information that describes the type of the record variable length ID information that is a unique identifier for the record variable length payload information that is the actual data payload that is to be read or written and or a variety of other NDEF record information known in the art.

The method then proceeds to block where the bridging engine in the wireless technology bridging system converts the first wireless communications of the first wireless technology to first wireless communication of a second wireless technology i.e. the first wireless communications received at block are converted from the first wireless technology to the second wireless technology .

Referring back to the first set of embodiments illustrated in the bridging engine in the wireless technology bridging system has received the first wireless communications of the Bluetooth wireless technology e.g. BLE wireless technology from the first technology wireless check in beacon . As discussed above the first wireless communication of the BLE wireless technology includes check in information that includes a merchant identifier a location an AES key and or a variety of other check in information known in the art. At block the bridging engine may convert the first wireless communication of the BLE wireless technology to first wireless communication of the NFC wireless technology by writing the merchant identifier location AES key and or other check in information to an NFC Data Exchange Format NDEF record. In some embodiments that NDEF record may be stored in a database in a non transitory memory mounted to the circuit board .

Referring back to the second set of embodiments illustrated in the bridging engine in the wireless technology bridging system has received the first wireless communications of the NFC wireless technology from the first technology wireless POS device . As discussed above the first wireless communication of the NFC wireless technology may include the NDEF record information discussed above. At block the bridging engine may convert the first wireless communication of the NFC wireless technology to the first wireless communication of the Bluetooth wireless technology by writing the NDEF record information in a Bluetooth format known in the art and into corresponding and identified BLE characteristics. In some embodiments that NDEF record information may be stored in a database in a non transitory memory mounted to the circuit board .

The method then proceeds to block where the bridging engine sends the first wireless communications of the second wireless technology through the second technology wireless controller on the wireless technology bridging system and to the second technology wireless controller in the user device. Thus at block the user device receives the first wireless communications of the second wireless technology through its second technology wireless controller that is included in the user device .

Referring back to the first set of embodiments illustrated in the bridging engine in the wireless technology bridging system has converted the first wireless communications received from the first technology wireless check in beacon from the BLE wireless technology to the NFC wireless technology. As discussed above the first wireless communications of the NFC wireless technology may include an NDEF record with a merchant identifier a location an AES key and or other check in information received from the first technology wireless check in beacon in the first wireless communication of the BLE wireless technology.

In an embodiment of block the bridging engine causes the second technology wireless controller an NFC wireless controller in this embodiment to begin emulating an NFC tag by causing it to be powered at predetermined intervals such that the NDEF record is broadcast at predetermined intervals. For example at block the bridging engine may cause the second technology NFC wireless controller to turn on and off at 1 second intervals in order to broadcast the NDEF record e.g. the first wireless communications of the second NFC wireless technology such that the operation of the second technology NFC wireless controller simulates the movement swiping of the user device near an NFC payment system. At block the user of the user device may turn on unlock or otherwise activate the user device and in response the second technology NFC wireless controller in the user device will receive the first wireless communications of the second NFC wireless technology from the wireless technology bridging system . One of skill in the art in possession of the present disclosure will recognize that the emulation of an NFC tag by the second technology NFC wireless controller may provide benefits when for example the user device does not support 2 way NFC communication. However in embodiments where the user device supports 2 way NFC communication the first wireless communications of the second NFC wireless technology from the second technology NFC wireless controller in the wireless technology bridging system may immediately provide for communication with the user device such that the emulation of the NFC tag discussed above is not necessary and may be omitted.

In an embodiment the first technology wireless check in beacon is a BLE beacon device that may operate in the following manner. The BLE beacon device may operate to periodically or continuously advertise a service with a known Universally Unique Identifier UUID . The bridging engine may operate to monitor for BLE signals using the first technology wireless controller with the UUID. In one example iPhone devices allow UUIDs to be mapped to specific applications to have those applications automatically launched when a registered UUID is discovered while a similar feature a tag dispatch system is available on Android devices to associate NFC tags with a particular application e.g. an NDEF record with a known Uniform Resource Identifier URI that could be dispatched to an appropriately registered application via an ACTION NDEF DISCOVERED Intent . Thus in one example of the embodiment illustrated in the bridging engine causes the NFC wireless controller to emulate a read write NFC tag of a URI type packaged in an NDEF record on the virtual emulated tag known to be associated with an application on the user device. By powering the NFC emulation periodically e.g. one or two seconds powered one or two seconds powered off etc. it will appear to the user device with a native NFC wireless controller that the user device is repeatedly touching an NFC tag. When the user device is unlocked the operating system will cause the application to become active and able to transact with the bridging engine and through a protocol of writing to the emulated NFC tag through the emulation of a read write tag by the bridging engine and NFC wireless controller to send data to the bridging engine and reading data from the emulated NFC tag when it communicates the user device can establish two way communications to the bridging engine and thus through the bridging engine to the BLE beacon device.

In an embodiment the bridging between the first wireless technology controller and the second wireless technology controller may be accomplished by the bridging engine as follows fields that are simple strings e.g. store name merchant ID etc. may be mapped from the characteristic into an appropriately labeled or tagged NDEF record. The RW Request field and the fields marked as Notify e.g. see the chart in para. may be handled differently as they may require action on the user device communication side or the BLE beacon device communication side. The application in the user device may write to the emulated NFC tag to set the Response value and the state of the Notify fields may be monitored.

In some embodiments a special NDEF record may be added to facilitate communications by keeping track of where in the BLE beacon device interchange the communication is and to synchronize with the BLE beacon device the bridging engine and the application in the user device. When the bridging engine causes the emulation of the NFC tag the special NDEF record may flag the payload to indicate state such as waiting for the BLE beacon to respond you have a notification to take care of beacon is waiting for your response beacon is no longer detected etc.

In an embodiment the bridging engine is an active participant in all bridged communications and will know when the application in the user device has made a Request as the bridging engine is a read write tag from the perspective of the application in the user device and that application writes to the particular NDEF record corresponding to a Request . For example the bridging engine actively monitors the NFC record for changes so that it can then pass that information over to the BLE beacon device by copying the Request data from the NDEF record into the RW Request characteristic communicated to the BLE beacon device. At each step the bridging engine may cause the emulated tag to disappear and reappear e.g. by enabling and disabling the transmitted output of the NFC wireless controller such that it appears to the user device that it is being touched to a sequence of unrelated NFC tags that happen to be associated with the same application in the user device that is identified by the known URI mechanism described above. However the application in the user device may be complicit in this process in that the application understands that the tag information that is being received is not independent but rather a sequence of requests and responses in the context of completing a check in transaction a purchase transaction etc. While there are other methods for accomplishing NFC communication with the BLE beacon device beyond tag emulation such as Android Beam and others that will fall within the scope of the present disclosure the emulation of a simple R W tag as discussed above provides a method that is currently supported on most user devices and thus allows for the transaction discussed above with a maximum number of user devices in current use.

Thus blocks and of the method provide for a wireless communication from the merchant using a wireless technology that is not natively supported by the user device to be received by the user device using the wireless technology bridging system

Referring back to the second set of embodiments illustrated in the bridging engine in the wireless technology bridging system has converted the first wireless communications received from the first technology wireless POS device from the NFC wireless technology to the Bluetooth wireless technology. As discussed above the first wireless communication of the Bluetooth wireless technology may include NFC record information received from the first technology wireless POS device in the first wireless communication of the NFC wireless technology. At block the bridging engine causes the second technology wireless controller a Bluetooth wireless controller in this embodiment to send that information e.g. the first wireless communications of the second Bluetooth wireless technology to the user device . Thus a wireless communication from the merchant using a wireless technology that is not natively supported by the user device is received by the user device using the wireless technology bridging system

The method then proceeds to block where the bridging engine receives a second wireless communication of the second wireless technology through the second technology wireless controller on the wireless technology bridging system. Following the receiving of the first wireless communication of the second wireless technology at block the user device may send a second wireless communication of the second wireless technology using the second technology wireless controller in the user device.

In one example using the first set of embodiments illustrated in the first wireless communications of the second wireless technology received by the user device may cause the user device to display a user interface to the user that allows the user to confirm that they would like to check in to the merchant physical location e.g. press OK to confirm you would like to check in to merchant physical location and in response to such confirmation the user device may use its second technology wireless controller to transmit second wireless communications as an NDEF record e.g. via a tag write operation . In another example using the second set of embodiments illustrated in the first wireless communications of the second wireless technology received by the user device may cause the user device to activate and display a user interface to the user that allows the user to begin a payment transaction with the merchant physical location e.g. by including a payment transaction screen that details products prices payment information etc. and in response the user providing selections e.g. of a payment account of a payment instructions etc. the user device may use its second technology wireless controller to transmit second wireless communications.

Referring back to the first set of embodiments illustrated in the bridging engine in the wireless technology bridging system receives the second wireless communication of the second NFC wireless technology from the user device through the second technology NFC wireless controller e.g. using the antenna . The second wireless communication of the NFC wireless technology sent from the user device may include a user identifier a communication that the user has successfully checked in a pre authorized spending limit a time limit for the check in expiration special offers coupons and or other check in response information known in the art. At block the bridging engine receives the second wireless communication of the second NFC wireless technology from the user device .

Referring back to the first set of embodiments illustrated in the bridging engine in the wireless technology bridging system receives the second wireless communication of the second Bluetooth wireless technology from the user device through the second technology Bluetooth wireless controller e.g. using the antenna . The second wireless communication of the Bluetooth wireless technology sent from the user device may include a user identifier a store identifier a register identifier an amount of money to be paid and or other payment response information known in the art. At block the bridging engine receives the second wireless communication of the second Bluetooth wireless technology from the user device .

As is known in the art there are size limits on the amount of data that may be written to a single characteristic so sending a complete NDEF record from an NFC technology wireless controller to a BLE technology wireless controller may require multiple write cycles to push all the data through the bridge system.

The method then proceeds to block where the bridging engine in the wireless technology bridging system converts the second wireless communications of the second wireless technology to second wireless communication of the first wireless technology i.e. the second wireless communications received at block are converted from the second wireless technology to the first wireless technology .

Referring back to the first set of embodiments illustrated in the bridging engine in the wireless technology bridging system has received the second wireless communications of the NFC wireless technology from the user device . As discussed above the second wireless communication of the NFC wireless technology might include check in response information such as a user identifier a communication that the user has successfully checked in a pre authorized spending limit a time limit for the check in expiration special offers coupons and or a variety of other check in response information known in the art. At block the bridging engine may convert the second wireless communications of the NFC wireless technology to second wireless communications of the BLE wireless technology by writing the user identifier a communication that the user has successfully checked in a pre authorized spending limit a time limit for the check in expiration special offers coupons and or other check in response information to a record. In some embodiments that record may be stored in a database in a non transitory memory mounted to the circuit board .

Referring back to the second set of embodiments illustrated in the bridging engine in the wireless technology bridging system has received the second wireless communications of the Bluetooth wireless technology from the user device . As discussed above the second wireless communication of the Bluetooth wireless technology includes payment response information that includes a user identifier a store identifier a register identifier an amount of money to be paid and or a variety of other payment response information known in the art. At block the bridging engine may convert the second wireless communications of the Bluetooth wireless technology to the second wireless communication of the NFC wireless technology by writing the user identifier a store identifier a register identifier an amount of money to be paid and or other payment response information to a record. In some embodiments that record may be stored in a database in a non transitory memory mounted to the circuit board .

The method then proceeds to block where the bridging engine sends the second wireless communications of the first wireless technology through the first technology wireless controller on the wireless technology bridging system and to a first technology wireless controller in the wireless communication system provided by the merchant. Thus at block the wireless communication system provided by the merchant receives the second wireless communications of the first wireless technology through a first technology wireless controller in the wireless communication system.

Referring back to the first set of embodiments illustrated in the bridging engine in the wireless technology bridging system has converted the second wireless communications of the NFC wireless technology received from the user device to the second wireless communications of the first BLE wireless technology. As discussed above the second wireless communication of the first BLE wireless technology may include a record with a user identifier a communication that the user has successfully checked in a pre authorized spending limit a time limit for the check in expiration special offers coupons and or other check in response information received from the user device in the second wireless communication of the second NFC wireless technology. At block the bridging engine causes the first technology wireless controller a BLE wireless controller in this embodiment to broadcast the record. At block the first technology wireless check in beacon receives the second wireless communications of the first BLE wireless technology from the wireless technology bridging system through the first technology BLE wireless controller in the first technology wireless check in beacon . Thus a wireless communication from the user device to the first technology wireless check in beacon in the wireless communication system of the merchant using a wireless technology that is not natively supported by the first technology wireless check in beacon is received by the first technology wireless check in beacon using the wireless technology bridging system

Referring back to the second set of embodiments illustrated in the bridging engine in the wireless technology bridging system has converted the second wireless communications of the Bluetooth wireless technology received from the user device to the second wireless communications of the first NFC wireless technology. As discussed above the second wireless communication of the first NFC wireless technology may include a record with a user identifier a store identifier a register identifier an amount of money to be paid and or other payment response information received from the user device in the second wireless communication of the second Bluetooth wireless technology. At block the bridging engine causes the first technology wireless controller an NFC wireless controller in this embodiment to broadcast the record. At block the first technology wireless POS device receives the second wireless communications of the first NFC wireless technology from the wireless technology bridging system through the first technology NFC wireless controller in the first technology wireless POS device . Thus a wireless communication from the user device to the first technology wireless POS device in the wireless communication system of the merchant using a wireless technology that is not natively supported by the first technology wireless POS device is received by the first technology wireless POS device using the wireless technology bridging system

While a first wireless communication from a wireless communication system provided by a merchant to the user device and a second wireless communication from the user device back to the wireless communication system provided by the merchant have been described one of skill in the art in possession of the present disclosure will recognize that any number of communications back and forth between the wireless communication system and the user device may be enabled using the wireless technology bridging system described herein.

Thus systems and methods for bridging wireless technologies have been described that allow devices that do not natively support wireless communications using a particular wireless technology to communicate with devices that utilize that particular wireless technology. While examples including the bridging of wireless technologies to allow a user device that natively supports NFC wireless technology to communicate with a merchant device that natively supports BLE wireless technology as well as to allow a user device that natively supports Bluetooth wireless technology to communicate with a merchant device that natively supports NFC wireless technology have been provided one of skill in the art in possession of the present disclosure will recognize that any wireless technologies may be bridged using the systems and methods described herein. Furthermore the wireless technology bridging systems described herein may be provided for easy coupling to a user device that utilizes them by for example providing those wireless technology bridging systems in a user device case with an adhesive chassis and or using a variety of other coupling techniques known in the art.

Referring now to an embodiment of a network based system for implementing one or more processes described herein is illustrated. As shown network based system may comprise or implement a plurality of servers and or software components that operate to perform various methodologies in accordance with the described embodiments. Exemplary servers may include for example stand alone and enterprise class servers operating a server OS such as a MICROSOFT OS a UNIX OS a LINUX OS or other suitable server based OS. It can be appreciated that the servers illustrated in may be deployed in other ways and that the operations performed and or the services provided by such servers may be combined or separated for a given implementation and may be performed by a greater number or fewer number of servers. One or more servers may be operated and or maintained by the same or different entities.

The embodiment of the networked system illustrated in include a user device a wireless technology bridging system a merchant device a payment service provider device an account provider device and or a first technology wireless communication device a second technology wireless communication device and up to an nth technology wireless communication device in communication over a network . The user device may be the user devices and or discussed above. The wireless technology bridging system may be the wireless technology bridging systems and or discussed above. The merchant device may be the merchant devices discussed above and may be operated by the merchants discussed above. The payment service provider device may be the payment service provider devices discussed above and may be operated by a payment service provider such as for example PayPal Inc. of San Jose Calif. The account provider device may be the account provider devices discussed above and may be operated by the account providers discussed above such as for example credit card account providers bank account providers savings account providers and a variety of other account providers known in the art. The first technology wireless communication device second technology wireless communication device and up to the nth technology wireless communication device may be the first technology wireless check in beacon the first technology wireless POS device and or any of the other wireless communication devices discussed above.

The user device wireless technology bridging system merchant device payment service provider device account provider device and or different technology wireless communication devices may each include one or more processors memories and other appropriate components for executing instructions such as program code and or data stored on one or more computer readable mediums to implement the various applications data and steps described herein. For example such instructions may be stored in one or more computer readable mediums such as memories or data storage devices internal and or external to various components of the system and or accessible over the network .

The network may be implemented as a single network or a combination of multiple networks. For example in various embodiments the network may include the Internet and or one or more intranets landline networks wireless networks and or other appropriate types of networks.

The user device may be implemented using any appropriate combination of hardware and or software configured for wired and or wireless communication over network . For example in one embodiment the user device may be implemented as a personal computer of a user in communication with the Internet. In other embodiments the user device may be a smart phone personal digital assistant PDA laptop computer tablet computer wearable user device and or other types of computing devices.

The user device may include one or more browser applications which may be used for example to provide a convenient interface to permit the user to browse information available over the network . For example in one embodiment the browser application may be implemented as a web browser configured to view information available over the Internet.

The user device may also include one or more toolbar applications which may be used for example to provide user side processing for performing desired tasks in response to operations selected by the user. In one embodiment the toolbar application may display a user interface in connection with the browser application.

The user device may further include other applications as may be desired in particular embodiments to provide desired features to the user device . In particular the other applications may include a payment application for payments assisted by a payment service provider through the payment service provider device . The other applications may also include security applications for implementing user side security features programmatic user applications for interfacing with appropriate application programming interfaces APIs over the network or other types of applications. Email and or text applications may also be included which allow the user to send and receive emails and or text messages through the network . The user device includes one or more user and or device identifiers which may be implemented for example as operating system registry entries cookies associated with the browser application identifiers associated with hardware of the user device or other appropriate identifiers such as a phone number. In one embodiment the user identifier may be used by the payment service provider device and or account provider device to associate the user with a particular account as further described herein.

The merchant device may be maintained for example by a conventional or on line merchant conventional or digital goods seller individual seller and or application developer offering various products and or services in exchange for payment to be received conventionally or over the network . In this regard the merchant device may include a database identifying available products and or services e.g. collectively referred to as items which may be made available for viewing and purchase by the user.

The merchant device also includes a checkout application which may be configured to facilitate the purchase by the payer of items. The checkout application may be configured to accept payment information from the user through the user device the wireless technology bridging system the payment service provider device the account provider device and or the different technology wireless communication devices over the network .

Referring now to an embodiment of a user device is illustrated. The user device may be the user devices and or . The user device includes a chassis having a display and an input device including the display and a plurality of input buttons . One of skill in the art will recognize that the user device is a portable or mobile phone including a touch screen input device and a plurality of input buttons that allow the functionality discussed above with reference to the method . However a variety of other portable mobile payer devices and or desktop payer devices may be used in the method without departing from the scope of the present disclosure.

Referring now to an embodiment of a user device is illustrated. The user device may be the may be the user devices and or discussed above. The user device includes a frame having a computing chassis that extends from the frame a display that extends from the computing chassis a microphone located on the computing chassis and a camera located on the computing chassis . One of skill in the art will recognize that the user device is a mobile wearable user device such as for example Google Glass available from Google Inc. of Mountain View Calif. that may provide a user with some of the functionality discussed above with reference to the method . However a variety of other mobile wearable user devices may be used in the method without departing from the scope of the present disclosure.

Referring now to an embodiment of a user device is illustrated. The user device may be the user devices and or . The user device includes a chassis having a display and an input device including the display and an input button . One of skill in the art will recognize that the user device is a tablet computer including a touch screen input device and input button that allow the functionality discussed above with reference to the method . However a variety of other tablet devices may be used in the method without departing from the scope of the present disclosure.

Referring now to an embodiment of a computer system suitable for implementing for example the user devices and or the wireless technology bridging systems and or the merchant device the payment service provider device the account provider device and or the different technology wireless communication devices is illustrated. It should be appreciated that other devices utilized by users merchants payment service providers and account providers in the payment system discussed above may be implemented as the computer system in a manner as follows.

In accordance with various embodiments of the present disclosure computer system such as a computer and or a network server includes a bus or other communication mechanism for communicating information which interconnects subsystems and components such as a processing component e.g. processor micro controller digital signal processor DSP etc. a system memory component e.g. RAM a static storage component e.g. ROM a disk drive component e.g. magnetic or optical a network interface component e.g. modem or Ethernet card a display component e.g. CRT or LCD an input component e.g. keyboard keypad or virtual keyboard a cursor control component e.g. mouse pointer or trackball a location determination component e.g. a Global Positioning System GPS device as illustrated a cell tower triangulation device and or a variety of other location determination devices known in the art and or a camera component . In one implementation the disk drive component may comprise a database having one or more disk drive components.

In accordance with embodiments of the present disclosure the computer system performs specific operations by the processor executing one or more sequences of instructions contained in the memory component such as described herein with respect to the user devices and or the wireless technology bridging systems and or the merchant device the payment service provider device the account provider device and or the different technology wireless communication devices . Such instructions may be read into the system memory component from another computer readable medium such as the static storage component or the disk drive component . In other embodiments hard wired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions to implement the present disclosure.

Logic may be encoded in a computer readable medium which may refer to any medium that participates in providing instructions to the processor for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. In one embodiment the computer readable medium is non transitory. In various implementations non volatile media includes optical or magnetic disks such as the disk drive component volatile media includes dynamic memory such as the system memory component and transmission media includes coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics including wires that comprise the bus . In one example transmission media may take the form of acoustic or light waves such as those generated during radio wave and infrared data communications.

Some common forms of computer readable media includes for example floppy disk flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium CD ROM any other optical medium punch cards paper tape any other physical medium with patterns of holes RAM PROM EPROM FLASH EPROM any other memory chip or cartridge carrier wave or any other medium from which a computer is adapted to read. In one embodiment the computer readable media is non transitory.

In various embodiments of the present disclosure execution of instruction sequences to practice the present disclosure may be performed by the computer system . In various other embodiments of the present disclosure a plurality of the computer systems coupled by a communication link to the network e.g. such as a LAN WLAN PTSN and or various other wired or wireless networks including telecommunications mobile and cellular phone networks may perform instruction sequences to practice the present disclosure in coordination with one another.

The computer system may transmit and receive messages data information and instructions including one or more programs i.e. application code through the communication link and the network interface component . The network interface component may include an antenna either separate or integrated to enable transmission and reception via the communication link . Received program code may be executed by processor as received and or stored in disk drive component or some other non volatile storage component for execution.

Referring now to an embodiment of a wireless technology bridging system is illustrated. In an embodiment the wireless technology bridging system may be the wireless technology bridging systems and or . The wireless technology bridging system includes a communication engine that is coupled to the network and to a bridging engine that is coupled to a wireless technology conversion database that may include details for converting wireless communications between different wireless technologies described above. The communication engine may be software or instructions stored on a computer readable medium that allows the wireless technology bridging system to send and receive information over the network . The bridging engine may be software or instructions stored on a computer readable medium that is operable to receive wireless communications of a particular wireless technology from a first device convert those wireless communications to a different wireless technology send those converted wireless communications to a second device and provide any of the other functionality that is discussed above. While the wireless technology conversion database has been illustrated as located in the wireless technology bridging system one of skill in the art will recognize that it may be connected to the bridging engine through the network without departing from the scope of the present disclosure.

Where applicable various embodiments provided by the present disclosure may be implemented using hardware software or combinations of hardware and software. Also where applicable the various hardware components and or software components set forth herein may be combined into composite components comprising software hardware and or both without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. Where applicable the various hardware components and or software components set forth herein may be separated into sub components comprising software hardware or both without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. In addition where applicable it is contemplated that software components may be implemented as hardware components and vice versa.

Software in accordance with the present disclosure such as program code and or data may be stored on one or more computer readable mediums. It is also contemplated that software identified herein may be implemented using one or more general purpose or specific purpose computers and or computer systems networked and or otherwise. Where applicable the ordering of various steps described herein may be changed combined into composite steps and or separated into sub steps to provide features described herein.

The foregoing disclosure is not intended to limit the present disclosure to the precise forms or particular fields of use disclosed. As such it is contemplated that various alternate embodiments and or modifications to the present disclosure whether explicitly described or implied herein are possible in light of the disclosure. For example the above embodiments have focused on merchants and users however a user or consumer can pay or otherwise interact with any type of recipient including charities and individuals. The payment does not have to involve a purchase but may be a loan a charitable contribution a gift etc. Thus merchant as used herein can also include charities individuals and any other entity or person receiving a payment from a user. Having thus described embodiments of the present disclosure persons of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that changes may be made in form and detail without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. Thus the present disclosure is limited only by the claims.

