---

title: Magnetically controllable transducer backing component
abstract: A transducer is provided that converts energy between two forms using active components. The transducer also includes passive components in contact with the active components that perform passive component functions separate from the energy conversion function. The passive components include ferrofluids and have elastic properties that are modifiable by exposure of the passive component to a magnetic field to selectively control the energy conversion function.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09602915&OS=09602915&RS=09602915
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 09602915
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150930
---
This application is a continuation in part of and claims the benefit of prior patent application U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 248 337 filed on Sep. 29 2011 and entitled Transducer with Modifiable Passive Component by the inventors Thomas Howarth and Kim Benjamin.

The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for Governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefore.

Transducers are devices that convert one form of energy into another form of energy. For example a speaker converts electrical energy to sound or sound waves. The reverse would be the conversion of sound into electrical energy which is known as a microphone. In addition to converting energy in a single direction transducers can convert energy in two directions. For example a single device can function as both a speaker and a microphone or given transducer can be switched between operating in either a transmit mode and receive mode.

Generally a transducer includes two types of components active and passive components . These components can be arranged as layers in the transducer. Active layers contribute to the energy conversion of the transducer.

Passive layers compliment the active layers but do not contribute to the energy conversion. For example the passive layer can be a support for an active layer. Therefore the materials and configuration of passive layers are chosen to have qualities that enhance the active layer performance. However the desired qualities of the passive layer are different depending on whether the transducer is being used in a transmit mode or a receive mode. Consequently current passive layers only compliment an active layer in a single mode of operation e.g. either a transmit mode or a receive mode .

A transducer is therefore desired that includes passive components or passive layers that complement the active components of active layers of the transducer and therefore enhance the overall performance of the transducer in two modes of operation e.g. the transmit mode to receive mode .

Exemplary embodiments of transducers in accordance with the present invention contain passive components constructed from materials that can be selectively configured to compliment the active components of the transducer in two directions of energy conversion.

In one embodiment the materials of the passive components change their elastic properties when exposed to an applied magnetic field. These materials include magnetorheological materials and magnetoviscoelastic materials which respectively display a large variation in viscosity and elastic modulus when exposed to a magnetic field.

In another embodiment the material of the passive material is ferrofluids. The difference between ferrofluids and MR fluids is the size of the particles. The particles in a ferrofluid primarily consist of nanoparticles which are suspended by Brownian motion and generally will not settle under normal conditions. Brownian motion is the random drifting of particles suspended in a fluid a liquid or a gas or the mathematical model used to describe such random movements often called a particle theory .

In accordance with one exemplary embodiment the present invention is directed to a transducer having an energy conversion function that includes a transmit mode and a receive mode. The transducer includes a passive component having a function that is separate from the energy conversion function of the transducer and an elastic property modifiable by exposure to a magnetic field to selectively compliment the energy conversion function in the transmit mode or the receive mode. Exposure of the passive component to the magnetic field yields a notable change in the elastic property. This elastic property includes elastic modulus and viscosity.

In one embodiment the passive component is a solid polymer having a plurality of ferrous particles distributed in the solid polymer. In another embodiment this solid polymer is a magnetoviscoelastic polymer. The ferrous particles have a first organized alignment in the solid polymer and a second disorganized alignment in the solid polymer upon exposure to the magnetic field. The particles of the ferro fluids are in nanoscale a diameter of ten nanometers or less thereby allowing the particles stay suspended in solution longer than existing arrangements.

In yet another embodiment the passive component is a liquid polymer having a plurality of ferrous particles distributed in the liquid polymer. In one embodiment this liquid polymer is a magnetorheological polymer. The ferrous particles in the liquid polymer have a first disorganized alignment and a second organized alignment upon exposure to the magnetic field. Suitable ferrous particles for use in the solid or liquid polymer include iron iron oxide iron cobalt iron nickel iron silicon and iron nitride.

In another exemplary embodiment the present invention is directed to a transducer having an active component with an active component function that is at least a portion of an energy conversion function of the transducer. The transducer also includes a passive component in communication with the active component.

This passive component has a function that is separate from the energy conversion function of the transducer. The passive component function affects the active component function thru magnetism based on volume material and temperature. In addition the passive component has an elastic property that is modifiable by exposure to a magnetic field. In one embodiment exposure of the passive component to the magnetic field yields up to approximately a forty change percent in the elastic property. This elastic property is an elastic modulus or viscosity.

The passive component can include a solid magnetorheological fluid polymer or a magnetoviscoelastic solid polymer. In addition the passive component includes a plurality of ferrous particles. These ferrous particles include iron iron oxide iron cobalt iron nickel iron silicon and iron nitride.

In yet another embodiment the ferrous particles in the passive layer have a disorganized alignment and an organized alignment. The ferrous particles switch between the disorganized alignment and the organized alignment upon exposure to the magnetic field thereby modifying the elastic property of the passive layer. A ferro fluid can perform this action.

The transducer can include a plurality of active components arranged as a plurality of active component layers and a plurality of passive components arranged as a plurality of passive component layers. Each passive component layer is in communication with at least one of the active component layers to affect the active component function.

Exemplary embodiments of the present invention are also directed to a method for using a transducer for energy conversion. In the method an active component of the transducer transfers energy between a first form or energy and a second form of energy. A passive component of the transducer that is in communication with the active component is used to compliment the function of the active component when transferring the energy between the first form of energy and the second form of energy. A magnetic field is applied to the passive component to change an elastic property of the passive component. The effect of the passive component on the transfer of energy by the active component between the first form of energy and the second form of energy is dependent upon the elastic property of the passive component.

Exemplary embodiments of systems and methods in accordance with the present invention provide for the transfer or conversion of energy between a first form of energy and a second form of energy using a transducer having an energy conversion function. This transfer of energy includes a transfer from the first form of energy to the second form of energy and from the second from of energy to the first form of energy. The direction of transfer is reversible and selectable by the user of the transducer.

Suitable energy conversion functions include but are not limited to thermal energy chemical energy electrical energy radiant energy nuclear energy magnetic energy elastic energy sound energy mechanical energy and luminous energy. In one embodiment the first form of energy is sound or sound waves and the second form of energy is electrical energy. The transducer has an energy conversion function with a transmit mode that converts the electrical energy to sound transmitting the sound thereby to waves through the air. The transducer also has a receive mode that receives sound waves from the air and converts the sound to electrical energy.

Suitable types of transducers include but are not limited to electromagnetic transducers such as antennae cathode ray tubes fluorescent lamps light bulbs magnetic cartridges photo detectors photo resistors tape heads and Hall effect sensors electrochemical transducers such as pH probes electro galvanic fuel cells and hydrogen sensors electromechanical transducers such as electro active polymers galvanometers microelectromechanical systems rotary motors linear motors vibration powered generators potentiometers load cells accelerometers strain gauges string potentiometers air flow sensors and tactile sensors electro acoustic transducers such as loudspeakers earphones microphones tactile transducers piezoelectric crystals geophones gramophone pickups hydrophones and sonar transponders photoelectric transducers such as laser diodes light emitting diodes photodiodes photo resistors phototransistors and photomultiplier tubes electrostatic transducers thermoelectric transducers such as resistance temperature detectors thermocouples Peltier coolers and thermistors and radioacoustic transducers such as Geiger M ller tubes and radio receivers.

Referring to an exemplary embodiment of a transducer in accordance with the present invention is illustrated. In the figure the transducer includes at least one and preferably a plurality of active components . The active components each contribute to an active component function or energy conversion functionality of the transducer . Suitable active components include but are not limited to transistors diodes piezoelectric materials generators photovoltaic cells and thermocouples.

The transducer also includes at least one and preferably a plurality of passive components positioned within the transducer. Each passive component is in communication with at least one of the active components . This communication includes but is not limited to physical contact electrical contact and fluid communication. As illustrated the active components and passive components are positioned as alternating active layers and passive layers. However the transducers in accordance with the present invention are not limited to arrangements of layers of active components and passive components. In addition the layers do not all have to alternate and two active layers or two passive layers can be adjacent layers in the transducer .

Each passive component is separate from and is not involved in the energy conversion functionality of the transducer . Instead each passive component contributes a passive component function to the transducer . These passive component functions including spacing insulation filtering polarizing focusing supporting heating cooling dampening and weighting among others. Therefore the passive component function of a given passive component is selected to affect and to compliment the active component function of the active component to enhance the overall energy transfer functionality of the transducer . Suitable passive components include but are not limited to lenses strain gauges inductors conductors insulators resistors and transformers. The ability of the passive components to compliment the active functions of the active components depends upon the mode of operation of the transducer i.e. the direction of energy transfer and the physical properties of the passive components .

For example a more flexible passive component is preferable for one mode of operation and a more rigid passive component is preferable for the opposite mode of operation. Therefore the passive components of the present invention are configured to change their physical properties selectively controllable and reversibly. These physical properties are changed depending on the mode of operation or direction of energy transfer of the transducer .

Suitable physical properties of the passive components that can be modified are the elastic properties of the passive component. These elastic properties include but are not limited to yield strength stress strain elastic modulus and viscosity. Preferably the elastic property to be modified is elastic modulus or viscosity.

The transducer includes an activating mechanism based on material and volume fraction to selectively control or to selectively modify the elastic properties of the passive components . In addition the passive components are constructed from materials that respond to the mechanism used to control the elastic properties of the passive component.

The passive components can be constructed from materials having elastic properties that are modifiable by exposure to a magnetic field. Alternatively a magnetic field can be applied to the passive components to modify the elastic properties of the passive components to selectively compliment the energy conversion function of the transducer in either the transmit mode or the receive mode.

In another embodiment the material of the passive material is ferrofluids. The difference between ferrofluids and MR fluids is the size of the particles. The particles in a ferrofluid primarily consist of nanoparticles which are suspended by Brownian motion and generally will not settle under normal conditions. Brownian motion is the random drifting of particles suspended in a fluid a liquid or a gas or the mathematical model used to describe such random movements often called a particle theory .

As illustrated a given passive layer is configured as a support layer in contact with an active layer in the transducer. The elastic properties of the passive support layer will affect the flexibility of the active layer to which it is in contact. As shown in the passive support layer is surrounded by a coil of wire that is used to generate a magnetic field that is imparted to the central material that is changeable to an elastic property. Suitable materials for the coil of wire include copper and aluminum. A pair of electric contacts are used in contact with the coil of wire in order to supply the required current to generate the magnetic field. Although illustrated as a coil of wire incorporated into the transducers or into the passive layer the magnetic field can be generated from any suitable source including sources external to the transducer.

Suitable materials that change their elastic property upon exposure to a magnetic field include but are not limited to magnetorheological polymers and magnetoviscoelastic polymers. These materials include a plurality of ferrous particles . These ferrous materials are sensitive to the applied magnetic field. Suitable ferrous particles include but are not limited to iron iron oxide iron cobalt iron nickel iron silicon and iron nitride.

Although illustrated as rectangular particles the particles are not limited to rectangular particles but can be particles having any suitable shape to include spherical particles as well randomly shaped particles and particles having other geometric shapes. Preferably the material for the passive layer changes its elastic property by up to approximately forty percent when exposed to the magnetic field the range being dependent on volume and magnetic field.

Selective application of the magnetic field to the material of the passive layer for example by turning on and off the current through the coil of wire causes the ferrous particles to move between an organized state as illustrated in and a disorganized state as illustrated in . Changing the relative organization of the ferrous particles changes an elastic property of the material.

The passive component material can be a magnetorheological liquid polymer containing ferrous particles that are initially in a disorganized state is shown in . The applied magnetic field causes the particles to align as in changing the viscosity of the magnetorheological liquid polymer containing passive layer.

Referring to an exemplary embodiment of a transducer in accordance with the present invention is illustrated. The transducer includes a plurality of alternating active layers and passive layers . The active layers and passive layers are configured and constructed of materials as discussed herein. The active and passive layers are adhesively bonded together. As shown in the adhesively bonded layers are encapsulated in a mountable housing . Electrical connections not shown to the active layers are passed from the encapsulated region to the other side of a water proof bulkhead See .

As described above a coil of wire associated with one or more of the passive layers induce a magnetic field in the associated passive layers. When the passive layer is a magnetoviscoelastic solid polymer the ferrous particles in its quiescent state remain in their organized alignment yielding one extreme of the elastic modulus of the passive layer. When the coil of wire is energized and the magnetic field is present the organized of columnar nature of the ferrous particles is destroyed yielding a disorganized ferrous particle structure and an opposite extreme for the elastic modulus.

Therefore the passive layer is moved between these organized and disorganized states to present the appropriate backing stiffness to an active layer in either one of two directions of energy transfer e.g. transmit or receive . Switching the magnetic field on and off or switching the particle alignment between organized and disorganized can be step wise or time varying depending on the desired stiffness versus time function.

Exemplary embodiments in accordance with the present invention are also directed to a method for converting energy. In accordance with this method an active component function is performed using an active component of a transducer. The active component function is at least a portion of an energy conversion function of the transducer. Passive components of the transducer are used to perform a passive component function that is separate from the energy conversion function of the transducer. However this passive component function affects the active component function thereby enhancing the overall function of the transducer. In order to benefit the active component function of the active components in two directions of energy transfer the elastic properties of the passive components are modified preferably by exposing the passive components to a magnetic field.

It will be understood that many additional changes in details materials steps and arrangements of parts which have been described herein and illustrated in order to explain the nature of the invention may be made by those skilled in the art within the principle and scope of the invention as expressed in the appended claims.

Finally any numerical parameters set forth in the specification and attached claims are approximations for example by using the term about that may vary depending upon the desired properties sought to be obtained by the present invention. At the very least and not as an attempt to limit the application of the doctrine of equivalents to the scope of the claims each numerical parameter should at least be construed in light of the number of significant digits and by applying ordinary rounding.

