---

title: Mediator device monitoring and controlling access to electronic content
abstract: Methods, systems and apparatuses for a mediator controlling access to an electronic content, are disclosed. One method includes receiving, by a mediator device of a mediator, a second share SKfrom an owner device, wherein a first share SKis provided to a member device of a member of a group by the owner device. Further, the mediator receives a request from the member for mediation, including the mediator receiving a dispatch of the header of the encrypted electronic content. Further, the mediator receives a request for mediation, including the mediator receiving a dispatch of the header of the encrypted electronic content from the member. Further, the mediator determines whether the member is eligible to decrypt the electronic content, if eligible, the mediator responding to the request for mediation with a member accessible header, wherein the member accessible header includes the header after application of SK.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09209972&OS=09209972&RS=09209972
owner: PivotCloud, Inc.
number: 09209972
owner_city: Sunnyvale
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150131
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 171 682 filed Feb. 3 2014 and entitled Mediator Monitoring and Controlling Access to Electronic Content which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 716 351 filed Dec. 17 2012 and entitled Monitoring and Controlling Access to Electronic Content which is a continuation in part CIP of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 613 080 filed Sep. 13 2012 and entitled Providing Trustworthy Workflow Across Trust Boundaries which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 598 071 filed Feb. 13 2012 and entitled High Scale and Distributed Business and Consumer Networks all of which are incorporated herein by reference.

The described embodiments relate generally to electronic communication through cloud networks. More particularly the described embodiments relate to methods systems and apparatuses for a mediator monitoring and controlling access to electronic content.

A trust boundary in an electronic network is defined as a region within which all computer systems their operations and the data are trusted. Typically a trust boundary is protected by computer security hardware and software such as firewalls Virtual Private Networks VPNs intrusion detection and prevention systems data leakage protections antivirus programs etc. For example for an organization a trust boundary may include an entire data center infrastructure including computers connected via VPNs. For an individual a laptop computer could be her trust boundary.

Various mechanisms exist today to facilitate secure communications between trust boundaries. SSL TLS and IPSec are two examples. These mechanisms are intrinsically point to point thus for many to many secure information sharing and collaboration it will require a worst case N squared messy cross bar connectivity for all N trust boundaries where every party needs to be able to field electronic communications from every other party. This can become costly and complex.

On the other hand Web based technologies and now cloud computing make information sharing and collaboration increasingly cheaper and easier. In essence this is a central intermediary based hub spoke communication model. When it comes to secure sharing this model requires that the central intermediary to be a trusted escrow that must be trusted by all parties across all trust boundaries in the network and that no one in the network will surreptitiously game the system for their own profit.

Such a blind trust hub spoke model tends to fail due to a range of challenges that include breaches of hub s electronic perimeters insider attacks coercion from governments and organized crimes and other threats to the hub. All indications are that any model that involves conventional electronic security and is based on a need to trust any central individual or organization to follow the rules is deeply flawed. This is demonstrated by the fact that even with improvements in technologies for monitoring and protection the rate of successful intrusions and internal malfeasance is actually rising rapidly.

In present day enterprises the custodian typically the hub the infrastructure service operator provider in physical possession of the sensitive data and the curator typically some spoke the IT organization that owes and authorizes access to this data are within the same organization and most likely within the same legal and compliance domain. Authentication is typically implemented through techniques such as Kerberos and Open ID authorization is typically through infrastructure such as AD and Security Groups access control is enforced by the various data containers that include databases document management systems and networked file systems. Organizations also leverage PKI and X.509v3 for identity through Smart Cards SAML WS Trust WS Federation for single sign on and federation of authorization. Various technologies and solutions exist for the organization to implement its own Authentication and Authorization and to federate beyond that organization with business partners and other service providers or service consumers.

When IT infrastructures such as data storage or containers are moved to a hosting service in the cloud the role of the custodian and curator is separated where the cloud service provider that is hosting the data is now the custodian of that data while the curatorship continues to remain in the hands of functionaries within that organization. For legal compliance and other business IP protection reasons organizations can t afford the blind trust on the cloud service providers thus are disinclined to adopt these services or they demand unlimited liability protection.

In order to solve this problem the cloud needs to be constrained in function to be only a policy enforcement service that is implementing the exact policy specified by the customer organization and its curator functionary. Furthermore this new cloud architecture needs to seamlessly integrate without any significant requirement to modify the existing IT infrastructure or the existing business process.

Typically for an individual business or other organization that is regulated it is an option for them to outsource their IT but it is not an option for them to outsource their risk. In the case of negligence or maleficence on the part of a service provider hub the risks to the individual or organization could be significant. As a consequence organizations and businesses require significant liability protection from the service provider. This would transfer the risk to the hub which could exacerbate that organization s own risk since it could be subject to negligence or maleficence on the part of their own employees or coercion from governments or intrusions by hackers.

In short there is no solution existing today that can allow organizations and individuals curators to extend the existing IT infrastructures along with the business processes such as Governance Risk Management and Compliance GRC in short to the cloud service providers custodians across the trust boundaries while a the data privacy and confidentiality are ensured custodians can never see the sensitive data nor the policies about how the data can be accessed b the visibility into and the control over access to or modification of the data are fully retained by the curators and c multiple curators across trust boundaries can collaborate and share the sensitive data through the custodians.

There is a need for systems methods and apparatuses that address the above listed requirements in cloud computing and provide a trustworthy workflow across trust boundaries between parties.

A trustworthy workflow is defined as a cryptography based mechanism that enables all parties to securely communicate across trust boundaries through the central intermediary the hub without the hub ever being able to access the data nor the data access policies. All end points in such a workflow can count on the same degree of trustworthiness of a point to point secure communications supported by protocols such as SSL TSL and IPSec as described before.

In addition for a geo distributed solution there are technical geo political or legal reasons why a single trustworthy hub would not be sufficient. The technical reasons might include performance the geo political reasons might include governments that desire to suppress collaboration or commerce for sovereign reasons the legal reasons might include the inefficiency of settlement reconciliation litigation and arbitrage across distinct legal boundaries. For that reason it is necessary to have a federation of trustworthy hubs in disparate regions that can collaborate to provide the same trustworthiness but with a greater degree of resilience lower latencies and higher scale.

It is desirable to have methods systems and apparatuses for monitoring and controlling access to an electronic content.

An embodiment includes a method of a mediator monitoring and controlling access to an electronic content. The method includes receiving by a mediator device of a mediator a second share SKfrom an owner device wherein a first share SKis provided to a member device of a member of a group by the owner device wherein the group is created by the owner device generating a group public key PKand a group secret key SK wherein the member is added by the owner device to the group by generating the first share SKfrom the group secret key SKand a public key of the member and the second share SKfrom the group secret key SKand a public key of the mediator wherein a user publishes an electronic content for the group comprising the user encrypting the electronic content to the group public key PK wherein the electronic content includes a header and a payload and wherein the member obtains the encrypted electronic content. The method further includes the mediator receiving a request from the member for mediation comprising the mediator receiving a dispatch of the header of the encrypted electronic content the mediator receiving a request by the member for mediation comprising the mediator receiving a dispatch of the header of the encrypted electronic content from the member.

Other aspects and advantages of the described embodiments will become apparent from the following detailed description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings illustrating by way of example the principles of the described embodiments.

The described embodiments include methods systems and apparatuses for providing for monitoring and control of access to an electronic content.

At least one benefit of the described embodiments includes the ability for individuals and organizations to leverage the benefits of clouds and other networks which include lower costs higher scale and geo distribution in order to maximize their own efficiencies that might include lower capital and operational expenses.

There exist several collaboration and commerce networks that can benefit from the lower costs scale and geo distribution of clouds. These networks include supply and demand chains and international trade. In the present day there is a precise support system that includes banks escrow parties shipping corporations and mediation. However these do not scale for electronic commerce when it is necessary for a human to be a mandatory intermediary for any typical transaction as opposed to a human needing to get involved in the case of an error or a conflict .

Due to the replacement of that the previously described messy crossbar with a trustworthy hub it is now easier for diverse technologies and solutions to integrate and inter operate since each spoke needs to perform a one time integration with the trustworthy hub. In addition it is possible for the hub to present a variety of interfaces to the spokes and then perform the routing and inter operation within the hub. In deployment scenarios with multiple hubs each hub might implement a specific class of technologies.

Whereas present day distributed architectures are stilted due to the need to protect data through the containers that they reside in the enablement of visibility and control facilitates the caching of electronic content closer to the expected consumer which optimizes the data path whereas the control path for key access and for metering is easier to optimize for cloud scale. This provides the underpinning for new architectures that enable higher scale and greater efficiency noting that the current corporate and Internet traffic is dominated by video and file sharing.

Further the member and the mediator each publish their own public keys and maintain corresponding secret keys as a secret. The member and the mediator can each secure their secret key by protecting the secret key through encryption before storing or transmitting the secret key to a custodian. That key encryption key can be derived from a pass phrase that only the principal originator of the secret key knows.

Once the group has been formed the owner adds members such as member by generating a first share SKfrom the group secret key SKand a public key of a member and a second share SKfrom the group secret key SKand a public key of a mediator. The owner adds the member to the group by obtaining the member s public key from the mediator or some other public source .

Once the group has been formed and the owner has published the group public key PK a publisher can encrypt a document more generally electronic content using the group public key PK. For an embodiment the user retrieves the group public key PKfrom a custodian owner wherein the custodian is operating in the directory role. For an embodiment the document is encrypted according to a key K and the key K is encrypted according to the group public key PK. For an embodiment the document includes a payload and a header.

The member can obtain the encrypted document in various ways. The publisher may send the encrypted document to the member the member may retrieve the encrypted document or there may be an intermediary such as Drop Box between the publisher and the member .

The member receives the document but cannot directly decrypt the document because the member does not have access to the group secret key SK. However at least some embodiments allow the member to decrypt the document through the aid of the mediator . More specifically for an embodiment the member request mediation by the mediator by submitting the header of the document to the mediator . If the electronic content is small the header may actually be the payload of the electronic content. More typically the payload is large and the header only includes a cryptographic secret that can be used to unlock the payload.

In another embodiment a user server publishes the actual payload to a location that is resilient against inappropriate access or modification or because the payload is too voluminous for transmission in the data path and publishing a capability for gaining access in lieu of the payload and the member server consequently requiring mediation in order to access that capability for gaining access to the payload.

In certain situations where there is a pre defined data path such as document sharing through a solution such as Dropbox the encrypted document and the associated metadata is best packaged as a single unit that travels together. The original document that is encrypted is termed the payload and the header contains the cryptographic material and any associated document classifications and or access policies.

In other situations where the digital content is too unwieldy to share through a solution such as Dropbox either due to the size or to the streaming nature of access it may be better to replace the payload with an address. In this situation the header contains a capability that constitutes both a location that is otherwise difficult to guess along with the cryptographic material for an authorized party to perform cryptographic operations such as verification and decryption. In this case there might be other benefits such as tamper prevention since lack of access to that capability would typically preclude accidental or malicious defacement or deletion where defacement renders that original content inaccessible.

In other situations the payload itself might be very small perhaps representing an offer or a bid in a marketplace scenario or some other secret that needs to be securely stored or shared. In this case it might be optimal to embed this secret directly within the header. After a successful mediation operation the secret becomes directly accessible to the authorized recipient such as member without the subsequent need to unlock any payload.

Once the mediator receives the request for mediation from the member the mediator checks to confirm that the member is eligible for decryption of the document. The eligibility of the member can be determined in one or more ways.

One mechanism for determining member eligibility is for the mediator to maintain a white list or a black list of eligible members. Typically the owner or the delegate or auditor updates this list. In this case the member is eligible if they are on the white list or if they are not on the black list or both.

Another mechanism for determining member eligibility is for the mediator to maintain a matrix of authorization where one dimension of the matrix is the document classification while the other dimension is the access requirements. The first might be transferred securely and privately in some cases from the publisher to the mediator through the header. The second might specify individuals through a white or black list or it might specify specific roles that a requestor needs to be member of which is sometimes described as RBAC or Role Based Access Control. The second might also specify a claim that the member needs to provide to prove they have legitimate access to that document. This might be either an ancillary mechanism that is used in addition to group membership usually signs this claim or it might be in lieu of group membership where any member with the right claim will have access to that document . Some authority that the Mediator knows of can issue such a claim.

There are other mechanisms for the mediator to determine eligibility of a member which involve integration with existing enterprise and federation infrastructures. For example in a policy based network the mediator may serve as an enforcement point or Policy Enforcement Point that needs to check with one or more Policy Decision Points before it executes the mediation.

For an embodiment the mediator logs the requests by the member eligibility determinations and mediator responses. For an embodiment the logging includes the mediator storing the requests by the member eligibility determinations and mediator responses. Each of these can be logged at a server wherein the server is accessible by the owner and others. For an embodiment the logging includes the mediator dispatching alerts of the requests by the member eligibility determinations and mediator responses to the owner and others.

Due to the trustworthy nature of the hub it is an enabler of fine grain lifecycle management of electronic content perhaps in cases where it might be a business record and this facilitates the enforcement of retention disposition hold and other events of data that is owned by an individual or organization but is outside their region of control.

Based on the configuration the hub may either log access requests either ones that failed due to lack of eligibility or both . These logs may be made available to just the parties authorized by the group owner or their delegate or auditor. In other cases the logs may be delivered in the form of alerts to the group owner or their delegate or auditor in cases where there is a need for rapid notification.

If the mediator determines that the member is eligible the mediator responds to the request for mediation with a member accessible header wherein the member accessible header includes the header after application of SK.

Typically the logs and alerts from the hub are integrated with enterprise infrastructure that might range from Syslogd to specialized monitoring and discovery solutions or possibly to high scale log processing systems that might post process these logs for purposes that might include filtering classification pattern or anomaly detection. In many cases a cloud or similar network can provide an end to end service that would significantly reduce any individual or organization s capital and operational expenses.

For an embodiment the member obtains a secret based on SKand the member accessible header. Further the member decrypts the payload of the electronic content using the secret. Through the controlled document electronic content access of the described embodiments the member is able to decrypt the document only through the participation and control of the mediator and the owner .

As shown the mediator is at least partially controlled by a cloud connect service CCS the member and the publisher are at least partially controlled by a client connect agent CCA and the owner is at least partially controlled by a service connect agent SCA . The owner operates within a trusted zone and the mediator operates within a partially trusted zone.

In some embodiments the CCS centralizes roles that include Directory Key Store Mediator Log Storage and Delivery and others. In other embodiments a separate party that includes the owner operator or their organization or delegate hosts the Mediator.

It is to be understood that the roles of each of the parties owner member mediator publisher can be changed and or the parties can play multiple roles. That is for example the member can additionally play the role of owner. In some embodiments the group owner represents more than one individual whereby access to the group secret key itself is mediated in a similar operation.

Similar to the group formation previously described the owner also playing the role of member as previously described publishes a group public key PK and generating and maintaining a group secret key SKas a secret. The owner can store the group secret key SK for example in its own data center.

The subordinate member and a subordinate mediator each publish their own public keys and maintain corresponding secret keys as a secret. The subordinate member and the subordinate mediator can each secure their secret key by protecting the secret key through encryption before storing or transmitting the secret key to a custodian. That key encryption key can be derived from a pass phrase that only the principal originator of the secret key knows.

Once the group has been formed the owner adds members such as sub ordinate member by generating a first share SKfrom the group secret key SKand a public key of the sub ordinate member and a second share SKfrom the group secret key SKand a public key of a sub ordinate mediator . The owner adds the sub ordinate member to the group by obtaining the sub ordinate member s public from the sub ordinate mediator or some other public source .

Once the group has been formed and the owner has published the group public key PK the publisher note that this can be an entirely different publisher than previously described can encrypt a document more generally electronic content using the group public key PK. For an embodiment the sub ordinate user retrieves the group public key PKfrom the owner wherein the owner is operating in the directory role. For an embodiment the document is encrypted according to a key K and the key K is encrypted according to the group public key P. For an embodiment the document includes a payload and a header.

The subordinate member can obtain the encrypted document in various ways. The publisher may send the encrypted document to the subordinate member the subordinate member may retrieve the encrypted document or there may be an intermediary such as drop box between the publisher and the subordinate member .

The subordinate sub ordinate member receives the document but cannot directly decrypt the document because the sub ordinate member does not have access to the group secret key SK. However at least some embodiments allow the sub ordinate member to decrypt the document through the aid of the sub ordinate mediator . More specifically for an embodiment the sub ordinate member request mediation by the sub ordinate mediator by submitting the header of the document to the sub ordinate mediator . If the electronic content is small the header may actually be the payload of the electronic content. More typically the payload is large and the header only includes a cryptographic secret that can be used to unlock the payload.

Once the sub ordinate mediator receives the request for mediation from the sub ordinate member the sub ordinate mediator checks to confirm that the sub ordinate member is eligible for decryption of the document. The eligibility of the sub ordinate member can be determined in one more ways.

For an embodiment the sub ordinate mediator logs the requests by the member eligibility determinations and mediator responses. For an embodiment the logging includes the sub ordinate mediator storing the requests by the member eligibility determinations and mediator responses. Each of these can be logged at a server wherein the server is accessible by the owner and others. For an embodiment the logging includes the mediator dispatching alerts of the requests by the member eligibility determinations and mediator responses to the owner and others.

If the sub ordinate mediator determines that the sub ordinate member is eligible the sub ordinate mediator responds to the request for mediation with a member accessible header wherein the member accessible header includes the header after application of SK.

For an embodiment the sub ordinate member obtains a secret based on SKand the member accessible header. Further the sub ordinate member decrypts the payload of the electronic content using the secret. Through the controlled document electronic content access of the described embodiments the sub ordinate member is able to decrypt the document only through the participation and control of the mediator and the owner .

For at least some embodiments there are multiple mediators for either business reasons such as separation of responsibilities or for compliance reasons where certain categories of mediation are performed by a compliant entity or for federal or government reasons where some of the mediation is deemed to be more sensitive. In addition to partitioning of mediators in this manner it might be desired to have a level of redundancy and scale by duplicating the functionality of a mediator across multiple instances.

The publish can maintain some control by embedding for example an opaque watermark in the header and logging at for example a logging server by a mediator the header when received by the mediator from the member thereby allowing the publisher to track the electronic content. For at least some embodiments the watermark is selectively translucent to other parties perhaps log processing services that might be able to detect patterns and anomalies but in a manner that minimizes compromise of sensitive content. As shown in the header may include a key locator that is necessary for the intended recipient to obtain access to the sensitive payload. For at least some embodiments the received document is a composite of a header and a payload and the secret is the decryption key that is made available subsequent to mediation. In addition for at least some embodiments the secret might is augmented with a verification key for ensuring that the payload has not been tampered with in transit or storage. In cases where this payload is absent perhaps for reasons of efficiency or enhanced security the secret might also consist of a locator such as a Uniform Resource Identifier along with a decryption key. The intended recipient only knows of the real location of the payload that is a candidate for decryption after a successful mediation.

Another embodiment includes the publisher inserting an electronic content specific policy in the header as shown in as a policy for mediator wherein only the mediator can decrypt the policy and wherein the electronic content specific policy provides additional instructions regarding eligibility of the member. For an embodiment the policy directs the mediator to request mediation from a higher mediator authority. In at least some embodiments the policy is not visible to the members but is made available to the mediator . In other embodiments the policy that is visible to the mediator consists of subsequent instructions such as the need to consult with a policy decision point where those instructions to that policy decision point may not necessarily be visible to the mediator .

For an embodiment the header optionally contains visible information for intermediaries to perform cryptographic operations that might include checking for integrity of the encrypted payload or establishing non repudiation or data provenance. For an embodiment the member accessible header optionally contains information for performing cryptographic operations that might include checking for integrity of the encrypted or decrypted payload or establishing non repudiation or data provenance.

Typically in a scenario that involves collaboration or commerce there are diverse perhaps mutually distrustful participants that need to manage their own access policies that might include management of white or black lists and perhaps ratings of buyers sellers or other participants. These scenarios are federated and can consist of more than one owners might either have exclusive control over their respective sets of documents that they are the resource providers of or it may be the case that they may have to co operate through some policy to be able to update or modify the mediation policy.

The described embodiments enable the high scale enablement of existing networks such as International Trade where multiple mediators as described below might represent the banks that represent buyers and sellers and the eligibility for access to electronic goods or to the payment is gated by the need for a successful mediation by the appropriate mediator which is likely to have up to date information about the transaction in question.

There are other federation scenarios where the participants may not be willing or able to agree upon a single mediator. This might be for global commerce where the physical location of a mediator might make it subject to disruption or coercion by local powers. In such a situation at least some embodiment include more than one mediator that is isolated within distinct physical or electronic boundaries that limits physical or electronic access and the successful mediation requires all mediators to execute a mediation operation. It is possible to have more expressive circuits such as thresholds where perhaps a specified majority of mediators needs to execute their part in the mediation before the intended recipient gets access to the payload.

As previously described an embodiment includes the mediator logging requests by the member eligibility determinations and mediator responses. Specifically for an embodiment the logging includes the mediator storing the requests by the member eligibility determinations and mediator responses at a server wherein the server is accessible by the owner and others. For another embodiment the logging includes the mediator dispatching alerts of the requests by the member eligibility determinations and mediator responses to the owner and others.

As previously described for an embodiment determining whether the member is eligible includes the mediator being notified by the owner prior to the mediation request. For another embodiment determining whether the member is eligible comprises the mediator being notified by the owner or another authority prior to the mediation request that the member s public key in invalid.

As previously described for an embodiment if the payload is greater than a threshold in size the header includes a secret needed to decrypt the payload. If the payload is less than the threshold in size the header is the payload.

As previously described an embodiment further includes the member acting in an owner capacity and creating a subordinate group. For an embodiment this includes creating by the member a subordinate group comprising generating a subordinate group public key PKand a subordinate group secret key SK adding by the member a subordinate member to the subordinate group including generating a first share SKfrom the subordinate group secret key SKand a public key of a subordinate member and a second share SKfrom the subordinate group secret key SKand a public key of a subordinate mediator and providing the member the first share SKto a subordinate member server of the subordinate member and the second shares SKto a subordinate mediator server of the subordinate mediator.

As previously described an embodiment includes adding by the owner server a second member to the group comprising generating a first share SKfrom the group secret key SKand a public key of the second member and a second share SK from the group secret key SKand the public key of the mediator and providing by the owner server the first share SK to a second member server of the second member and the second share SK to the mediator server of the mediator wherein the second share SKis different than the second share SK .

As previously described an embodiment further includes embedding by the publisher an opaque watermark in the header and logging by the mediator the header when received by the mediator from the member thereby allowing the publisher to track the electronic content.

As previously described an embodiment further includes inserting by the publisher an electronic content specific policy in the header wherein only the mediator can decrypt the policy and wherein the electronic content specific policy provides additional instructions regarding eligibility of the member. For an embodiment the policy directs the mediator to request mediation from a higher mediator authority.

As shown this embodiment includes at least the following modules an Administrative Module a Service Enrollment Module a Data Transport Module a Key Store and Directory Module a Crypto Engine Module and a CCS Interface Module .

For an embodiment the Administrative Module performs various configuration and administrative tasks to configure the local CCA to manage users and groups within the CCA control to interface with human users through a command line interface CLI or a UI interface UI to interface with other programs through an application programming interface API to update CCA software from the connected CCS and to send event logs to CCS via CCS Interface Module .

For an embodiment the Service Enrollment Module performs enrollment tasks with a realm that is represented by one or more curators. The Service Enrollment Module also manages the password and the login process with the connected CCS among others.

For an embodiment the Data Transport Module is responsible for data upload and download. The data can be uploaded from the compute device where the CCA operates and to any data repository in the cloud through any data transfer protocol such as email HTTP FTP etc. or physical data storage media such as floppy disc CD ROM DVD ROM USB Drive etc. and vice versa.

For an embodiment the Key Store and Directory Module stores local user s secrets such as the private secret keys that are encrypted and copies of various certificates that can be used for local CCA cache access and offline operations.

For an embodiment the Crypto Engine Module performs various encryption decryption signing and key generation functions.

For an embodiment the CCS Interface Module performs secure communications with CCS. For at least some embodiments the CCS Interface Module includes a RESTful interface Adapter CRUD calls for data and control communications between SCA and CCS a WebSockets Receive Callbacks from CCS and a DNS Resolver fast path for querying the CCS for directory certificates lookup and requesting for Mediation operations.

As shown the owner as shown in and is at least partially controlled by a server connect agent SCA . For an embodiment the SCA includes a software appliance that can be packaged as but not limited by a piece of executable program in a binary form a virtual machine or a dedicated server. For at least some embodiments the software appliance runs within a curator s firewall. Depicted in the embodiments of the SCA includes an Administrative Module a Realm Management Module a Data Transport Module a Key Store and Directory Module a Crypto Engine Module a CCS Interface Module a GRC Portal Module an a Policy Adaptor Module .

For at least some embodiments the Administrative Module performs various configuration and administrative tasks to configure the local SCA to manage users and groups within the SCA control to interface with human users through a command line interface CLI or a UI interface UI to interface with other programs through an application programming interface API to update SCA software from the connected CCS and to send event logs to CCS via CCS Interface Module .

For at least some embodiments the Realm Management Module is responsible for creating and managing a realm. the Realm Management Module performs tasks to invite or permit parties that are partially controlled by CCAs to join the realm. It is also capable of revoking a realm membership. For an embodiment a realm is one or more curators that are controlled by one SCA. Parties participating in the trustworthy workflow must be enrolled in at least one realm.

For at least some embodiments the Data Transport Module is responsible for data upload and download. The data can be uploaded from any data source within the one or more curators controlled by the SCA and to any data repository in the cloud through any data transfer protocol such as email HTTP FTP etc. or physical data storage media such as floppy disc CD ROM DVD ROM USB Drive etc. and vice versa. One source of data can be content containers controlled by Microsoft SharePoint software.

For at least some embodiments the Key Store and Directory Module stores the realm user s secrets such as their private secret keys that are encrypted and copies of various certificates that can be used for the SCA cache access and offline operations.

For at least some embodiments the Crypto Engine Module performs various encryption decryption signing and key generation functions.

For at least some embodiments the CCS Interface Module performs secure communications with CCS. At least some embodiments of the CCS Interface Module include a RESTful interface Adapter CRUD calls for data and control communications between the SCA and CCS a WebSockets Receive Callbacks from CCS and a DNS Resolver fast path for querying the CCS for directory certificates lookup and requesting for Mediation operations.

For at least some embodiments the GRC Portal Module is responsible for configuring logs alerts and reports for the realm querying and receiving from CCS for logs alerts and reports searching and indexing logs and caching logs locally and presenting the log information.

For at least some embodiments the Policy Adaptor Module provides integration interfaces with the existing data and identity management infrastructures in the one or more curators controlled by the SCA. For at least some embodiments the interfaces include support for protocols and services such as an Active Directory AD an Active Directory Federation Services ADFS a Certificate Authority CA a Security Assertion Markup Language SAML an Online Certificate Status Protocol OCSP and or Proxy Services.

As shown in and the mediator at least partially controlled by a cloud connect service CCS . For at least some embodiments the CCS is a collection of software running as Software as a Service SaaS in the cloud hosted by one or multiple Infrastructure as a Service IaaS providers. It is a high scale always on possibly geo distributed policy enforcement point which can facilitate complex possibly cross continental collaboration and commerce. The CCS is termed Trustworthy meaning that it cannot access any data or policy in the clear or cheat because it is prevented from doing so by cryptography based technologies. Without such a capability it would be technologically complex to monitor and enforce CCS behavior if at all that were to be possible.

As illustrated in at least some embodiments of the CCS include an OSS BSS Module a Data Store Module a Service Delivery Module a Crypto Engine Module and a CCS SCA Interface Module .

For at least some embodiments the OSS BSS Module performs operations including provisioning metering billing syndication federations and other external service interfaces. An embodiment of the OSS BSS Module provides customer support and trouble shooting.

For at least some embodiments the Data Store Module at least partially includes one or more of a DirFed Table SecureFed Table a MapFed Table a Policy Lookup Table a Revocation Lookup Table and a Logs and Archives . For an embodiment the DirFed Table is a directory for user and group identities certificates policies and other artifacts which are typically represented by the corresponding entity s public keys. For at least some embodiments the SecureFed Table stores encrypted secrets. For an embodiment the CCS nor any custodian is able to decrypt any entry in this table. For at least some embodiments the MapFed Table stores among others Group membership records represented at least partially through signed Mediation Keys and Realm roles including attestations and signatures from the realm SCAs. For an embodiment the Policy Lookup Table provides rapid lookup for multi hop re encryption key chains. For an embodiment the Revocation Lookup Table provides rapid lookup for revocation lists. For an embodiment the Logs and Archives keeps activities logs and events. It also archives for policies and activities as well as data.

For at least some embodiments for each sub module the Service Delivery Module includes at least a corresponding services delivered to CCAs and SCAs. For an embodiment services of the Service Delivery Module may interact with multiple sub modules . For an embodiment an Identity and Role Update Service receives identity and role update requests from SCAs and CCAs and updates the corresponding DirFed entries. For an embodiment a Credential Vault Service uploads and downloads the encrypted data encrypted keys and encrypted policies upon requests from CCAs and SCAs and updates entries in SecureFed and Logs and Archives . For an embodiment a Mediation Service receives Mediation Keys and Mediation operation requests from SCAs and CCAs and performs the requested operations. It updates and reads entries in MapFed . It may also interact with Policy Lookup Table and Revocation Lookup Table to validate identities and authorizations. For an embodiment a Policy Update Service updates groups and group memberships in DirFed upon requests from SCAs among other tasks. For an embodiment a Revocation Update Service receives identity and role revocation requests from primarily SCAs and updates entries in MapFed and Revocation Lookup Table . Among other sources such requests may originate from the CA and OCSP interfaces in Policy Adaptor Module . For an embodiment a Logs Alerts and Archives Service receives event logs from SCAs and CCAs and responds to SCAs GRC Portal Module requests

The interaction methods between CCSs SCAs and CCAs through above described modules and the combined system effects towards providing the trustworthy workflow across trust boundaries will become more apparent from the Operative Steps description as follows.

Although specific embodiments have been described and illustrated the embodiments are not to be limited to the specific forms or arrangements of parts so described and illustrated.

