---

title: Systems, methods and devices for satellite navigation
abstract: A three-dimensional map of an environment with buildings is used to computationally predict locations and times of global navigation satellite system (GNSS) blockages. For example, in urban environments some of the GNSS satellites are occluded by buildings. These blockages can be modeled. A computing system can make a map showing which satellites are or are not visible as a function both of location and time. The map can be used by a mobile GNSS receiver to determine which satellites to use or whether to use a backup system for navigation. The system can determine when a given satellite will enter or leave a GNSS receiver view during a route. The map can be stored in the GNSS receiver (or a host of the GNSS) or can be stored by a network service. This mapping can be used to predict multi-path effects of a satellite transmission at a location.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09611057&OS=09611057&RS=09611057
owner: ELWHA LLC
number: 09611057
owner_city: Bellevue
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150324
---
If an Application Data Sheet ADS has been filed on the filing date of this application it is incorporated by reference herein. Any applications claimed on the ADS for priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 120 121 or 365 c and any and all parent grandparent great grandparent etc. applications of such applications are also incorporated by reference including any priority claims made in those applications and any material incorporated by reference to the extent such subject matter is not inconsistent herewith.

The present application claims the benefit of the earliest available effective filing date s from the following listed application s the Priority Applications if any listed below e.g. claims earliest available priority dates for other than provisional patent applications or claims benefits under 35 U.S.C. 119 e for provisional patent applications for any and all parent grandparent great grandparent etc. applications of the Priority Application s .

If the listings of applications provided herein are inconsistent with the listings provided via an ADS it is the intent of the Applicants to claim priority to each application that appears in the Priority Applications section of the ADS and to each application that appears in the Priority Applications section of this application.

All subject matter of the Priority Applications and the Related Applications and of any and all parent grandparent great grandparent etc. applications of the Priority Applications and the Related Applications including any priority claims is incorporated herein by reference to the extent such subject matter is not inconsistent herewith.

The present disclosure relates to navigation systems and more specifically to modeling environments to predict global navigation satellite system behavior.

A detailed description of systems and methods consistent with embodiments of the present disclosure is provided below. While several embodiments are described it should be understood that the disclosure is not limited to any one embodiment but instead encompasses numerous alternatives modifications and equivalents. In addition while numerous specific details are set forth in the following description in order to provide a thorough understanding of the embodiments disclosed herein some embodiments can be practiced without some or all of these details. Moreover for the purpose of clarity certain technical material that is known in the related art has not been described in detail in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the disclosure.

Techniques apparatus and methods are disclosed that enable using a three dimensional spatial map of an environment with buildings or other man made structures to computationally predict locations and times of global navigation satellite system GNSS blockages e.g. low satellite transmission quality at a location . For example in urban environments e.g. New York City some GNSS satellites are occluded by buildings. These blockages can be a predicable event. A computing system can make a map showing which satellites are or are not visible as a function both of location within the city and time based at least in part on satellite orbits . This map can be made empirically by actually measuring signals at different locations and times or virtually given a digital model of the city and knowledge of the orbits . Such maps can be made on a satellite by satellite basis using a given satellite s behavior as the behavior depends on time in orbit relative to Earth s rotation . The map can enable a mobile GNSS receiver to determine which satellites to use in a given situation. The computing system can determine when a given satellite will enter or leave a GNSS receiver view during a route or a contiguous set of locations . The map can be stored in the GNSS receiver or a host of the GNSS or can be stored by a network service. This mapping can also be used to determine situations that include multi path effects for a given satellite.

A GNSS can include global satellite systems regional satellite systems and enhanced systems. Satellite systems include the global positioning system GPS GLONASS Beidou navigation satellite system BDS Galileo doppler orbitography and radio positioning integrated by satellite DORIS Indian regional navigational satellite system IRNSS and quasi zenith satellite system QZSS . Enhanced systems include wide area augmentation system WAAS European geostationary navigation overlay service EGNOS multi functional satellite augmentation system MSAS GPS aided geo augmented navigation GAGAN StarFire assisted GPS A GPS or aGPS and differential GPS DGPS .

In one embodiment a satellite visibility system can include storage that holds a three dimensional spatial map that includes buildings. Using satellite ephemeris data and a position within the map at a time a satellite signal transmission can be simulated from the satellite to the position at the time within the map. A transmission quality of the transmission can be estimated based on the simulation. In some embodiments multiple satellites can be simulated. In other embodiments satellite transmissions can be modeled over time such as at a fixed location or over a route taking into account satellite motion Earth rotation and user motion.

In an embodiment a navigation system can predict transmission qualities of satellite signals over time in an urban environment that includes buildings. The transmission qualities can be simulated over time to predict if or when the transmission qualities will degrade below a quality threshold. When too few satellite signals are above a transmission quality threshold a navigation position can be difficult to determine and or unreliable also known as an outage . The transmission qualities can also be simulated over time to predict a duration of an outage. When the transmission qualities are predicted to degrade below a quality threshold and or for a threshold period of time the navigation system can be configured to use a backup navigation subsystem with less or zero reliance on the satellites e.g. inertial navigation assisted global positioning system A GPS differential global positioning system DGPS etc. .

In some embodiments a navigation system can use the predicted transmission quality from simulated transmissions in the three dimensional maps to determine positional quality estimates. In one embodiment a navigation system can determine multi path effects such as time spread during the simulation of transmissions of the three dimensional environment using buildings. Simulations can also include estimates that include building materials and numbers of satellites. In an embodiment a positional quality estimate can be represented by a shape that forms a contour e.g. circle or ellipse of uncertainty of the current position. As the positional quality degrades the size of the shape increases showing a greater uncertainty of the position. In one embodiment a positional quality can be estimated over time including a duration of a positional quality below a positional quality threshold.

In some embodiments a GNSS receiver can be network connected. In an embodiment a GNSS receiver can be connected to a local regional and or global network. In one embodiment a GNSS receiver can be connected with a network service that provides navigation support such as three dimensional maps satellite data warm start information satellite maps time dependent service coverage maps or other navigation and or simulation information . In another embodiment the GNSS receiver can be connected with other GNSS receivers through the network. In an embodiment GNSS receivers share information such as updated maps unexpected blockages or other measurements predictions estimates and or data.

In some embodiments a network service can provide some or all of the simulation processing results and or navigation data to a connected GNSS receiver. In several embodiments the GNSS receiver offloads processing to a network service. In one embodiment a GNSS receiver provides a position and time to a network service and receives data describing predicted transmission qualities of satellites. In another embodiment a GNSS receiver provides a route to a network service and receives predicted outage information. In one embodiment a GNSS receiver provides a current position to a network service and receives a set of updates on simulated transmission qualities of satellites along a route estimated by the network service. In other embodiments a GNSS receiver receives updated information from a network service. In an embodiment a GNSS receiver receives updated three dimensional maps from the network service.

In one embodiment a GNSS receiver can communicate with other GNSS receivers in a peer to peer fashion. In one embodiment the peer to peer connections are over a wide area network such as the Internet . In another embodiment the peer to peer connections are over a local network connection such as a device to device connection . In some embodiments the GNSS receivers share data such as transmission quality history updated maps inconsistencies between measured and predicted information blockage information etc. In an embodiment local GNSS receivers share computing resources such as splitting up computing tasks computing positions detecting satellite ephemeris data or simulating satellite positions by computing in parallel and sharing results.

In some embodiments a GNSS receiver can share data and correlate results. In an embodiment unexpected obstructions to satellite transmissions as seen by degraded transmission quality are correlated. Using this correlation an obstruction can be determined and added to a three dimensional map. In one embodiment temporary obstructions can be differentiated from permanent obstructions such as by time of day of observations etc. .

In some embodiments a GNSS receiver or service can determine active interference with GNSS. A GNSS receiver can use simulation to determine inconsistencies with simulated results that can indicate external actions such as spoofing jamming or other active measures to interfere with GNSS operation. In an embodiment a GNSS receiver determines that a result of a simulation indicates that a satellite transmission has a low predicted transmission quality. A received transmission with a higher transmission quality can indicate spoofing. In another embodiment a simulation indicates that a satellite transmission has a high predicted transmission quality. A low transmission quality can indicate jamming. In one embodiment a higher than expected background noise indicates jamming.

In some GNSS systems such as GPS a satellite transmission includes a pseudorandom code satellite ephemeris data and almanac data. The pseudorandom code identifies a satellite from which the transmission originates. The satellite ephemeris data can include information about satellite location current and or predicted timing and satellite health. Almanac data can describe coarse orbital parameters of the satellite and other satellites in the GNSS.

In one embodiment a GNSS receiver uses trilateration to determine latitude longitude and altitude. By aligning an internal clock with received transmissions from satellites taking into account delays in receipt a GNSS receiver can determine a distance away from a satellite based on a delay of transmission to receipt. By combining these distance measurements with satellite ephemeris data a GNSS receiver can determine its position. Using historical information a GNSS receiver can also determine speed direction acceleration and other position based information. Based on signals from three satellites a GNSS receiver can estimate latitude and longitude using trilateration and an assumption of the Earth as a sphere. Based on signals from four or more satellites a GNSS receiver can estimate latitude longitude and altitude.

By using a three dimensional map to estimate transmission quality of satellite transmissions to a GNSS receiver decisions can be made based on GNSS navigation quality such as number of satellites having transmission quality above a transmission quality threshold expected duration of a threshold number of satellites having transmission quality above a transmission quality threshold expected duration of satellites having transmission quality below a transmission quality threshold etc. .

GNSS based systems can also be used to enable location based services besides route guidance. Location based services can include routing fleet services medical services and directed advertising. In one embodiment GNSS services can be used to predict location based services quality which can include Internet connectivity quality . For example a GPS receiver can use aGPS information e.g. cellular towers wireless local area network WLAN or Wi Fi signals to predict location determination time e.g. GPS lock on time as well as cellular signal strength. In another embodiment WLAN signals are used to supplement low quality GNSS signals and aid in prediction of a location indoors through use of a database of WLAN access point locations. In another embodiment a hybrid GPS system is used which can use GPS signals cell tower signals wireless internet signals Bluetooth sensors IP addresses and or network environment data.

GNSS based systems can also be used to predict location based service quality and or compare predicted location based service quality between routes. Simulations of GNSS systems can include supplemental simulations or information in the three dimensional map such as cell towers and reference sites. For example a GPS system can use aGPS information cellular towers etc. and or DGPS information reference sites etc. in its simulation to predict location based service quality. As satellite signals transmission quality changes in spacetime in simulation the aGPS and or DGPS behavior can be simulated in spacetime to determine effects on location based service quality. The simulating system can recommend a route based on the predicted location based service quality. In some embodiments the predicted location based service quality is Internet service quality.

In one embodiment routing information is delivered to a robotic vehicle. The vehicle can be dependent on a data link which includes a link with a GNSS service to provide routing information. The GNSS service can provide rating on routes based at least in part on efficacy for location based services including location based cellular services etc. . The route can then be delivered to the robotic vehicle over the data link.

In the embodiment shown satellites and are modeled to provide transmissions and to the spacetime location . Transmissions and are predicted to have a high transmission quality shown by solid lines while transmission is predicted to be blocked by a building and become a low quality transmission shown by the dashed line .

In some embodiments the GNSS modeling system can include other modeling techniques. For example a line of sight from the spacetime location and a satellite is modeled to be a high quality transmission. The GNSS can also model non line of sight situations which provide a degraded quality transmission such as blocking by a building or the Earth . The GNSS modeling system can use construction material composition data to determine reflection refraction transmittance and or absorption of signal transmissions from the satellites and . In another example the GNSS modeling system can estimate multi path effects from reflections in between buildings such as delay and or frequency spread . These models can aid in determining an uncertainty in predicted navigation position determination.

In some embodiments a navigation quality can be determined using the model . In some embodiments if a minimum number of satellites and having a predicted transmission quality that exceeds a transmission quality threshold is not met then a navigation quality can be predicted to be degraded. When a navigation quality is sufficiently degraded it is called an outage. In some embodiments a minimum of four satellites with a transmission quality that exceeds a transmission threshold is needed to provide accurate latitude longitude and altitude estimates. In an embodiment a minimum of three satellites with a transmission quality that exceeds a transmission threshold is needed to provide accurate latitude and longitude estimates.

In some embodiments predictions are on a per satellite basis. For a given spacetime location the model indicates which satellites have a clear line of sight. The model can indicate how many and which satellites a given spacetime location should be able to access. In some embodiments this information is used to determine when and where a GNSS system will have insufficient such as less than four satellites in view. In some embodiments this information is used to determine which satellites a GNSS receiver should attempt to access. In some embodiments this information is used to determine the effect which transmissions from specific satellites will have on location accuracy provided by a GNSS receiver at a spacetime location and can be used to determine not only which satellites the GNSS receiver should attempt to access but also their relative priority and or the order in which they should be accessed.

In addition to blockage information a three dimensional map can be used to predict multipath effects in some embodiments. The predictions can include a time spread for each satellite s signals at a given spacetime location a strength of reflected signals and a frequency spread. This prediction can be computed whether or not the satellite line of sight is blocked. This prediction or predictions can be used to determine where alternative navigation systems such as AGPS are needed. In some embodiments spatial locations that suffer frequent blockages can be selected as prime candidates for alternative navigation systems.

A time dependent coverage map can be obtained by different sources. In one embodiment a central service computes the time dependent coverage map . The central service can then provide the map and or updates to the map through a network such as a wireless network e.g. cellular wireless local area network WLAN personal area network PAN etc. to the GNSS system. In some embodiments the service provides an application programming interface API to allow GNSS receivers to request the time dependent coverage map . In other embodiments the service can provide a push message to provide the time dependent coverage map . In another embodiment a GNSS receiver calculates the time dependent coverage map itself. In yet another embodiment GNSS receivers can share time dependent coverage maps through peer networking. In one embodiment GNSS receivers share processing resources and compute a time dependent coverage map in parallel.

In some embodiments satellite transmission quality predictions can be made for travel along a route. These transmission quality predictions can include a determination of which satellites are predicted to be available at any spacetime location along the route. The predictions can include when and or where a single satellite or full GNSS outage will occur along a route and for how long given travel along the route. For example if a satellite k is currently obstructed the GNSS modeling system can tell when it will become available and for how long. If satellite k is currently available the GNSS modeling system can tell when it will become obstructed.

The time dependent coverage map can be based on a three dimensional map and satellite ephemeris data. Satellite ephemeris data can include information about a satellite and a constellation of satellites. For example satellite ephemeris data from the satellite can indicate that the satellite moves along a trajectory .

In some embodiments predictions as to length of outages and number of satellites involved can be used to decide how to deal with an outage. If satellite k is predicted to be visible for a short period the navigation system can decide not to attempt to use it. If an outage along the route is short the navigation system can decide to rely on inertial backup. If the outage is predicted to last longer the navigation system can engage alternative navigation systems e.g. inertial systems augmented systems such as AGPS systems etc. . In one embodiment a decision as to which type of alternative system to use during an outage can depend on how many satellites are still available and their directions .

In addition to computational predictions based on a three dimensional map of the environment the predictions can include empirically measured blockage information from GPS receivers at various spacetime locations. These measurements can come from a local receiver or from other receivers e.g. peer to peer or report to a service . These measurements may be used to infer locations of obstructions.

The predictions can be made into a time dependent coverage map allowing users to get coverage information for any desired spacetime location. The coverage map can be made on board each GPS receiver using either an on board or service based three dimensional map of the environment. In an embodiment a coverage map can be provided by an off board entity which supplies the information to GNSS receivers.

In some embodiments the predictions can be used to diagnose coverage issues. A low signal level for satellite k at a location where coverage should exist can indicate an unmodeled obstruction. If a locus of blockages of lines of sight converges a fixed obstruction can be inferred from the blockages allowing the fixed obstruction to be added to the three dimensional map. If the lines of sight blockages do not converge this result can indicate a temporary obstruction e.g. from a nearby vehicle .

An application of the modeling system is used in some embodiments shown in to identify spoofing or jamming. If the modeling system predicts using the map that satellite k has a low transmission quality at the time location then a signal from the satellite represents a spoofing attempt. If the modeling system predicts using the map that satellite k has a high transmission quality at the time location then a low transmission quality due to high noise represents a jamming event whereas a low transmission quality due to low signal strength represents a blockage event.

Depending on the embodiment a GNSS modeling system can be incorporated into the receiver or a GNSS service. In some embodiments the navigation control system can predict satellite transmission qualities to a position at a time using a GNSS prediction system . The navigation control system can retrieve information from storage and model satellite transmissions to a location at a time as described above e.g. in conjunction with . For example the navigation control system can retrieve a three dimensional map from map storage and satellite ephemeris data from satellite data storage and or from satellite signals received through the GNSS receiver . Using determined route data which can be retrieved from route data storage or predicted based on position history retrieved from history storage the navigation control system can model satellite transmissions in the three dimensional maps to an expected spacetime location of the navigation system using the GNSS receiver . This predicted data can be used to determine whether to rely on the GNSS receiver engage augmented systems such as the aGPS system with a GPS antenna or use alternate navigation systems such as the inertial navigation system with inertial sensors .

In some embodiments the navigation control system can communicate with the network service over the network interface connected to an antenna to receive information for predicting satellite transmission qualities. The navigation control system can perform all or some computations locally or rely on the network service to receive data e.g. three dimensional maps ephemeris data coverage maps time dependent coverage maps predicted transmission quality data etc. . For example and in one embodiment the navigation control system receives an updated three dimensional map from the network service over a wireless network such as a cellular network WLAN PAN etc. . The navigation control system can store the updated map in map storage and use it in future modeling of satellite transmissions. In some embodiments the navigation control system can use an offline cache to store data for when communication with the network service is unavailable.

In another embodiment the network service simulates a model of satellites over time and provides a time dependent map to the navigation control system . The navigation control system can then use the predicted coverage map to make decisions regarding navigation such as relying on a GNSS receiver using alternate navigation waiting for an outage to pass estimating position based on historical data and or predicted data etc. .

In an embodiment the network service simulates a model of satellites over time in a three dimensional map with buildings and provides a predicted satellite transmission quality at a spacetime position. The model can simulate a transmission of satellite navigation signals from a set of satellites to a set of locations. The simulation can be requested by the navigation control system through an API of the network service . The simulation can be performed by the network service and reported to the navigation control system based on prior requests and a predicted route with timing.

In another embodiment the navigation control system can provide GNSS receiver data to the navigation service and receive results. For example the navigation control system can provide the received transmission data to the network service . The network service can compare the measured data signal strength timing noise the receiver s derived position estimate etc. to predicted data signal strength timing noise a position estimate predicted from satellite data and a three dimensional map etc. . The network service can then report the predicted position anomalies such as jamming or spoofing and or suggested recommendations for navigation. Recommendations for navigation can be based on predictions of outages determined spoofing or jamming and or measured satellite transmission qualities. The network service can also correlate multiple reports of unexpected low transmission qualities to determine temporary or permanent unmodeled obstructions.

In some embodiments the navigation control system can communicate with the GNSS receiver to compare received GNSS signals over an antenna to predicted GNSS signals. The navigation control system can use these anomalies to determine unmodeled obstructions spoofing or jamming and or to make decisions on navigation.

For example GNSS navigation system predicts a satellite transmission quality using a three dimensional map and satellite ephemeris data in block . GNSS navigation system predicts a satellite transmission quality using a three dimensional map and satellite ephemeris data in block . This repeats with a plurality of GNSS navigation systems up to N systems including GNSS navigation system N which predicts a satellite transmission quality using a three dimensional map and satellite ephemeris data in block . The GNSS navigation systems and then perform a sensing of transmission quality in blocks and that matches the prior prediction in blocks and . At least some of the predictions do not match the measured satellite transmission quality. These failures are reported to the GNSS service . GNSS navigation system reports the failure to match in operation . GNSS navigation system reports the failure to match in operation . GNSS navigation system N reports the failure to match in operation . The GNSS service correlates reports in block until the correlation converges e.g. a previously unknown obstruction is identified or a previously known obstruction is removed in block . The GNSS service then sends an update such as an updated three dimensional map an updated coverage map etc. to the GNSS navigation systems and in operation . The GNSS navigation system receives a transmission from the GNSS service in operation . The GNSS navigation system receives a transmission from the GNSS service in operation . This continues to include the GNSS navigation system N receiving a transmission from the GNSS service in operation

The GNSS navigation systems and perform a prediction in operation . The GNSS navigation systems while within communication range share information wherein predictions of satellite transmission qualities did not match measured satellite transmission qualities in operation . The GNSS navigation systems perform correlation of the shared data in operation in an attempt to discover unknown obstructions or remove obstructions from three dimensional maps. The GNSS navigation systems and perform another prediction in operation . The GNSS navigation systems while within communication range share information wherein predictions of satellite transmission qualities did not match measured satellite transmission qualities in operation . The GNSS navigation systems perform correlation of the shared data in operation in an attempt to discover unknown obstructions or remove obstructions from three dimensional maps. Updated three dimensional maps can be shared with GNSS navigation systems and in operation .

For example the GNSS navigation systems and determine predicted satellite transmission qualities in operation . GNSS navigation system predicts transmission qualities from satellites in block . GNSS navigation system predicts transmission qualities from satellites in block . GNSS navigation system N predicts transmission qualities from satellites in block . The GNSS navigation systems and then sense measured satellite transmission qualities in blocks and respectively. Significant deviations between predicted satellite transmission quality and measured transmission quality can be shared between the GNSS navigation systems and when they are in peer to peer network range in operation . GNSS navigation system reports deviations to GNSS navigation system in transmission . GNSS navigation system reports deviations to GNSS navigation system in transmission . The GNSS navigation systems and then perform a correlation operation . GNSS navigation system performs a correlation operation in block and updates an internal map with discovered information such as potential new obstructions or potential obstructions that are no longer present in block . GNSS navigation system performs a correlation operation in block and updates an internal map with discovered information such as potential new obstructions or potential obstructions that are no longer present in block

The prediction operations report operations and correlation operations can repeat until it is determined that a new obstruction is present or a previous obstruction is no longer present on a three dimensional map that includes buildings. In the example shown the GNSS navigation systems and determine predicted satellite transmission qualities in operation . GNSS navigation system predicts transmission qualities from satellites in block . GNSS navigation system predicts transmission qualities from satellites in block . GNSS navigation system N predicts transmission qualities from satellites in block . The GNSS navigation systems and then sense measured satellite transmission qualities in blocks and respectively. Significant deviations between predicted satellite transmission quality and measured transmission quality can be shared between GNSS navigation systems and when they are in peer to peer network range in operation . GNSS navigation system reports deviations to GNSS navigation system N in transmission . GNSS navigation system N reports deviations to GNSS navigation system in transmission . The GNSS navigation systems and then perform a correlation operation . GNSS navigation system performs a correlation operation in block and updates an internal map with discovered information such as potential new obstructions or potential obstructions that are no longer present in block . GNSS navigation system N performs a correlation operation in block and updates an internal map with discovered information such as potential new obstructions or potential obstructions that are no longer present in block

Due to the correlation operation performed by GNSS navigation system an obstruction was discovered and added to the three dimensional map in block . This updated map can be shared via a network connection shown here as a peer to peer connection but other connections are also possible e.g. network service repository WLAN PAN etc. as shown in operation . In the embodiment shown GNSS navigation system transmits the updated three dimensional map to GNSS navigation system in transmission . GNSS navigation system then updates its map with the new information in block . Depending on the embodiment the update can be information describing the change to the three dimensional map e.g. an addition or an update to a portion of a three dimensional map or an update of the entire three dimensional map.

In one example a user can set up an account with the service using an application on a mobile device. The user registers an account with the service . The service can store user credentials in storage .

Embodiments and implementations of the systems and methods described herein may include various operations which may be embodied in machine executable instructions to be executed by a computer system. A computer system may include one or more general purpose or special purpose computers or other electronic devices . The computer system may include hardware components that include specific logic for performing the operations or may include a combination of hardware software and or firmware.

Computer systems and the computers in a computer system may be connected via a network. Suitable networks for configuration and or use as described herein include one or more local area networks wide area networks metropolitan area networks and or Internet or IP networks such as the World Wide Web a private Internet a secure Internet a value added network a virtual private network an extranet an intranet or even stand alone machines which communicate with other machines by physical transport of media. In particular a suitable network may be formed from parts or entireties of two or more other networks including networks using disparate hardware and network communication technologies.

One suitable network includes a server and one or more clients other suitable networks may contain other combinations of servers clients and or peer to peer nodes and a given computer system may function both as a client and as a server. Each network includes at least two computers or computer systems such as the server and or clients. A computer system may include a workstation laptop computer disconnectable mobile computer server mainframe cluster so called network computer or thin client tablet smart phone personal digital assistant or other hand held computing device smart consumer electronics device or appliance medical device or a combination thereof.

Suitable networks may include communications or networking software such as the software available from Novell Microsoft and other vendors and may operate using TCP IP SPX IPX and other protocols over twisted pair coaxial or optical fiber cables telephone lines radio waves satellites microwave relays modulated AC power lines physical media transfer and or other data transmission wires known to those of skill in the art. The network may encompass smaller networks and or be connectable to other networks through a gateway or similar mechanism.

Various techniques or certain aspects or portions thereof may take the form of program code i.e. instructions embodied in tangible media such as floppy diskettes CD ROMs hard drives magnetic or optical cards solid state memory devices a nontransitory computer readable storage medium or any other machine readable storage medium wherein when the program code is loaded into and executed by a machine such as a computer the machine becomes an apparatus for practicing the various techniques. In the case of program code execution on programmable computers the computing device may include a processor a storage medium readable by the processor including volatile and nonvolatile memory and or storage elements at least one input device and at least one output device. The volatile and nonvolatile memory and or storage elements may be a RAM an EPROM a flash drive an optical drive a magnetic hard drive or other medium for storing electronic data. One or more programs that may implement or utilize the various techniques described herein may use an application programming interface API reusable controls and the like. Such programs may be implemented in a high level procedural or an object oriented programming language to communicate with a computer system. However the program s may be implemented in assembly or machine language if desired. In any case the language may be a compiled or interpreted language and combined with hardware implementations.

Each computer system includes one or more processors and or memory computer systems may also include various input devices and or output devices. The processor may include a general purpose device such as an Intel AMD or other off the shelf microprocessor. The processor may include a special purpose processing device such as ASIC SoC SiP FPGA PAL PLA FPLA PLD or other customized or programmable device. The memory may include static RAM dynamic RAM flash memory one or more flip flops ROM CD ROM DVD disk tape or magnetic optical or other computer storage medium. The input device s may include a keyboard mouse touch screen light pen tablet microphone sensor or other hardware with accompanying firmware and or software. The output device s may include a monitor or other display printer speech or text synthesizer switch signal line or other hardware with accompanying firmware and or software.

It should be understood that many of the functional units described in this specification may be implemented as one or more components which is a term used to more particularly emphasize their implementation independence. For example a component may be implemented as a hardware circuit comprising custom very large scale integration VLSI circuits or gate arrays or off the shelf semiconductors such as logic chips transistors or other discrete components. A component may also be implemented in programmable hardware devices such as field programmable gate arrays programmable array logic programmable logic devices or the like.

Components may also be implemented in software for execution by various types of processors. An identified component of executable code may for instance comprise one or more physical or logical blocks of computer instructions which may for instance be organized as an object a procedure or a function. Nevertheless the executables of an identified component need not be physically located together but may comprise disparate instructions stored in different locations that when joined logically together comprise the component and achieve the stated purpose for the component.

Indeed a component of executable code may be a single instruction or many instructions and may even be distributed over several different code segments among different programs and across several memory devices. Similarly operational data may be identified and illustrated herein within components and may be embodied in any suitable form and organized within any suitable type of data structure. The operational data may be collected as a single data set or may be distributed over different locations including over different storage devices and may exist at least partially merely as electronic signals on a system or network. The components may be passive or active including agents operable to perform desired functions.

Several aspects of the embodiments described will be illustrated as software modules or components. As used herein a software module or component may include any type of computer instruction or computer executable code located within a memory device. A software module may for instance include one or more physical or logical blocks of computer instructions which may be organized as a routine program object component data structure etc. that perform one or more tasks or implement particular data types. It is appreciated that a software module may be implemented in hardware and or firmware instead of or in addition to software. One or more of the functional modules described herein may be separated into sub modules and or combined into a single or smaller number of modules.

In certain embodiments a particular software module may include disparate instructions stored in different locations of a memory device different memory devices or different computers which together implement the described functionality of the module. Indeed a module may include a single instruction or many instructions and may be distributed over several different code segments among different programs and across several memory devices. Some embodiments may be practiced in a distributed computing environment where tasks are performed by a remote processing device linked through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment software modules may be located in local and or remote memory storage devices. In addition data being tied or rendered together in a database record may be resident in the same memory device or across several memory devices and may be linked together in fields of a record in a database across a network.

Reference throughout this specification to an example means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the example is included in at least one embodiment of the present invention. Thus appearances of the phrase in an example in various places throughout this specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment.

As used herein a plurality of items structural elements compositional elements and or materials may be presented in a common list for convenience. However these lists should be construed as though each member of the list is individually identified as a separate and unique member. Thus no individual member of such list should be construed as a de facto equivalent of any other member of the same list solely based on its presentation in a common group without indications to the contrary. In addition various embodiments and examples of the present invention may be referred to herein along with alternatives for the various components thereof. It is understood that such embodiments examples and alternatives are not to be construed as de facto equivalents of one another but are to be considered as separate and autonomous representations of the present invention.

Furthermore the described features structures or characteristics may be combined in any suitable manner in one or more embodiments. In the following description numerous specific details are provided such as examples of materials frequencies sizes lengths widths shapes etc. to provide a thorough understanding of embodiments of the invention. One skilled in the relevant art will recognize however that the invention may be practiced without one or more of the specific details or with other methods components materials etc. In other instances well known structures materials or operations are not shown or described in detail to avoid obscuring aspects of the invention.

Although the foregoing has been described in some detail for purposes of clarity it will be apparent that certain changes and modifications may be made without departing from the principles thereof. It should be noted that there are many alternative ways of implementing both the processes and apparatuses described herein. Accordingly the present embodiments are to be considered illustrative and not restrictive and the invention is not to be limited to the details given herein but may be modified within the scope and equivalents of the appended claims.

Those having skill in the art will appreciate that many changes may be made to the details of the above described embodiments without departing from the underlying principles of the invention. The scope of the present invention should therefore be determined only by the following claims.

