---

title: Complex recording trigger
abstract: Complex recording triggers are provided. As an example of a system and method, the volume of call records can be reduced by complex recording triggers, thereby reducing the storage space allocated for call records.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09451086&OS=09451086&RS=09451086
owner: Verint Americas Inc.
number: 09451086
owner_city: Alpharetta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150126
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 361 208 filed Feb. 24 2006 entitled Complex Recording Trigger which incorporates by reference application Ser. No. 11 166 630 which is a continuation in part of application Ser. No. 10 118 848 filed Apr. 8 2002 which is a continuation in part of application Ser. No. 09 212 900 which issued as U.S. Pat. No. 6 370 574 and of Ser. No. 10 058 911 filed Jan. 28 2002 each of which are hereby incorporated herein by reference.

This disclosure relates to computer telephony integration systems and methods and more particularly to systems and methods for voice and data recording and monitoring of a computer workstation.

In some business environments computers are used in conjunction with telephones in order to provide services. For example in providing credit card related services it is known to provide customer service representatives hereinafter referred to as agents or employees with access to a computer workstation as well as a telephone. In the process of providing telephonic service from the agent to the customer a customer can contact the agent or vice versa through a telephone connection and the customer and the agent will discuss matters relating to the customer s account over the telephone.

During such telephone calls in order to provide supportive information regarding the customer s account it is likewise conventional to provide the customer s account information at the agent s workstation. As an example in the instance of credit card services it is conventional to provide the agent s computer with information such as the customer s outstanding balance the amount last paid etc. It is also known to provide the agent with access to a database including certain fields to which the agent can input data responsive to the telephone conversation. For example the agent may wish to insert data to indicate that the customer has promised payment by a certain date or that certain special attention should be given to the customer for any reason.

Such agents are often provided in groups referred to as call centers . In certain instances such call centers may have as many as 200 agents in a group each having their own telephone extension and each likewise having their own computer workstation having a monitor or screen which provides video signals responsive to various commands.

In order to provide supervision of such agents it is often desired to allow an agent s supervisor hereinafter supervisor with a way to monitor the screen and voice activities of such agents during their telephone conversations. Such monitoring of a monitored workstation may be considered quality control of the agent s services. For example it is worthwhile for a supervisor to know if an agent is using his her computer time efficiently not moving back and forth from various screens or applications unnecessarily or is rude or discourteous while on the telephone. Such information can be determined by having a supervisor look over the shoulder of an agent viewing his her computer activities as well as listening to the telephone conversations however due to human nature this tends to be an ineffective practice as an agent will tend to be on guard while being monitored which may not provide the supervisor with a good example of how the agent normally would conduct his her duties when not being monitored. For example the agent could become nervous and not perform as well as normal if he she knows he she is being monitored.

Monitoring systems have been developed which transparently monitor the agent s . These monitoring systems record the activities of the agent s making the records available for supervisor review training and provide an audit trail for transactions entered by the agent s . However monitoring a large number of phones can produce an enormous volume of call records. It can be expensive to set up a system to record and maintain such a large volume of calls.

In accordance with this disclosure systems and methods for complex recording triggers are provided. As an example of a system and method the volume of call records can be cut down by complex recording triggers thereby reducing the storage space allocated for call records. As another example a system and method can be configured to predict whether an agent should be monitored such that the call records are maintained with reference to specific agents.

Other features and advantages of the present disclosure will become apparent upon reading the following detailed description of the disclosure when taken in conjunction with the drawings and claims.

Reference is now made to which illustrates a configuration according to the present disclosure. As shown the configuration includes a public switched telephone network PSTN connecting a plurality of contacts to an interaction center e.g. a call center . The call center can include an internal voice data network to which is attached a server a group of monitored workstations e.g. agent workstations a monitoring workstation e.g. supervisor workstation and a monitor server . Networking between these elements may be done through TCP IP protocols although other network protocols may be used without departing from the scope of the present disclosure.

On screen activities conducted at the monitored workstation can be viewed or monitored by the supervisor on the screen of the monitoring workstation either in real time i.e. as the activities are actually occurring and or the on screen activities conducted at the monitored workstation can be recorded by the monitor server to a call records database and played back at the monitoring workstation at a later time. These activities may be played back much as one would play back the video tape of a television program that is the on screen and synchronized voice activities that occurred at the monitored workstation may allowed to play at the monitoring workstation substantially as they previously actually happened portions may be replayed the activities may be stopped or paused for particular review and certain portions may be skipped if so desired.

It should be understood that the call center server is configured to receive and route telephone calls received via the public switched telephone network from contacts to any of a number of agent workstations via the internal call center network . The call center server can perform the functions of an automatic call distribution system for example by retrieving contact data from the contact database and analyzing agent data from an agent data database to determine which of the agents working at the agent workstations should receive an incoming call from a contact . Moreover the call center server can provide script data stored in a script data database to the agent workstation to assist the agent in communicating with the contact. Where the call center is a technical assistance center for a product the script could be a troubleshooting manual which gives the agent several possible problems and solutions for the symptoms specified by the contact. It should be noted however that the script could be implemented in many different ways such as for example a web page. Moreover the script could be stored on the agent workstation rather than the call center server.

The software on the monitor server can be configured to send data polls to software installed and running on the agent workstation . It should be understood however that the agent workstation can be configured to provide the updates to the monitor without prompting from the monitor server . The software on the agent workstation can intercept workstation data by hooking or scraping. Hooking operates by capturing operating system graphics primitives relevant to actual screen display and either returns selected screen portions referred to as changed regions which have changed since the last data poll. The changed regions are displayable at a remote location in real time or can be recorded for display at a remote location at a later time. The technique is substantially passive in that it preferably does not perceptibly interfere with the operation of the agent s workstation which would be a signal to the agent that he or she is being monitored.

As mentioned above the monitor could also use a scraping technique. The scraping can occur in response to a poll. When the poll is received the full screen is grabbed and compared such as by an XOR operation to a previously grabbed screen and changed regions including the screen differences are sent over the network to the server. In one implementation the first and last differences in the XOR comparison are determined and all data therebetween is considered within the changed region which is not necessarily rectangular. However it should be recognized that the entire screen or portions of the screen could be sent over the network using either the hooking or scraping techniques or the primitive graphics commands themselves or any other technique operable communicate the agent s activities for recording may be sent in accordance with the present disclosure.

In order to provide consistent and acceptable service to contacts systems can monitor both the desktop screen display and the telephonic habits of the agents in order to properly train agents and to provide quality control of the agent s services. Moreover the computer activities of the agent are synchronized with the telephone communication of the agent. Thus a later viewer e.g. the supervisor could view the agent s activities and listen to the conversation substantially as it occurred in real time.

The hardware used can be personal computer PC hardware such as that used to operate OS 2 available from IBM Corporation of White Plains N.Y. or Windows available from Microsoft Corporation of Redmond Wash. However it should be understood that different hardware configurations may be used without departing from the spirit and scope of the present disclosure.

The workstation is loaded with and runs a graphics user interface such as for example OS 2 indicated generally as and defined by the dotted line . However it should be noted that the scope of this disclosure is not limited to a particular operating system. For example the teachings of the present disclosure can be applied to any number of operating systems including but not limited to OS 2 Windows Unix type operating systems such as available from Sun Microsystems of Santa Clara Calif. Linux available from RedHat Corporation of Raleigh N.C. Mac OS X available from Apple Computer Inc. of Cupertino Calif. among many others. As is known in the art the OS 2 operating system incorporates the use of a graphics engine known as OS2GRE in OS 2 and GDI in Windows . Upon receiving an instruction from for example one of applications example draw a window the operating system will utilize its graphics engine to send a combination of typically smaller more specific i.e. low level instructions by means of graphics primitives e.g. draw line bitbIt draw wide border draw text etc. to a display driver associated with the particular video display hardware e.g. I O is being used within the monitored workstation.

As noted in more detail below it is these graphics primitives which are interpreted under the present disclosure in order to define localized screen changes. Such screen changes can be due to on screen typing as described in detail below can be pursuant to manual or automatic user commands open close window or can be other automatic screen changes such as caused by a blinking cursor or an on screen clock.

As may be understood multiple applications may be used by the agent on the workstation to provide service to the customers. These applications can include myriad programs such as for example a web browser an online help manual training programs and scheduling programs among many others. Because every application is drawing to its own virtual desk top and is not aware of what the other applications are doing the graphics engine responds to different requests from the applications determining what requests should be visible to the end user and sends those requests as a list of primitives to the video driver.

The general configuration and operation of the operating system such as OS 2 is assumed to be known to one skilled in the art however the reference manual OS 2 2.0 Technical Library Presentation Driver Reference Version 2.00 Published by IBM First Edition copyright 1992 and subsequent versions thereof are incorporated herein by reference including but not limited to the general operation of the OS 2 operating system the function and operation of graphics primitives generally and individually and dynamic link library functions DLLs .

The capturing software generally consists of a capture module and a monitor module e.g. monitor capture client . The operation of the monitor capture modules is described in detail in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 118 848 entitled Improved Method and Apparatus for Simultaneously Monitoring Computer User Screen and Telephone Activity from a Remote Location which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The record retrieval client can be configured to retrieve records from the call records database via the call center network after the monitor server has stored the call record. The records can be stored and searched according to parameters related to agent information call information and parameters suitable for searching a call records database and a call center configuration database. The record retrieval client can further replay the records retrieved from the call records database such that a supervisor can review the activities of the selected agent for example. During replay the record retrieval client can send the recorded on screen activities to the display for rendering while replaying the voice data synchronously via a speaker not shown at the supervisor workstation . Thus the conversation between the agent and the contact can be heard while simultaneously viewing the on screen activities of the agent. This can be particularly useful in providing feedback to the agent by providing critique from the supervisor providing further training to correct noted mistakes or for resolving disputes between the contact and the call center among many others. It should be noted that the record retrieval client could be provided to any of the agents as well. Moreover it should also be noted that the record retrieval client could be used to monitor data received directly from the agent workstation s .

It should be understood that the monitor server operates similarly to the monitor server described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 166 630 entitled Improved Method and Apparatus for Simultaneously Monitoring Computer User Screen and Telephone Activity from a Remote Location in order to capture and record data from the agent workstation s . However the monitor server additionally includes the functionality to collect statistics on the agent s by recording the agent s activities for a predetermined period of time using the statistics collection module . The predetermined period of time is statistical sampling period which should be long enough for the system to detect any patterns in the behavior of the agent s . However it should be understood that the statistics collection module could be unnecessary if a sufficient statistical sample has been previously compiled and recorded to the call records database .

The statistical analysis module can identify patterns in the behavior of an agent or a group of agents. For example a particular agent may have a poor demeanor at certain times of the day or on certain days of the week or month. The statistical analysis can further be used to identify positive behaviors and negative behaviors. Using the identified patterns of behavior the statistical analysis module can further predict future behavior based upon the statistical analysis of historical behavior. The statistical analysis module can therefore be programmed to look for activity that deviates from an acceptable standard and attempt to predict when that behavior might occur. Moreover the statistical analysis module can be further programmed to notify the monitor retrieval server when a predicted behavior might occur. The monitor retrieval server can then use this information to make a decision on whether to monitor or record an agent s workstation during the predicted behavior.

It should be noted that the monitor retrieval server can use other triggers to decide whether to monitor or record an agent s workstation. For example a scorecard is developed that helps a supervisor evaluate an agent based upon a variety of categories including for example courteousness skill system knowledge areas of expertise etc. A supervisor or administrator can then set a threshold score whereby agents meeting the threshold are not monitored while agents not meeting the threshold are monitored. It should also be understood that the scorecard can be used to trigger monitoring when an agent with a low score in a particular area of expertise is handling calls in that same area of expertise thereby enabling tighter monitoring of agents that may have trouble handling specific types of calls.

Therefore the statistics collection module and the statistical analysis module can be used to collect information on a number of agents and make predictions regarding the agents behavior. Moreover the predictions can be used to reduce the volume of calls that are monitored by the monitor server . This reduction in monitored calls in turn reduces the maximum storage space used by the monitor server .

At process block the monitor server makes prediction regarding whether to monitor the agents. This prediction is made based upon parameters that can be set by the supervisor. For example the supervisor could instruct the monitor server to monitor negative events such as customer complaints workstation misuse poor attendance or other inappropriate behavior. In such an instance the monitor server would be configured to trigger recording of an agent s activities upon receipt of a prediction of negative behavior. It should be noted that the analysis of agent behavior can be further adapted to predict the time and or date at which a specific agent s workstation should be monitored. The operational scenario ends at terminal block .

At process block the monitor server predicts whether the agent s implicated by the analysis block should be monitored. If there is a decision not to monitor the agent s as determined at decision block the operational scenario ends at terminal block . However if the monitor determines that the agent s should be monitored in step the monitor begins collecting information from the agent workstation and records the information as shown in process block . The monitor records the information to the call records database . The operational scenario ends at terminal block .

At process block the collected information is analyzed by the monitor server. Thus the monitor server attempts to connect agent activity with behavior of the agent whereby future activities of the user can be predicted based on behavioral attributes connected to the agent. At process block the monitor can determine whether to monitor the agent s based upon the analysis of the agent s activities. As described above the decision regarding whether to monitor the agent s can be based on a number of different reasons each of which is intended to be included within the scope of the present disclosure. The operational scenario ends at terminal block .

At process block the collected information is analyzed by the monitor server. Analyzing the collected information the monitor server attempts to connect agent activity with behavior of the agent whereby future activities of the user can be predicted based on behavioral attributes connected to the agent. At process block the monitor can determine whether to monitor the agent s based upon the analysis of the agent s activities. As described above the decision regarding whether to monitor the agent s can be based on a number of different reasons each of which is intended to be included within the scope of the present disclosure.

As shown by decision block if the monitor server does not predict a monitored activity the operational scenario ends at terminal block . However if the monitor server predicts a monitored activity as determined in decision block the monitor server begins to collect an record the agent workstation activities in process block . The operational scenario ends at terminal block .

The systems and methods data may be stored in one or more data stores. The data stores can be of many different types of storage devices and programming constructs such as RAM ROM Flash memory programming data structures programming variables etc. It is noted that data structures describe formats for use in organizing and storing data in databases programs memory or other computer readable media for use by a computer program.

The systems and methods may be provided on many different types of computer readable media including computer storage mechanisms e.g. CD ROM diskette RAM flash memory computer hard drive etc. that contain instructions for use in execution by a processor to perform the methods operations and implement the systems described herein.

The computer components software modules functions and data structures described herein may be connected directly or indirectly to each other in order to allow the flow of data needed for their operations. It is also noted that a module or processor includes but is not limited to a unit of code that performs a software operation and can be implemented for example as a subroutine unit of code or as a software function unit of code or as an object as in an object oriented paradigm or as an applet or in a computer script language or as another type of computer code.

While this disclosure has been made with specific detail with reference to the present disclosure it should be understood that many variations and modifications may be effected without departing from the scope of the disclosure as described in the appended claims.

