---

title: Configurable shipping container
abstract: Shipping containers for porous masses may include a bottom lid having a rectangular lid bottom and four bottom rims that are each continuous with the lid bottom; a tray comprising a tray bottom and four tray sidewalls that are each continuous with the tray bottom defining an interior with an open top; and a top lid having a rectangular lid top and four top rims that are each continuous with the lid top, wherein the tray is configured to be placed on a bottom lid with the bottom rims surrounding a portion of the tray with a top lid placed over the top of the tray with the top rims surrounding a portion of the tray.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09359104&OS=09359104&RS=09359104
owner: Celanese Acetate LLC
number: 09359104
owner_city: Irving
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20151015
---
The present invention relates to shipping containers and in particular to systems and methods for providing a shipping container for multiple items that are both fragile and heavy.

Producing segmented filters for smoking devices generally involves utilizing filter rods having the filter segment composition cutting the filter rods to segments or an appropriate length and combining the segments in a desired order to achieve a segmented filter rod that can be used for attaching to smokeable substances like tobacco columns. Conventional filter rods for cigarettes typically consist of acetate cellulose are about 5 8 mm in diameter about 150 mm long and about 0.9 g or less in weight. Other filter rods for segmenting generally adhere to the dimensions of the convention filter rods so as to mitigate the need for changes to existing machinery.

In some instances filter rods may be produced at one location and shipped to a second typically a different manufacturer for assembling the segmented filters and in some instances the corresponding smoking devices.

Porous masses described herein can be incorporated into smoking device filters and have been shown to reduce and sometimes significantly reduce the concentration of contaminants or toxicants in a smoke stream. Porous masses generally include a plurality of binder particles and a plurality of active particles bound together at contact points which is described in more detail herein. In some instances porous masses may weigh about 2 to about 5 times more than a comparably sized conventional cellulose acetate filter rod which may depend on the diameter of the filter rods. Further porous masses can be fragile and prone to chipping denting cracking and the like due at least in part to the bound nature of the structure and the composition of the binder materials. As such shipping containers may in some embodiments have different strength and design parameters than conventional cellulose acetate filter rods shipping.

The present invention relates to shipping containers and in particular to systems and methods for providing a shipping container for multiple items that are both fragile and heavy.

In some embodiments the shipping containers described herein may advantageously have a structure that allows for the shipment of porous masses with mitigated risk for breaking cracking chipping or denting the porous masses.

Typically shipping containers or trays therein are loaded by mechanical arms or the like or workers by lifting and tipping the trays to allow the filter rods to fall into a hopper of the combining machine or other suitable machinery . Because of the increased weight of the porous mass rods the shipping containers described herein may comprise multiple trays that allow for the standard machinery to appropriately process.

As used herein the term tray refers to a container designed to contain a quantity of filter rods in an upright position. A tray is discussed herein as being generally a rectangular shape having a length width and height wherein the height is less than the length or width but may be provided in other forms or in other proportions. A shipping container may comprise one or more trays.

It should be noted that when about is provided herein in reference to a number in a numerical list the term about modifies each number of the numerical list. It should be noted that in some numerical listings of ranges some lower limits listed may be greater than some upper limits listed. One skilled in the art will recognize that the selected subset will require the selection of an upper limit in excess of the selected lower limit.

In some embodiments the lids may have a rectangular lid with four rims and dimensions sized to hold the tray or trays of the shipping container. In some embodiments a shipping container may comprise a bottom lid having a rectangular lid bottom and four bottom rims that are each continuous with the lid bottom a tray comprising a tray bottom and four tray sidewalls that are each continuous with the tray bottom defining an interior with an open top and a top lid having a rectangular lid top and four top rims that are each continuous with the lid top wherein the tray is configured to be placed on a bottom lid with the bottom rims surrounding a portion of the tray with a top lid placed over the top of the tray with the top rims surrounding a portion of the tray.

In some instances the bottom lid may be configured to have a flap similar to that of the tray and aligns with the tray flap. Such a flap may advantageously allow for opening the shipping container or tray in a traditional fashion without removing the bottom lid. Such flaps in some instances may be creased or hinged.

In some instances a shipping container may be configured to hold two or more trays. For example provides a photograph of an exemplary shipping container with two trays bottom lid engaged with trays and top lid not engaged with trays so as to provide a better view of trays .

In some embodiments a shipping container described herein may comprise a shipping container comprising a bottom lid having a rectangular lid bottom and four bottom rims that are each continuous with the lid bottom a plurality of trays each comprising a tray bottom and four tray sidewalls that are each continuous with the bottom defining an interior with an open top and a top lid having a rectangular lid top and four top rims that are each continuous with the lid top wherein the bottom lid is configured to accept the plurality of trays with the bottom rims surrounding a portion of the exposed tray sidewalls of the plurality of trays with a top lid placed over the top of the plurality of trays with the top rims surrounding a portion of the exposed tray sidewalls of the plurality of trays.

In some embodiments a shipping container described herein may comprise a shipping container comprising a top lid having a top rim a bottom lid having a bottom rim a first tray having a first length and a first width and a second tray having a second length and a second width wherein at least one of the second length and second width are selected such that an integer number of second trays has an overall dimension that is approximately equal to the equivalent dimension of the first tray wherein the bottom lid is configured to accept a single first tray or a plurality of second trays with the bottom rims surrounding a portion of the accepted trays and the top lid is configured to fit over the accepted trays with the top rims surrounding a portion of the accepted trays.

In some instances the tray may comprise a flap on the length or width of the tray. In some instances the bottom lid may comprise a flap corresponding to the flap of the tray or trays disposed therein.

The material of the components of the shipping container e.g. the trays the lids and any other reinforcing structure may independently be chosen to provide the necessary strength for shipping the porous mass lengths described herein. In some instances porous mass lengths in an amount to fill a tray shown in may be about 9 kg to about 15 kg depending on the composition of the porous mass rods. Correspondingly for a half tray shown in the porous mass lengths may be about 4.5 kg to about 7.5 kg.

Suitable materials may include but are not limited to cardboard e.g. 3 16 or greater plastic plastic mesh metal wood and the like and any combination thereof. In some preferred embodiments cardboard may be 6 16 thick. In some embodiments the cardboard may have a burst strength of about 200 pounds per square inch or greater. In some embodiments the cardboard may be multi ply. For example a cross section of a lid illustrated in shows a portion of a cardboard piece folded over on itself to provide for a 2 ply cardboard. In some instances the rims of the lids may advantageously be multi ply cardboard e.g. 2 ply 3 ply and so on so as to provide for reinforcement of tray sidewalls. By way of nonlimiting example a tray may be made of 3 16 cardboard with portions of the tray being 2 ply and the lids may be made of 6 16 cardboard.

In some embodiments the materials may include chemicals with specific properties e.g. fire retardants.

In some embodiments shipping containers described herein may have other configurations. In some embodiments a bottom lid and the tray may be a single piece.

In some embodiments shipping containers described herein may comprise a top lid and a tray without a bottom lid provided the materials of the top lid and the tray have sufficient strength to ship the porous mass lengths. In some embodiments the trays may be multi ply cardboard.

In some embodiments the trays described herein may have a height commensurate with the length of the porous mass rods described herein. By way of nonlimiting example a tray may have dimensions of about 26 in by about 14 in by about 4 in. By way of another nonlimiting example a tray may have dimensions of about 14 in by about 13 in by about 4 in.

Generally porous masses may comprise a plurality of binder particles and a plurality of active particles mechanically bound at a plurality of contact points. The contact points may be active particle binder contact points binder binder contact points active particle active particle contact points and any combination thereof. As used herein the terms mechanical bond mechanically bonded physical bond and the like refer to a physical connection that holds two particles at least partially together. Mechanical bonds may be rigid or flexible depending on the bonding material. Mechanical bonding may or may not involve chemical bonding. It should be understood that as used herein the terms particle and particulate may be used interchangeably and include all known shapes of materials including spherical and or ovular substantially spherical and or ovular discus and or platelet flake ligamental acicular fibrous polygonal such as cubic randomly shaped such as the shape of crushed rocks faceted such as the shape of crystals or any hybrid thereof. Nonlimiting examples of porous masses are described in detail in co pending applications PCT US2011 043264 PCT US2011 043268 PCT US2011 043269 and PCT US2011 043271 all filed on Jul. 7 2012 the entire disclosures of which are included herein by reference.

Generally porous masses may be formed from matrix materials. As used herein the term matrix material refers to the precursors e.g. binder particles and active particles used to form porous masses. In some embodiments the matrix material may comprise consist of or consist essentially of binder particles and active particles. In some embodiments the matrix material may comprise binder particles active particles and additives. Nonlimiting examples of suitable binder particles active particles and additives are provided in this disclosure.

Porous masses may be produced through a variety of methods. For example some embodiments may involve forming the matrix material e.g. the active particles and binder particles into a desired shape e.g. with a mold heating the matrix material to mechanically bond the matrix material together and finishing the porous masses e.g. cutting the porous masses to a desired length . Of the various processes steps involved in the production of porous masses heating may be one of the steps that limits high throughput manufacturing. Accordingly methods that employ rapid heating e.g. microwave optionally with a preheating step e.g. indirect heating or direct contact with heated gases may be preferred methods for enabling high throughput manufacturing of porous masses described herein.

The length of a porous mass or sections thereof may range from a lower limit of about 2 mm 3 mm 5 mm 10 mm 15 mm 20 mm 25 mm or 30 mm to an upper limit of about 150 mm 100 mm 50 mm 25 mm 15 mm or 10 mm and wherein the length may range from any lower limit to any upper limit and encompass any subset therebetween.

The circumference of a porous mass length a porous mass or sections thereof wrapped or otherwise may range from a lower limit of about 5 mm 6 mm 7 mm 8 mm 9 mm 10 mm 11 mm 12 mm 13 mm 14 mm 15 mm 16 mm 17 mm 18 mm 19 mm 20 mm 21 mm 22 mm 23 mm 24 mm 25 mm or 26 mm to an upper limit of about 60 mm 50 mm 40 mm 30 mm 20 mm 29 mm 28 mm 27 mm 26 mm 25 mm 24 mm 23 mm 22 mm 21 mm 20 mm 19 mm 18 mm 17 mm or 16 mm wherein the circumference may range from any lower limit to any upper limit and encompass any subset therebetween.

In some embodiments porous mass sections porous masses and or porous mass lengths wrapped or otherwise may have a void volume in the range of about 40 to about 90 . In some embodiments porous mass sections porous masses and or porous mass lengths wrapped or otherwise may have a void volume of about 60 to about 90 . In some embodiments porous mass sections porous masses and or porous mass lengths wrapped or otherwise may have a void volume of about 60 to about 85 . Void volume is the free space left after accounting for the space taken by the active particles.

In some embodiments porous mass sections porous masses and or porous mass lengths wrapped or otherwise may be effective at the removal of components from tobacco smoke for example those in the listing herein. Porous mass sections porous masses and or porous mass lengths wrapped or otherwise may be used to reduce the delivery of certain tobacco smoke components targeted by the World Health Organization Framework Convention on Tobacco Control WHO FCTC . By way of nonlimiting example a porous mass where activated carbon is used as the active particles can be used to reduce the delivery of certain tobacco smoke components to levels below the WHO FCTC recommendations. The components may in some embodiments include but not be limited to acetaldehyde acrolein benzene benzo a pyrene 1 3 butadiene and formaldehyde. Porous mass sections porous masses and or porous mass lengths wrapped or otherwise with activated carbon may reduce acetaldehydes in a smoke stream by about 3.0 to about 6.5 mm length of porous mass acrolein in a smoke stream by about 7.5 to about 12 mm length of porous mass benzene in a smoke stream by about 5.5 to about 8.0 mm length of porous mass benzo a pyrene in a smoke stream by about 9.0 to about 21.0 mm length of porous mass 1 3 butadiene in a smoke stream by about 1.5 to about 3.5 mm length of porous mass and formaldehyde in a smoke stream by about 9.0 to about 11.0 mm length of porous mass. In another example porous mass sections porous masses and or porous mass lengths wrapped or otherwise where an ion exchange resin is used as the active particles can be used to reduce the delivery of certain tobacco smoke components to below the WHO recommendations. In some embodiments porous mass sections porous masses and or porous mass lengths wrapped or otherwise having an ion exchange resin may reduce acetaldehydes in a smoke stream by about 5.0 to about 7.0 mm length of porous mass acrolein in a smoke stream by about 4.0 to about 6.5 mm length of porous mass and formaldehyde in a smoke stream by about 9.0 to about 11.0 mm length of porous mass. One of ordinary skill in the art should understand that the values reported here relative to the concentration of specific smoke stream components may vary by test protocol and tobacco blend. The reductions cited herein refer to carbonyl testing by a method similar to the CORESTA Recommended Method No. 74 Determination of Selected Carbonyls in Mainstream Cigarette Smoke by High Performance Liquid Chromatography using the Health Canada Intense Smoking Protocol. The sample cigarettes were prepared from a US commercial brand by manually replacing the standard cellulose acetate filter with a dual segmented filter consisting of porous mass segments and cellulose acetate segments. The length of the porous mass segment varied between 5 and 15 mm.

There may be any weight ratio of active particles to binder particles in the matrix material. In some embodiments the matrix material may comprise active particles in an amount ranging from a lower limit of about 1 wt 5 wt 10 wt 25 wt 40 wt 50 wt 60 wt or 75 wt of the matrix material to an upper limit of about 99 wt 95 wt 90 wt or 75 wt of the matrix material and wherein the amount of active particles can range from any lower limit to any upper limit and encompass any subset therebetween. In some embodiments the matrix material may comprise binder particles in an amount ranging from a lower limit of about 1 wt 5 wt 10 wt or 25 wt of the matrix material to an upper limit of about 99 wt 95 wt 90 wt 75 wt 60 wt 50 wt 40 wt or 25 wt of the matrix material and wherein the amount of binder particles can range from any lower limit to any upper limit and encompass any subset therebetween.

The active particles may be any material adapted to enhance smoke flowing thereover. Adapted to enhance smoke flowing thereover refers to any material that can remove reduce or add components to a smoke stream. The removal or reduction or addition may be selective. By way of example in the smoke stream from a cigarette compounds such as those shown below in the following listing may be selectively removed or reduced. This table is available from the U.S. FDA as a Draft Proposed Initial List of Harmful Potentially Harmful Constituents in Tobacco Products including Tobacco Smoke any abbreviations in the below listing are well known chemicals in the art. In some embodiments the active particle may reduce or remove at least one component selected from the listing of components in smoke below including any combination thereof. Smoke stream components may include but not be limited to acetaldehyde acetamide acetone acrolein acrylamide acrylonitrile aflatoxin B 1 4 aminobiphenyl 1 aminonaphthalene 2 aminonaphthalene ammonia ammonium salts anabasine anatabine 0 anisidine arsenic A a C benz a anthracene benz b fluoroanthene benz j aceanthrylene benz k fluoroanthene benzene benzo b furan benzo a pyrene benzo c phenanthrene beryllium 1 3 butadiene butyraldehyde cadmium caffeic acid carbon monoxide catechol chlorinated dioxins furans chromium chrysene cobalt coumarin a cresol crotonaldehyde cyclopenta c d pyrene dibenz a h acridine dibenz a j acridine dibenz a h anthracene dibenzo c g carbazole dibenzo a e pyrene dibenzo a h pyrene dibenzo a i pyrene dibenzo a l pyrene 2 6 dimethylaniline ethyl carbamate urethane ethylbenzene ethylene oxide eugenol formaldehyde furan glu P 1 glu P 2 hydrazine hydrogen cyanide hydroquinone indeno 1 2 3 cd pyrene IQ isoprene lead MeA a C mercury methyl ethyl ketone 5 methylchrysene 4 methylnitrosamino 1 3 pyridyl 1 butanone NNK 4 methylnitrosamino 1 3 pyridyl 1 butanol NNAL naphthalene nickel nicotine nitrate nitric oxide a nitrogen oxide nitrite nitrobenzene nitromethane 2 nitropropane N nitrosoanabasine NAB N nitrosodiethanolamine NDELA N nitrosodiethylamine N nitrosodimethylamine NDMA N nitrosoethylmethylamine N nitrosomorpholine NMOR N nitrosonornicotine NNN N nitrosopiperidine NPIP N nitrosopyrrolidine NPYR N nitrososarcosine NSAR phenol PhIP polonium 210 radio isotope propionaldehyde propylene oxide pyridine quinoline resorcinol selenium styrene tar 2 toluidine toluene Trp P 1 Trp P 2 uranium 235 radio isotope uranium 238 radio isotope vinyl acetate vinyl chloride and any combination thereof.

One example of an active particle is activated carbon or activated charcoal or active coal . The activated carbon may be low activity about 50 to about 75 CCladsorption or high activity about 75 to about 95 CCladsorption or a combination of both. In some embodiments the active carbon may be nano scaled carbon particle such as carbon nanotubes of any number of walls carbon nanohorns bamboo like carbon nanostructures fullerenes and fullerene aggregates and graphene including few layer graphene and oxidized graphene. Other examples of active particles may include but are not limited to ion exchange resins desiccants silicates molecular sieves silica gels activated alumina zeolites perlite sepiolite Fuller s Earth magnesium silicate metal oxides e.g. iron oxide iron oxide nanoparticles like about 12 nm FeO manganese oxide copper oxide and aluminum oxide gold platinum iodine pentoxide phosphorus pentoxide nanoparticles e.g. metal nanoparticles like gold and silver metal oxide nanoparticles like alumina magnetic paramagnetic and superparamagnetic nanoparticles like gadolinium oxide various crystal structures of iron oxide like hematite and magnetite gado nanotubes and endofullerenes like Gd C and core shell and onionated nanoparticles like gold and silver nanoshells onionated iron oxide and others nanoparticles or microparticles with an outer shell of any of said materials and any combination of the foregoing including activated carbon . Ion exchange resins include for example a polymer with a backbone such as styrene divinyl benzene DVB copolymer acrylates methacrylates phenol formaldehyde condensates and epichlorohydrin amine condensates and a plurality of electrically charged functional groups attached to the polymer backbone. In some embodiments the active particles are a combination of various active particles. In some embodiments the porous mass may comprise multiple active particles. In some embodiments an active particle may comprise at least one element selected from the group of active particles disclosed herein. It should be noted that element is being used as a general term to describe items in a list. In some embodiments the active particles are combined with at least one flavorant.

Suitable active particles may have at least one dimension of about less than one nanometer such as graphene to as large as a particle having a diameter of about 5000 microns. Active particles may range from a lower size limit in at least one dimension of about 0.1 nanometers 0.5 nanometers 1 nanometer 10 nanometers 100 nanometers 500 nanometers 1 micron 5 microns 10 microns 50 microns 100 microns 150 microns 200 microns or 250 microns. The active particles may range from an upper size limit in at least one dimension of about 5000 microns 2000 microns 1000 microns 900 microns 700 microns 500 microns 400 microns 300 microns 250 microns 200 microns 150 microns 100 microns 50 microns 10 microns or 500 nanometers. Any combination of lower limits and upper limits above may be suitable for use in the present invention wherein the selected maximum size is greater than the selected minimum size. In some embodiments the active particles may be a mixture of particle sizes ranging from the above lower and upper limits. In some embodiments the size of the active particles may be polymodal.

The binder particles may be any suitable thermoplastic binder particles. In one embodiment the binder particles exhibit virtually no flow at its melting temperature. This means a material that when heated to its melting temperature exhibits little to no polymer flow. Materials meeting these criteria include but are not limited to ultrahigh molecular weight polyethylene very high molecular weight polyethylene high molecular weight polyethylene and combinations thereof. In one embodiment the binder particles have a melt flow index MFI ASTM D1238 of less than or equal to about 3.5 g 10 min at 190 C. and 15 kg or about 0 3.5 g 10 min at 190 C. and 15 kg . In another embodiment the binder particles have a melt flow index MFI of less than or equal to about 2.0 g 10 min at 190 C. and 15 kg or about 0 2.0 g 10 min at 190 C. and 15 kg . One example of such a material is ultra high molecular weight polyethylene UHMWPE which has no polymer flow MFI of about 0 at 190 C. and 15 kg or an MFI of about 0 1.0 at 190 C. and 15 kg another material may be very high molecular weight polyethylene VHMWPE which may have MFIs in the range of for example about 1.0 2.0 g 10 min at 190 C. and 15 kg or high molecular weight polyethylene HMWPE which may have MFIs of for example about 2.0 3.5 g 10 min at 190 C. and 15 kg . In some embodiments it may be preferable to use a mixture of binder particles having different molecular weights and or different melt flow indexes.

In terms of molecular weight ultra high molecular weight polyethylene as used herein refers to polyethylene compositions with weight average molecular weight of at least about 3 10g mol. In some embodiments the molecular weight of the ultra high molecular weight polyethylene composition is between about 3 10g mol and about 30 10g mol or between about 3 10g mol and about 20 10g mol or between about 3 10g mol and about 10 10g mol or between about 3 10g mol and about 6 10g mol. Very high molecular weight polyethylene refers to polyethylene compositions with a weight average molecular weight of less than about 3 10g mol and more than about 1 10g mol. In some embodiments the molecular weight of the very high molecular weight polyethylene composition is between about 2 10g mol and less than about 3 10g mol. High molecular weight polyethylene refers to polyethylene compositions with weight average molecular weight of at least about 3 g mol to 1 10g mol. For purposes of the present specification the molecular weights referenced herein are determined in accordance with the Margolies equation Margolies molecular weight .

Suitable polyethylene materials are commercially available from several sources including GUR UHMWPE from Ticona Polymers LLC a division of Celanese Corporation of Dallas Tex. and DSM Netherland Braskem Brazil Beijing Factory No. 2 BAAF Shanghai Chemical and Qilu People s Republic of China Mitsui and Asahi Japan . Specifically GUR polymers may include GUR 2000 series 2105 2122 2122 5 2126 GUR 4000 series 4120 4130 4150 4170 4012 4122 5 4022 6 4050 3 4150 3 GUR 8000 series 8110 8020 GUR X series X143 X184 X168 X172 X192 .

One example of a suitable polyethylene material is that having an intrinsic viscosity in the range of about 5 dl g to about 30 dl g and a degree of crystallinity of about 80 or more as described in U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2008 0090081. Another example of a suitable polyethylene material is that having a molecular weight in the range of about 300 000 g mol to about 2 000 000 g mol as determined by ASTM D 4020 an average particle size D50 between about 300 m and about 1500 m and a bulk density between about 0.25 g ml and about 0.5 g ml as described in International Application No. PCT US2011 034947 filed May 3 2011.

The binder particles may assume any shape. Such shapes include spherical hyperion asteroidal chrondular or interplanetary dust like granulated potato irregular or combinations thereof. In preferred embodiments the binder particles suitable for use in the present invention are non fibrous. In some embodiments the binder particles are in the form of a powder pellet or particulate. In some embodiments the binder particles are a combination of various binder particles.

In some embodiments the binder particles may range from a lower size limit in at least one dimension of about 0.1 nanometers 0.5 nanometers 1 nanometer 10 nanometers 100 nanometers 500 nanometers 1 micron 5 microns 10 microns 50 microns 100 microns 150 microns 200 microns and 250 microns. The binder particles may range from an upper size limit in at least one dimension of about 5000 microns 2000 microns 1000 microns 900 microns 700 microns 500 microns 400 microns 300 microns 250 microns 200 microns 150 microns 100 microns 50 microns 10 microns and 500 nanometers. Any combination of lower limits and upper limits above may be suitable for use in the present invention wherein the selected maximum size is greater than the selected minimum size. In some embodiments the binder particles may be a mixture of particle sizes ranging from the above lower and upper limits. In some embodiments smaller diameter particles may be advantageous in faster heating for binding of the binder particles together which may be especially useful in high throughput processes for producing porous masses described herein.

While the ratio of binder particle size to active particle size can include any iteration as dictated by the size ranges for each described herein specific size ratios may be advantageous for specific applications and or products. By way of nonlimiting example in smoking device filters the sizes of the active particles and binder particles should be such that the EPD allows for drawing fluids through the porous mass. In some embodiments the ratio of binder particle size to active particle size may range from about 10 1 to about 1 10 or more preferably range from about 1 1.5 to about 1 4.

Additionally the binder particles may have a bulk density in the range of about 0.10 g cm3 to about 0.55 g cm3. In another embodiment the bulk density may be in the range of about 0.17 g cm3 to about 0.50 g cm3. In yet another embodiment the bulk density may be in the range of about 0.20 g cm3 to about 0.47 g cm3.

In addition to the foregoing binder particles other conventional thermoplastics may be used as binder particles. Such thermoplastics include but are not limited to polyolefins polyesters polyamides or nylons polyacrylics polystyrenes polyvinyls polytetrafluoroethylene PTFE polyether ether ketone PEEK any copolymer thereof any derivative thereof and any combination thereof. Non fibrous plasticized cellulose derivatives may also be suitable for use as binder particles in the present invention. Examples of suitable polyolefins include but are not limited to polyethylene polypropylene polybutylene polymethylpentene any copolymer thereof any derivative thereof any combination thereof and the like. Examples of suitable polyethylenes further include low density polyethylene linear low density polyethylene high density polyethylene any copolymer thereof any derivative thereof any combination thereof and the like. Examples of suitable polyesters include polyethylene terephthalate polybutylene terephthalate polycyclohexylene dimethylene terephthalate polytrimethylene terephthalate any copolymer thereof any derivative thereof any combination thereof and the like. Examples of suitable polyacrylics include but are not limited to polymethyl methacrylate any copolymer thereof any derivative thereof any combination thereof and the like. Examples of suitable polystyrenes include but are not limited to polystyrene acrylonitrile butadiene styrene styrene acrylonitrile styrene butadiene styrene maleic anhydride any copolymer thereof any derivative thereof any combination thereof and the like. Examples of suitable polyvinyls include but are not limited to ethylene vinyl acetate ethylene vinyl alcohol polyvinyl chloride any copolymer thereof any derivative thereof any combination thereof and the like. Examples of suitable cellulosics include but are not limited to cellulose acetate cellulose acetate butyrate plasticized cellulosics cellulose propionate ethyl cellulose any copolymer thereof any derivative thereof any combination thereof and the like. In some embodiments a binder particle may be any copolymer any derivative and any combination of the above listed binders.

In some embodiments matrix materials and or porous masses may comprise active particles binder particles and additives. In some embodiments the matrix material or porous masses may comprise additives in an amount ranging from a lower limit of about 0.01 wt 0.05 wt 0.1 wt 1 wt 5 wt or 10 wt of the matrix material or porous masses to an upper limit of about 25 wt 15 wt 10 wt 5 wt or 1 wt of the matrix material or porous masses and wherein the amount of additives can range from any lower limit to any upper limit and encompass any subset therebetween. It should be noted that porous masses as referenced herein include porous mass lengths porous masses and porous mass sections wrapped or otherwise .

Suitable additives may include but not be limited to active compounds ionic resins zeolites nanoparticles microwave enhancement additives ceramic particles glass beads softening agents plasticizers pigments dyes flavorants aromas controlled release vesicles adhesives tackifiers surface modification agents vitamins peroxides biocides antifungals antimicrobials antistatic agents flame retardants degradation agents and any combination thereof.

Each of embodiments A B and C may have one or more of the following additional elements in any combination Element 1 the top lid and the bottom lid are each formed from a single piece of cardboard material having a burst strength of about 200 pounds per square inch or greater Element 2 the tray or at least one of the trays is formed from a single piece of cardboard material having a about 200 pounds per square inch or greater Element 3 at least one of the four tray sidewalls is a flap Element 4 at least one of the bottom rims is a flap Element 5 the top lid and the bottom lid are configured to touch when placed on the tray s Element 6 the top lid the bottom lid the tray s or any combination thereof are formed at least in part by a plastic material and Element 7 the top lid the bottom lid the tray s or any combination thereof are formed at least in part by a 6 16 cardboard.

By way of non limiting example exemplary combinations independently applicable to A B and C include Element 3 in combination with Element 4 Elements 3 4 and 7 in combination Element 3 in combination with Element 7 Element 3 in combination with Element 6 Element 5 in combination with the foregoing any of the combinations and so on.

Therefore the present invention is well adapted to attain the ends and advantages mentioned as well as those that are inherent therein. The particular embodiments disclosed above are illustrative only as the present invention may be modified and practiced in different but equivalent manners apparent to those skilled in the art having the benefit of the teachings herein. Furthermore no limitations are intended to the details of construction or design herein shown other than as described in the claims below. It is therefore evident that the particular illustrative embodiments disclosed above may be altered combined or modified and all such variations are considered within the scope and spirit of the present invention. The invention illustratively disclosed herein suitably may be practiced in the absence of any element that is not specifically disclosed herein and or any optional element disclosed herein.

While compositions and methods are described in terms of comprising containing or including various components or steps the compositions and methods can also consist essentially of or consist of the various components and steps. All numbers and ranges disclosed above may vary by some amount. Whenever a numerical range with a lower limit and an upper limit is disclosed any number and any included range falling within the range is specifically disclosed. In particular every range of values of the form from about a to about b or equivalently from approximately a to b or equivalently from approximately a b disclosed herein is to be understood to set forth every number and range encompassed within the broader range of values. Also the terms in the claims have their plain ordinary meaning unless otherwise explicitly and clearly defined by the patentee. Moreover the indefinite articles a or an as used in the claims are defined herein to mean one or more than one of the element that it introduces. If there is any conflict in the usages of a word or term in this specification and one or more patent or other documents that may be incorporated herein by reference the definitions that are consistent with this specification should be adopted.

