---

title: Vertical III-nitride thin-film power diode
abstract: A vertical III-nitride thin-film power diode can hold off high voltages (kV's) when operated under reverse bias. The III-nitride device layers can be grown on a wider bandgap template layer and growth substrate, which can be removed by laser lift-off of the epitaxial device layers grown thereon.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09595616&OS=09595616&RS=09595616
owner: Sandia Corporation
number: 09595616
owner_city: Albuquerque
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20151202
---
This invention was made with Government support under contract no. DE AC04 94AL85000 awarded by the U. S. Department of Energy to Sandia Corporation. The Government has certain rights in the invention.

The present invention relates to wide bandgap semiconductor power electronics and in particular to a vertical III nitride thin film power diode.

Wide bandgap WBG semiconductor power electronics PE constitute an emerging new set of technologies for the switching and conversion of electrical power which collectively is poised to transform US and world energy economics. WBG PE will accelerate the electrification of transportation the adoption of efficient building technologies and the flexible integration of renewable energy sources for a responsive smart grid. While not yet fully developed WBG power device performance already far exceeds that of the 50 year old incumbent silicon Si technology. Replacing Si based PE with WBG based PE can reduce losses significantly while also reducing size weight and cooling requirements.

As the name implies a wide bandgap semiconductor is one having a large bandgap energy. Typically semiconductors with bandgap energies larger than 2 eV are said to be wide bandgap. The AlN GaN InN system i.e. AlGaN semiconductors of WBG semiconductors has been extensively studied for fabricating light emitting devices for wavelengths shorter than green. There are many potential applications of nitride semiconductor power electronic devices because of their high breakdown electric field and electron drift velocity at high electric fields. These characteristics of high voltage and high carrier density are particularly effective in enabling the fabrication of smaller devices delivering high output power at high frequencies.

The present invention is directed to a vertical III nitride thin film power diode and a method for fabricating the power diode. The vertical III nitride thin film power diode comprises a bottom contact layer of high doped n type epitaxial AlGaN semiconductor a drift layer of low doped n type epitaxial AlGaN semiconductor on the topside of the bottom contact layer and a top contact layer on the topside of the drift layer. The vertical AlGaN thin film power diode can hold off high voltages kV s when operated under reverse bias.

The III nitride device layers can be grown on a wider bandgap growth substrate and or template layer such as AlN and AlO. The template and growth substrate cannot conduct electricity so they can be removed to enable vertical device operation. The removal can comprise bonding the topside of the device layers to a conductive host substrate and then using a high fluence laser to lift off the device layers from the non conductive template and substrate.

In is shown a vertical thin film III nitride power diode comprising epitaxial III nitride thin film layers. The diode structure comprises a low doped n type drift layer sandwiched between a top contact and a high doped n type bottom layer . The top contact can comprise an ohmic contact to a high doped p type top layer as shown or a Schottky contact not shown on the drift layer . The structure can further comprise a dielectric layer outside the ohmic contact or Schottky contact to help limit the electric field at the surface of the diode. The diode can further comprise an edge termination structure comprising guard rings or junction termination extensions to avoid edge and surface breakdown. The structure can further comprise a bottom ohmic contact to the high doped n type bottom layer . A host substrate can be bonded with bond metals and to the top contact .

The epitaxial III nitride device layers and can comprise AlGaN semiconductors. The doping concentration of the intrinsic drift layer can be less than about 1 10 cm. For example the dopant can be Si. The drift layer is preferably greater than about 4 m thick. For example the high doped p type top layer can comprise p type AlGaN or GaN. For example the ohmic contact can be Ni Pd or Pt. Alternatively if a p type top layer is not used the top contact can be a Schottky contact formed from Ni Pd Pt Mo Rh Au Ru or W directly on the intrinsic drift layer . For example the dielectric layer can comprise SiN SiO SiON or AlO. For example the host substrate can comprise CuW or GaAs. For example the bond metal and can be a bilayer of metals that form a low melting eutectic such as InPd. For example the bottom ohmic contact can comprise Ti or Al.

During operation the intrinsic drift layer is flooded with charge carriers injected from the highly doped p and n layers i.e. anode and cathode . In forward bias the diode will conduct current when the injected electrons and holes reach an equilibrium point. Due to this high level injection due in turn to the depletion process the electric field extends deeply into the drift layer. Because of the low doping in the intrinsic drift layer most of the potential will drop across this region. Under reverse bias the avalanche breakdown voltage can typically be significantly greater than 1 kilovolt.

Fabrication steps are then performed on the top side of the device as shown in . If a p type top layer is used then a p type ohmic contact as shown that is Ni Pd or Pt based can be deposited. If a p type top layer is not used then a Schottky contact can be formed on the drift layer using high work function metals such as Ni Pd Pt Mo Rh Au Ru and W. The rest of the p side processing can comprise creating an edge termination structure e.g. i AlGaN outside of the metal ohmic contact comprising guard ring or junction termination extension structures trenching the wafer into smaller device areas and larger device areas covering the uncontacted areas with a dielectric such as SiN or SiO and finally covering the device wafer with a bond metal such as InPd. The device wafer is then bonded to a host substrate e.g. GaAs also coated with the bond metal. The device wafer and host wafer are brought into contact and then the temperature is raised to melt the bond metal and attach the host substrate to the device wafer. The host wafer needs to match the coefficient of thermal expansion CTE of the device wafer. For example if a sapphire AlO device substrate is used as shown then appropriate host substrates can be CuW or GaAs.

The backside of the wafer is then exposed to a high fluence laser as shown in in a step and repeat manner with a defined exposure area such as 1 mm 1 mm as shown in . This trenching of the epitaxial device layers prevents these layers from cracking during laser separation from attached adjacent material. If the epitaxial layers have an Al composition of 0 60 then a 248 nm excimer laser can be used for laser separation. If the Al composition is higher 60 then a shorter wavelength 193 nm excimer laser can be used. Typical laser fluences are 0.5 1.5 J cm. The energy is absorbed in the AlGaN device layers and the fast heating and slight differences in the coefficients of thermal expansion of the layers cause the device layers to separate or lift off from the template layer and growth substrate as shown in . The bond to the host substrate prevents cracks in the device layers.

An example of AlGaN layers separated from the growth substrate and template layers is shown in . The AlGaN structure is trenched and then bonded to a GaAs host using Pd In as a bonding metal. The wafer is then subject to a 1 J cmlaser exposure at 248 nm through the sapphire growth substrate. The sapphire substrate and AlN template layers are separated from the AlGaN layers by lift off. After removal of the substrate and template layer an ohmic contact e.g. Ti or Al can be formed on the exposed high doped n type bottom layer. This can be accomplished by patterning a metal layer right after laser lift off or first preparing the surface by wet chemical plasma etching and chemo mechanical polishing. A schematic illustration of the completed device is shown in .

The wide bandgap AlGaN semiconductor material and the vertical device processing enable power diodes that can hold off high voltages under reverse bias. In an ideal diode the voltage across the end terminals of the diode is zero regardless of the current when forward biased. Conversely the leakage current is zero regardless of the voltage when reverse biased. An example of a current vs voltage characteristic of a high power diode when reverse biased is shown in . Under reverse voltage the avalanche breakdown is 2.5 kV meaning that this diode can hold of voltages of 2.5 kV or less.

The present invention has been described as a vertical III nitride thin film power diode. It will be understood that the above description is merely illustrative of the applications of the principles of the present invention the scope of which is to be determined by the claims viewed in light of the specification. Other variants and modifications of the invention will be apparent to those of skill in the art.

