---

title: Dynamic remote packet capture
abstract: A device may be configured to receive information regarding one or more ports associated with a routing device; output, to the routing device, filter information associated with at least a particular port, of the one or more ports associated with the routing device, the filter information specifying one or more conditions associated with traffic of interest; receive, from the routing device, and based on the outputted filter information, information regarding traffic of interest received or sent by the routing device via the particular port, the traffic of interest being less than or equal to all traffic received or sent by the routing device via the particular port; and store or output a representation of at least a portion of the received information regarding the traffic of interest.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09350630&OS=09350630&RS=09350630
owner: Juniper Networks, Inc.
number: 09350630
owner_city: Sunnyvale
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150930
---
This application continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 529 418 filed Oct. 31 2014 now U.S. Pat. No. 9 178 780 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 535 038 filed Jun. 27 2012 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 879 558 the entire disclosures of which are incorporated herein by reference.

Networks often include routing devices such as routers and or switches that aid in directing vast amounts of traffic from multiple sources to multiple destinations. Traffic analysis devices may be used to analyze traffic that is handled by routers and or switches. Some or all of the analyzed traffic may be of interest such as traffic that is directed to a particular destination traffic that arrived from a particular source etc. A traffic analysis device may receive a copy of traffic handled by a particular routing device e.g. all traffic handled by the routing device all traffic associated with a particular interface of the routing device etc. and may identify traffic of interest out of the received copy of traffic.

According to some implementations a device may be configured to receive information regarding one or more ports associated with a routing device output to the routing device filter information associated with at least a particular port of the one or more ports associated with the routing device the filter information specifying one or more conditions associated with traffic of interest receive from the routing device and based on the outputted filter information information regarding traffic of interest received or sent by the routing device via the particular port the traffic of interest being less than or equal to all traffic received or sent by the routing device via the particular port and store or output a representation of at least a portion of the received information regarding the traffic of interest.

The following detailed description refers to the accompanying drawings. The same reference numbers in different drawings may identify the same or similar elements.

A system and or method according to one or more implementations described herein may allow a traffic analysis device to analyze portions of traffic e.g. traffic of interest handled by a routing device on a network. According to some implementations herein the traffic analysis device may analyze portions of the traffic handled by the routing device without necessitating the routing device to send additional traffic to the traffic analysis device e.g. traffic handled by the routing device that is not traffic of interest . That is instead of providing a copy of extraneous traffic that is not traffic of interest e.g. all traffic handled by the routing device all traffic received and or transmitted at a particular interface of the routing device etc. the routing device may provide a copy of only the traffic of interest to the traffic analysis device.

Furthermore a system and or method according to one or more implementations described herein may allow a traffic analysis device to perform one or more of the above described techniques using a network analysis software tool that has the capability to analyze traffic at local ports e.g. only ports that are physically present on a device that is running the network analysis software tool but not ports of other devices . Such network analysis software tools may include currently available network software tools such as for example Wireshark Tcpdump Snort and or any other network analysis software tool. As described in further detail below a traffic analysis device according to one or more implementations may implement an application programming interface API in a manner that allows commands that are issued by local network analysis software tools and relate to local traffic analysis to cause an external routing device to forward traffic to the traffic analysis device.

Traffic analysis device may present e.g. via one or more display devices associated with traffic analysis device user interface . In some implementations user interface may be associated with a currently available network analysis software tool such as Wireshark Tcpdump Snort and or any other network analysis software tool. User interface may allow for specification of traffic of interest. For example user interface may allow for the creation and or configuration of one or more filters. These filters may specify for example ports to monitor e.g. one or more ports associated with routing device and or traffic analysis device and or attributes associated with the traffic of interest e.g. source address destination address protocol type and or any other attribute . In some implementations the ports shown in user interface may be presented as local ports e.g. ports that are local to traffic analysis device without indicating that some ports may be associated with other devices such as routing device . As shown in traffic that is handled by port and has a destination IP address of 1.2.3.4 may be identified as traffic of interest.

Traffic analysis device may indicate to routing device that traffic that is handled by port and has a destination IP address of 1.2.3.4 is traffic of interest. For example the network analysis software tool which is running on traffic analysis device may issue a command to create a filter based on traffic that is handled by port and has a destination IP address of 1.2.3.4. In some implementations this command may be a command associated with generating a filter at a local port e.g. a port that is physically present at a device on which the network analysis software tool is running .

In some implementations traffic analysis device may be associated with a currently available API such as Berkeley Software Distribution Packet Filters BPF Packet Capture Library libpcap and or any other API which may include an instruction for creating a filter at a particular port. Traffic analysis device may be associated with an implementation of this instruction for creating a filter at a particular port which may cause traffic analysis device to issue a command and or a request to routing device to create a filter at the particular port when the network analysis software tool issues a command to create a filter. The instruction according to an implementation of the API may include a translation of the command issued by the network analysis software tool to a command associated with routing device . For instance traffic analysis device may store and or access one or more software libraries e.g. one or more dynamic libraries that include information regarding commands associated with routing device in order to translate command issued by the network analysis software tool. By utilizing such a library e.g. a dynamic library traffic analysis device may be capable of translating commands issued by network analysis software tools to a variety of different types of routing devices without recompiling the implementation of the API.

The instruction for creating a filter at the particular port according to the implementation of the API may be an instruction that includes any protocol that may be used for discovering ports and or installing filters such as OpenFlow one or more proprietary protocols and or any other such protocol. In this sense some implementations may allow currently existing network analysis software tools and or APIs to be used in conjunction with the techniques described herein.

As shown in routing device may forward a copy of filtered traffic that is handled by port and has a destination IP address of 1.2.3.4 associated with port to traffic analysis device . That is while port may handle traffic with several different destination addresses routing device may forward a copy of only some of the traffic handled by port i.e. only the traffic that has a destination IP address of 1.2.3.4 . Thus in some implementations routing device may forgo forwarding a copy of traffic that is not associated with the filter e.g. traffic that is associated with ports traffic associated with port that does not have a destination IP address of 1.2.3.4 etc. to traffic analysis device .

Traffic analysis device may present via a display device associated with traffic analysis device user interface . User interface may output information regarding the filtered traffic received from routing device e.g. traffic associated with port of routing device which has a destination IP address of 1.2.3.4 . The displayed information may be any information about the traffic such as a time associated with the traffic information identifying a source of the traffic information identifying a destination of the traffic i.e. an IP address of 1.2.3.4 in this example a protocol associated with the traffic content of a payload associated with the traffic e.g. the type of traffic such as video traffic voice traffic text traffic etc. header information associated with the traffic and or any other information regarding the traffic.

By forgoing forwarding traffic in addition to the traffic of interest to a network analysis device some implementations may eliminate the need for high bandwidth connections between a routing device and a network analysis device. Such high bandwidth connections may be costly as high speed interfaces and or cables may be scarce and or expensive. Furthermore a system according to some implementations may consume less network bandwidth than implementations that forward traffic in addition to traffic of interest. Additionally a network analysis device according to some implementations described herein may expend less processing resources than a network analysis device that receives additional traffic. Thus a network analysis device according to some implementations described herein may include less costly processing devices and or may process more traffic of interest than network analysis devices that receive additional traffic.

Routing device may include one or more devices that receive and or output traffic such as network traffic. Routing device may include a router a switch a hub or any other type of device that receives and forwards traffic. In some implementations routing device may include an edge router e.g. may route data between multiple networks a core router e.g. a router that routes data between devices within a network and or any other type of routing device. Routing device may perform one or more other functions such as network address translation NAT firewall protection access protection Internet connection sharing ICS and or any other function that is typically associated with routing devices.

Routing device may include one or more interfaces also referred to as ports. These ports may include physical ports e.g. Ethernet ports and or logical ports. In some implementations a particular port may for example be associated with one or more sources from which traffic is received and or one destinations to which traffic is forwarded.

As shown in routing device may be connected to client traffic analysis device and network . Routing device may for example route traffic from client via network to client and or from client to client . For example routing device may receive traffic analyze the traffic identify based on analyzing the traffic that a destination of the traffic is client and may forward some or all of the traffic to client . As further described below according to some implementations described herein routing device may be configured to provide information based on portions of sent and or received traffic e.g. a copy of traffic of interest to traffic analysis device .

Traffic analysis device may include one or more devices that indicate traffic of interest to router receive traffic of interest from router and or display information regarding traffic of interest. Traffic analysis device may be connected to routing device via a physical and or a logical connection e.g. a Generic Routing Encapsulation GRE tunnel an IP to IP tunnel a Multiprotocol Label Switching MPLS label switched path LSP and or any other type of stateless and or dynamically signaled tunnel . Traffic analysis device and routing device may signal each other using any protocol that is able to carry out the interactions described herein e.g. port discovery filter installation traffic forwarding etc. such as e.g. an OpenFlow protocol.

As described in further detail below traffic analysis device may receive filter information e.g. from a user associated with traffic analysis device . The filter information may specify one or more ports associated with routing device and or one or more conditions that are based on attributes of traffic e.g. destination address source address protocol etc. . Traffic analysis device may receive information based on traffic e.g. a copy of the traffic handled by routing device that meets the one or more conditions specified by the filter information.

Clients may include any type of device with communication capabilities. For example client may include a personal computer a mobile telephone a personal digital assistant PDA a tablet computer a laptop or any other type of device with communication capabilities.

Network may include any type of network such as a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN a telephone network e.g. the Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN or a cellular network an intranet the Internet or a combination of networks. Routing device and or clients may connect to network via wired and or wireless connections. In other words routing device and or clients may connect to network via a wired connection a wireless connection or a combination of a wired connection and a wireless connection. Further as mentioned above environment may include additional fewer and or different networks than shown in . For example in some implementations environment may include one or more networks between routing device and traffic analysis device may include one or more networks between routing device and client may include one or more additional networks between routing device and client etc.

Bus may include one or more communication paths that permit communication among the components of device . Processor may include a processor microprocessor or processing logic that may interpret and execute instructions. Memory may include any type of volatile storage device that may store information and instructions for execution by processor and or any type of non volatile storage device that may store information for use by processor .

Input component may include a mechanism that permits an operator to input information to device such as a microphone a keyboard a keypad a button a switch etc. Output component may include a mechanism that outputs information to the operator such as a display a speaker one or more light emitting diodes LEDs etc.

Communication interface may include any mechanism that enables device to communicate with other devices and or systems. For example communication interface may include an Ethernet interface an optical interface a coaxial interface or the like. Communication interface may additionally or alternatively include a wireless communication device such as an infrared IR receiver a Bluetooth radio or the like. The wireless communication device may be coupled to an external device such as a headset a remote control a wireless keyboard etc.

Device may perform operations in response to processor executing software instructions stored in a computer readable medium such as memory . A computer readable medium may be defined as a non transitory memory device. A memory device may include space within a single physical memory device or spread across multiple physical memory devices. The software instructions may be read into memory from another computer readable medium or from another device. The software instructions stored in memory may cause processor to perform processes described herein. Alternatively hardwired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions to implement processes described herein. Thus implementations described herein are not limited to any specific combination of hardware circuitry and software.

Software portion may include software designed to control routing device . In general software portion may implement functions of routing device that are not time critical. The functions described as being performed by software portion may be implemented through for example one or more general purpose processors and one or more memories . Processor may include a processor microprocessor or processing logic that may interpret and execute instructions. Memory may include any type of volatile storage device that may store information and instructions for execution by processor and or any type of non volatile storage device that may store information for use by processor .

Hardware portion may include circuitry for efficiently processing traffic received by routing device . Hardware portion may include for example logic such as an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA and or a content addressable memory CAM . Hardware portion may receive incoming traffic e.g. data packets associated with the incoming traffic and may process the traffic based on for example information included in the traffic e.g. header information associated with the data packets .

Routing device may additionally include one or more input ports for receiving incoming traffic and one or more output ports for transmitting outgoing traffic. In some implementations a port may act as both or one of an input port or an output port . A port or may correspond to one or more links over which traffic may be transmitted and or received. For example a particular port may be an optical port into which an optical cable may be inserted. The optical cable may include a number of optical fibers each of which may correspond to a link between routing device and another network device.

Routing device may perform operations in response to processor executing software instructions stored in a computer readable medium such as memory . The software instructions may be read into memory from another computer readable medium or from another device. The software instructions stored in memory may cause processor to perform processes described herein. Alternatively hardwired circuitry such as hardware portion may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions to implement processes described herein. Thus implementations described herein are not limited to any specific combination of hardware circuitry and software.

Although routing device is shown as including software portion and hardware portion routing device may in some implementations be implemented entirely through hardware. Additionally routing device may include additional components fewer components different components or differently arranged components than those illustrated in .

Process may include requesting information identifying ports associated with a routing device block . For example traffic analysis device may request information identifying ports associated with routing device . In some implementations the request may be initiated by and or received from a network analysis software tool running on traffic analysis device . As mentioned above the network analysis software tool may be a tool that is capable of analyzing ports that are local to a device on which the network analysis software tool e.g. Wireshark Tcpdump Snort and or any other network analysis software tool . As also mentioned above the network analysis software tool may in some implementations not be capable of analyzing ports that are not local to a device on which the network analysis software tool. The request for the information identifying ports may include a function call from the network analysis software tool. This function call may in some examples be a function call associated with discovering local ports e.g. ports that are physically present on traffic analysis device .

As also mentioned above traffic analysis device may be associated with an implementation of one or more APIs e.g. libpcap BPF etc. . Traffic analysis device may request information identifying ports associated with routing device based on the function call from the network analysis software tool using for example the implementation of the API associated with traffic analysis device . For instance assuming that traffic analysis device is associated with libcap the request may be made via an implementation of a function specified by the libpcap API for discovering ports that can be used to capture traffic such as pcap findalldevs pcap if t alldevsp char errbuf . As also mentioned above this request may include a message according to one or more protocols which may be used for discovering ports on routing device such as OpenFlow one or more proprietary protocols and or any other such protocol.

Process may also include receiving information identifying ports associated with the routing device block . For example traffic analysis device may receive information identifying ports associated with routing device . As further described below this information may be identified and or generated by routing device in response to the request sent by traffic analysis device at block . The information identifying ports associated with routing device may in some implementations include information identifying all ports associated with routing device . In some implementations the information identifying ports associated with routing device may include information identifying fewer than all of the ports associated with routing device e.g. a set of ports that traffic analysis device is authorized to access .

Process may additionally include presenting information associated with the ports associated with the routing device block . For example traffic analysis device may present via a display device associated with traffic analysis device information identifying the ports associated with routing device . Referring to the example shown in traffic analysis device may present this information via a user interface such as user interface . As discussed above user interface may be associated with a network analysis software tool that may be used to configure port filters and or monitor traffic associated with selected ports.

Process may further include receiving filter information associated with a particular port block . For example traffic analysis device may receive information specifying a filter associated with a particular port associated with routing device . In some implementations traffic analysis device may receive this information via the above mentioned software analysis tool. For example a user may specify filter information using user interface . As discussed above the filter information may indicate conditions associated with traffic of interest. For instance assume that a user is interested in traffic handled by a particular port of routing device which is associated with a particular source address. In this situation the user may provide filter information to traffic analysis device specifying a condition based on the particular source address.

In some implementations traffic analysis device may generate a filter based on the filter information. For example assuming that traffic analysis device is associated with a libpcap API traffic analysis device may implement a function of the API that is associated with generating a filter e.g. a BPF filter based on the received filter information such as pcap compile pcap t p struct bpf program fp char str int optimize bpf u int32 netmask .

As another example assume that a user is interested in traffic handled by a particular port of routing device which is associated with a particular protocol. In this situation the user may provide filter information to traffic analysis device specifying a condition based on the particular protocol. As mentioned above other example conditions may include e.g. traffic associated with a particular source address and or traffic associated with a particular destination address. In some implementations the filter information may include multiple conditions e.g. traffic that is associated with a particular source address and a particular protocol traffic that is associated with a particular source address and a particular destination address traffic that is associated with a particular destination address and a particular protocol traffic that is associated with a particular source address a particular destination address and a particular protocol etc. .

Process may also include outputting the filter information to the routing device block . For example traffic analysis device may output the filter information received at block to routing device . For instance in some implementations traffic analysis device may output information identifying the conditions associated with the filter information. In some implementations traffic analysis device may output a filter that was generated based on the filter information. The filter information outputted at block may in some implementations be received from a network analysis software tool running on traffic analysis device .

As mentioned above traffic analysis device may be associated with an implementation of one or more APIs e.g. libpcap BPF etc. . When outputting the filter information traffic analysis device may output the filter information according to one or more function calls of the API that is associated with traffic analysis device . For example assuming that routing device and traffic analysis device are associated with a libpcap API outputting the filter information may include performing a function that causes routing device to provide information regarding traffic associated with a particular port such as pcap t pcap open live char device int snaplen int promisc int to ms char ebuf . As also mentioned above this filter information may be associated with a message according to one or more protocols which may be used for providing filter information to routing device such as OpenFlow one or more proprietary protocols and or any other such protocol.

As also mentioned above outputting the filter information may include outputting a generated filter to routing device . For instance traffic analysis device may output the filter mentioned above with respect to block . In some implementations traffic analysis device may implement a function associated with installing the filter to routing device . In other words the function may cause routing device to store information identifying conditions associated with traffic of interest. Assuming that traffic analysis device implements a libpcap API such a function may include for example pcap setfilter pcap t p struct bpf program fp . In some implementations outputting the filter information may include outputting an instruction to forward a copy of traffic of interest to traffic analysis device .

Process may additionally include receiving information regarding traffic associated with the particular port based on the filter block . For example traffic analysis device may receive information regarding traffic of interest from routing device e.g. information regarding the traffic of interest but not all of the traffic handled by the particular port of routing device . As further described below routing device may handle traffic via the particular port of which a portion may be traffic of interest i.e. match the condition s specified by the filter information outputted at block . Traffic analysis device may receive information regarding this traffic of interest e.g. information regarding this traffic of interest but not other traffic handled by the particular port of routing device . For instance traffic analysis device may receive a copy of the traffic of interest from routing device .

Process may further include outputting information regarding the received traffic block . For example traffic analysis device may output via a display device associated with traffic analysis device information regarding the information received at block . Referring to the example shown in traffic analysis device may output this information via a user interface such as user interface . The information presented via user interface may include any information regarding the traffic of interest such as header information and or any other information. For example the information presented via user interface may include a time that the traffic was received and or sent by routing device a source address associated with the traffic a destination address associated with the traffic a protocol associated with the traffic information from a payload associated with the traffic and or any other information regarding the traffic. Additionally or alternatively traffic analysis device may store information regarding the traffic of interest in for example a storage device.

Process may include receiving a request for information identifying ports associated with a routing device block . For example routing device may receive a request from traffic analysis device . As discussed above with respect to this request may include a function call associated with an API implemented by traffic analysis device such as libpcap.

Process may also include identifying ports accessible to the requesting device block . In some implementations routing device may use one or more authentication techniques to identifying ports accessible to the requesting device. For example routing device may identify ports associated with routing device that are accessible to traffic analysis device . In some implementations routing device may compare an identity of traffic analysis device to a list that stores information associating ports of routing device with devices such as with traffic analysis device . In some implementations traffic analysis device may be associated with a particular routing instance in which a particular set of ports of routing device are accessible by traffic analysis device . In some implementations routing device may perform one or more other authentication techniques in order to identify ports of routing device that are accessible to traffic analysis device .

Process may also include outputting information identifying ports associated with the routing device block . For example routing device may output information to traffic analysis device regarding the ports identified at block .

Process may further include receiving filter information associated with a particular port block . For example routing device may receive filter information associated with a particular port from traffic analysis device . As discussed above with respect to this filter information may include a generated filter. Additionally or alternatively routing device may generate a filter based on the received filter information. Routing device may install the filter e.g. store information regarding conditions and the particular port associated with the filter . In some implementations routing device may install the filter in a kernel memory space of an operating system associated with routing device .

By installing the filter in the kernel memory space routing device may filter the traffic more efficiently e.g. using less processing resources than if the filter were installed in user memory space of the operating system. Furthermore by installing the filter in kernel memory space of routing device instead of in user memory space of an operating system associated with traffic analysis device some implementations may avoid expending resources e.g. processing resources and or memory resources of traffic analysis device .

Process may also include identifying traffic associated with the particular port block . For example routing device may handle e.g. send and or receive traffic via the particular port. Process may additionally include identifying traffic of interest based on the filter information associated with the particular port block . For example some or all of the traffic handled at block may be traffic of interest e.g. traffic that meets one or more conditions associated with the filter . As mentioned above the traffic of interest may be only a relatively small portion of the traffic handled by routing device via the particular port e.g. 50 10 1 0.1 less than 0.1 etc. .

Process may further include outputting information regarding the traffic of interest block . For example routing device may generate a copy of the traffic of interest identified at block and may forward the copy of the traffic to traffic analysis device . When outputting information regarding the traffic of interest routing device may forgo forwarding other traffic handled by routing device e.g. other traffic associated with the particular port which is not traffic of interest to traffic analysis device . In this sense in some implementations when outputting information regarding the traffic of interest routing device may forward only traffic of interest to traffic analysis device without forwarding other traffic that is not traffic of interest to traffic analysis device . Routing device may further forward the traffic as normal that is forwarding the copy of the traffic of interest may otherwise have no impact on the functionality of routing device .

In some implementations when outputting information regarding the traffic of interest at block routing device may additionally or alternatively output metadata regarding the traffic of interest e.g. information regarding the traffic of interest which is not itself extracted from the traffic of interest . Such metadata may include for example an original port on routing device at which the traffic was received a routing instance in which the traffic was received a high precision time stamp as recorded by routing device and or any other information such as other contextual information associated with the traffic of interest.

In some implementations when outputting the metadata regarding the traffic of interest routing device may add additional header information based on the metadata when forwarding the traffic of interest to traffic analysis device . For instance as shown in the example illustrated in assume that routing device and traffic analysis device communicate through a tunnel such as tunnel . In this example routing device may forward the information regarding the traffic of interest via tunnel . The forwarded information may be sent as several tunnel packets such as tunnel packets referred to herein individually as tunnel packet and collectively as tunnel packets and or any quantity of tunnel packets e.g. one tunnel packet 100 tunnel packets 100 000 tunnel packets greater than 100 000 tunnel packets etc. . Each tunnel packet may include a portion of the forwarded information regarding the traffic of interest.

As shown in an example tunnel packet may include for instance tunnel header metadata header and payload . Tunnel header may include for instance information that facilitates the communication between routing device and traffic analysis device . Metadata header may include in some implementations metadata regarding traffic of interest e.g. metadata regarding the traffic of interest forwarded as payload . Payload may include for instance some or all of the traffic of interest forwarded from routing device to traffic analysis device . In some implementations tunnel header may include metadata in lieu of or in addition to metadata header including metadata.

A system and or method described herein may allow a traffic analysis device to analyze portions of traffic e.g. traffic of interest handled by a routing device on a network. According to some implementations herein the traffic analysis device may analyze portions of the traffic handled by the routing device without necessitating the routing device to send additional traffic to the traffic analysis device e.g. traffic handled by the routing device that is not traffic of interest . That is instead of providing a copy of extraneous traffic that is not traffic of interest e.g. all traffic handled by the routing device all traffic received and or transmitted at a particular interface of the routing device etc. the routing device may provide a copy of only the traffic of interest to the traffic analysis device. As further described above such techniques may be applied in some implementations using network analysis software tools that are designed to analyze local network traffic.

The foregoing description provides illustration and description but is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the implementations to the precise form disclosed. Modifications and variations are possible in light of the above description or may be acquired from practice of the implementations. For example while series of blocks have been described with regard to the order of the blocks may be modified in other implementations. Further non dependent blocks may be performed in parallel. Furthermore in some implementations the processes described in these figures may include fewer additional or different blocks.

It will be apparent that systems and methods as described above may be implemented in many different forms of software firmware and hardware in the implementations illustrated in the figures. The actual software code or specialized control hardware used to implement these systems and methods is not limiting of the implementations. Thus the operation and behavior of the systems and methods were described without reference to the specific software code it being understood that software and control hardware can be designed to implement the systems and methods based on the description herein.

Even though particular combinations of features are recited in the claims and or disclosed in the specification these combinations are not intended to limit the disclosure of the possible implementations. In fact many of these features may be combined in ways not specifically recited in the claims and or disclosed in the specification. Although each dependent claim listed below may directly depend on only one other claim the disclosure of the possible implementations includes each dependent claim in combination with every other claim in the claim set.

No element act or instruction used in the present application should be construed as critical or essential unless explicitly described as such. Also as used herein the article a is intended to include one or more items and is used interchangeably with the phrase one or more. Where only one item is intended the term one or similar language is used. Further the phrase based on is intended to mean based at least in part on unless explicitly stated otherwise.

