---

title: Apparatus and method for providing safety level of uniform resource locator
abstract: A method and an electronic device for determining the reliability of a Uniform Resource Locator (URL) is provided. The method includes receiving a selection of a displayed URL, detecting a reliability of the selected URL, and providing a safety level of the URL based on the detected reliability.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09619475&OS=09619475&RS=09619475
owner: Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd
number: 09619475
owner_city: 
owner_country: KR
publication_date: 20150507
---
This application claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 a to Korean Patent Application Serial No. 10 2014 0080050 filed in the Korean Intellectual Property Office on Jun. 27 2014 the entire content of which is incorporated herein by reference.

The present disclosure relates generally to an electronic device that provides a safety level of a Uniform Resource Locator URL and a method thereof.

As functions of electronic devices have developed various functions are provided through an electronic device. For example a user may access a web browser so as to check real time news or to exchange opinions with other users over a social network or the like.

In addition by selecting a Uniform Resource Locator URL provided in the form of a hyperlink displayed on the display of an electronic device the URL directly connects a user to a predetermined website and thus the needs of the user may be satisfied.

However when an electronic device displays a URL included in a message received from another electronic device a user may not be certain of the safety or security of the URL when the URL is unfamiliar or is provided in a shortened form. Accordingly a need to detect the safety security level and reliability of a URL is needed.

The present disclosure has been made to address at least the problems and disadvantages described above and to provide at least the advantages described below.

Accordingly an aspect of the present disclosure is to detect a reliability of a URL every time that a device exposes a URL to a user or detect a reliability of a URL every time that a user selects a URL.

Accordingly another aspect of the present disclosure is to provide the user with a safety level of a selected URL based on a detected reliability and thus provide a method and device that secures the safety and security of the user.

In accordance with an aspect of the present disclosure a method of an electronic device is provided. The method includes receiving a selection of a displayed Uniform Resource Locator URL detecting a reliability of the selected URL and providing a safety level of the URL based on the detected reliability.

In accordance with another aspect of the present disclosure an electronic device is provided. The device includes a display and a processor. The processor is configured to receive a selection of a displayed Uniform Resource Locator URL on the display detect a reliability of the selected URL and provide a safety level of the URL based on the detected reliability.

Accordingly another aspect of the present disclosure is to detect whether a URL is modulated and to execute an application for detecting the reliability of a URL and thus provide a method and device that verifies the stability of a user.

Various embodiments of the present disclosure provide various User Interfaces Ins to enable a user to readily check a safety or security level of a selected URL based on a detected reliability of the URL and thus provide a method and device for securing the safety of the user.

Hereinafter various embodiments of the present disclosure will be described more fully in conjunction with the accompanying drawings. The present disclosure may have various embodiments and modifications and changes may be made therein. Therefore the present disclosure will be described in detail with reference to particular embodiments shown in the accompanying drawings. However it should be understood that there is no intent to limit the present disclosure to the particular embodiments disclosed but the present disclosure should be construed to cover all modifications equivalents and alternatives falling within the spirit and scope of the disclosure. In the description of the drawings identical or similar reference numerals are used to designate identical or similar elements.

As used in present disclosure the expressions include may include and other conjugates refer to the existence of a corresponding disclosed function operation or constituent element and do not limit one or more additional functions operations or constituent elements. Further the terms has have and their conjugates are intended merely to denote a certain feature numeral step operation element component or a combination thereof and should not be construed to exclude the existence of or a possibility of the addition of one or more other features numerals steps operations elements components or combinations thereof.

Further the expression or includes any or all combinations of words enumerated together. For example the expression A or B may include A may include B or may include both A and B.

While expressions including ordinal numbers such as first and second may modify various constituent elements such constituent elements are not limited by the above expressions. For example the above expressions do not limit the sequence and or importance of the elements. The expressions may be used to distinguish a component element from another component element. For example a first user device and a second user device indicate different user devices although both of them are user devices. For example a first constituent element may be referred to as a second constituent element and likewise a second constituent element may be referred to as a first constituent element without departing from the scope of various embodiments of the present disclosure.

It should be noted that if it is described that one component element is coupled or connected to another component element the first component element may be directly coupled or connected to the second component and a third component element may be coupled or connected between the first and second component elements. However when one component element is directly coupled or directly connected to another component element it should be construed that a third component element does not exist between the first component element and the second component element.

The terms as used in herein are merely for the purpose of describing particular embodiments and are not intended to limit the scope of the present disclosure. As used herein the singular forms are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. Unless defined otherwise all terms used herein including technical terms and scientific terms have the same meaning as commonly understood by a person of ordinary skill in the art to which the present disclosure pertains. Such terms as those defined in a generally used dictionary are to be interpreted to have the same meanings as the contextual meanings in the relevant field of art and are not to be interpreted to have ideal or excessively formal meanings unless clearly defined in the present disclosure.

An electronic device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure may be a device including a communication function. For example the electronic device may include at least one of a smart phone a tablet Personal Computer PC a mobile phone a video phone an e book reader a desktop PC a laptop PC a netbook computer a Personal Digital Assistant PDA a portable Portable Multimedia Player PMP an MP3 player a mobile medical device a camera a wearable device e.g. a Head Mounted Device HMD such as electronic glasses electronic clothes an electronic bracelet an electronic necklace an electronic appcessory an electronic tattoo or a smart watch .

According to some embodiments the electronic device may be a smart home appliance with a communication function. The smart home appliance as an example of the electronic device may include at least one of for example a television a Digital Versatile Disk DVD player an audio player a refrigerator an air conditioner a vacuum cleaner an oven a microwave oven a washing machine an air cleaner a set top box a TV box e.g. Samsung HomeSync Apple TV or Google TV a game console an electronic dictionary an electronic key a camcorder and an electronic picture frame.

According to some embodiments the electronic device may include at least one of various medical appliances e.g. Magnetic Resonance Angiography MRA Magnetic Resonance Imaging MRI Computed Tomography CT and ultrasonic machines navigation equipment a Global Positioning System GPS receiver an Event Data Recorder EDR a Flight Data Recorder FDR automotive infotainment device electronic equipment for ships e.g. ship navigation equipment and a gyrocompass avionics security equipment a vehicle head unit an industrial or home robot an Automatic Teller Machine ATM and a Point of Sale POS device.

According to some embodiments the electronic device may include at least one of a part of furniture or a building structure having a communication function an electronic board an electronic signature receiving device a projector and various kinds of measuring instruments e.g. a water meter an electric meter a gas meter a radio wave meter and the like .

An electronic device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure may be a combination of one or more of above described various devices. Further the electronic device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure may be a flexible device. Further it will be apparent to those skilled in the art that the electronic device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure is not limited to the aforementioned devices.

Hereinafter an electronic device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure will be described with reference to the accompanying drawings. The term user as used in various embodiments of the present disclosure may indicate a person who uses an electronic device or a device e.g. artificial intelligence electronic device that uses an electronic device.

Referring to a network environment including an electronic device is provided. The electronic device includes a bus a processor a memory an input output interface a display and a communication interface .

The bus is a circuit for connecting the aforementioned component elements and transmitting communication for example a control message between the aforementioned component elements.

The processor receives instructions from the aforementioned other component elements for example the memory the input output interface the display and the communication interface through the bus deciphers the received instructions and performs calculations or data processing based on the deciphered instructions.

The memory stores instructions or data received from or created by the processor or other components elements for example the input output interface the display and the communication interface . The memory may include programming modules for example a kernel middleware an Application Programming Interface API applications or the like. The aforementioned programming modules may be formed of software firmware and hardware or a combination of at least two thereof.

The kernel controls or manages system resources for example the bus the processor and the memory used for executing an operation or a function implemented in the remaining other programming modules for example the middleware the API and the applications . In addition the kernel may provide an interface through which the middleware the API or the applications may access the individual component elements of the electronic device to control or manage the same.

The middleware acts as an intermediary to enable the API or the applications to communicate with the kernel to exchange data. Furthermore in regard to task requests received from the applications the middleware may perform a control for example scheduling or load balancing for the task requests using a method such as allocating at least one of the applications a priority for using the system resources for example the bus the processor and the memory of the electronic device .

The API is an interface through which the applications controls functions provided by the kernel and the middleware and includes at least one interface or function for example instruction for file control window control image processing text control or the like.

According to various embodiments the applications may include a Short Message Service SMS Multimedia Messaging Service MMS application an email application a calendar application an alarm application a health care application for example an application for measuring a quantity of exercise or blood sugar or an environmental information application for example an application for providing information associated with pressure humidity or temperature . Additionally or alternatively the applications may include an application related to exchanging information between the electronic device and an electronic device . The application related to exchanging information may include for example a notification relay application for transferring predetermined information to the external electronic device or a device management application for managing the external electronic device .

The notification relay application includes a function for transferring to the external electronic device notification information generated from other applications of the electronic device for example an SMS MMS application an e mail application a health management application an environmental information application or the like . Additionally or alternatively the notification relay application may receive notification information from for example an external electronic device and provides the received notification information to a user.

The device management application manages for example installs deletes or updates functions of at least a part of an external electronic device communicating with the electronic device for example turning on off the external electronic device itself or some component elements thereof or adjusting brightness or resolution of a display applications operating in the external electronic device or services for example a telephone call service or a message service provided from the external electronic device .

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the applications may include an application designated based on a property of the external electronic device for example the type of the electronic device . For example in the case where the external electronic device is an MP3 player the applications may include an application related to the reproduction of music. Similarly in the case where the external electronic device is a mobile medical appliance the applications may include an application related to health care. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the applications may include at least one of an application designated to the electronic device and an application received from an external electronic device or a server .

The input output interface transfers instructions or data input from a user through an input output device for example a sensor a keyboard or a touch screen to the processor the memory and the communication interface through the bus . For example the input output interface may provide to the processor data for a user s touch input through the touch screen. In addition through the input output device for example a speaker or a display the input output interface may output instructions or data received from the processor the memory or the communication interface through the bus . For example the input output interface may output voice data processed through the processor to a user through a speaker.

The display displays various types of information for example multimedia data or text data to a user.

The communication interface connects communication between the electronic device and the external electronic device or the server . For example the communication interface may be connected to a network through wireless or wired communication to communicate with the external device or the server . The wireless communication may include at least one of for example Wi Fi Bluetooth BT Near Field Communication NFC GPS and cellular communication for example Long Term Evolution LTE LTE A Code Division Multiple Access CDMA Wideband CDMA WCDMA Universal Mobile Telecommunication System UMTS Wireless Broadband WiBro Global System for Mobile communication GSM or the like . The wired communication may include at least one of for example a Universal Serial Bus USB a High Definition Multimedia Interface HDMI Recommended Standard 232 RS 232 and a Plain Old Telephone Service POTS .

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the network is a communication network. The communication network may include at least one of a computer network the Internet the Internet of Things and a telephone network. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure a protocol for example a transport layer protocol data link layer protocol or a physical layer protocol for communication between the electronic device and an external device may be supported by at least one of the applications the application programming interface the middleware the kernel and the communication interface .

Referring to block diagram provides a configuration of electronic device according to an embodiment of the present disclosure. The electronic device may configure a part or the entirety of the electronic device illustrated in . The electronic device includes at least one Application Processor AP a communication module a Subscriber Identifier Module SIM card a memory a sensor module an input device a display an interface an audio module a camera module a power management module a battery an indicator and a motor .

The AP for example the processor controls a plurality of hardware or software component elements connected to the AP by driving an operating system or an application program and performs data processing and calculation associated with various data including multimedia data. The AP may be embodied as for example a System on Chip SoC . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the AP may further include a Graphic Processing Unit GPU .

The communication module for example the communication interface performs data transmission reception in communication between the electronic device for example the electronic device and other electronic devices for example the external electronic device and the server connected over a network for example network . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the communication module may include a cellular module a Wi Fi module a BT module a GPS module an NFC module and a Radio Frequency RF module .

The cellular module provides a voice call a video call a text message service or an Internet service through a communication network for example LTE LTE A CDMA WCDMA UMTS WiBro GSM or the like . Furthermore the cellular module may distinguish and authenticate electronic devices within a communication network by using for example a subscriber identification module for example the SIM card . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the cellular module may perform at least some functions which the AP provides. For example the cellular module may perform at least some of the multimedia control functions. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the cellular module may include a Communication Processor CP . Furthermore the cellular module may be embodied as for example an SoC. Although the component elements such as the cellular module for example a communication processor the memory the power management module and the like are illustrated as separate component elements from the AP in the AP may include at least some of the aforementioned component elements for example the cellular module .

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the AP or the cellular module for example a communication processor loads in a volatile memory an instruction or data received from at least one of a non volatile memory and other component elements connected thereto and processes the loaded instruction or data. Furthermore the AP or the cellular module stores data received from or generated by at least one of other component elements in a non volatile memory.

Each of the Wi Fi module the BT module the GPS module and the NFC module may include for example a processor for processing data transmitted or received through a corresponding module. Although illustrates the cellular module the Wi Fi module the BT module the GPS module and the NFC module as separate blocks at least some for example two or more of the cellular module the Wi Fi module the BT module the GPS module and the NFC module may be included in one Integrated Chip IC or one IC package. For example at least some of the processors corresponding to the cellular module the Wi Fi module the BT module the GPS module and the NFC module for example a CP corresponding to the cellular module and a Wi Fi processor corresponding to the Wi Fi module respectively may be embodied as a single SoC.

The RF module transmits receives data for example an RF signal. Although not illustrated in the drawing the RF module includes for example a transceiver a Power Amp Module PAM a frequency filter a Low Noise Amplifier LNA or the like. Further the RF module may further include a component for transmitting receiving electronic waves over a free air space in wireless communication for example a conductor a conducting wire or the like. Although illustrates that the cellular module the Wi Fi module the BT module the GPS module and the NFC module share a single RF module at least one of the cellular module the Wi Fi module the BT module the GPS module and the NFC module may transmit receive an RF signal through a separate RF module according to an embodiment of the present disclosure.

The SIM card is a card that may be inserted into a slot formed in a predetermined portion of the electronic device. The SIM card includes unique identification information for example an Integrated Circuit Card IDentifier ICCID or subscriber information for example an International Mobile Subscriber Identity IMSI .

The embedded memory may include for example at least one of a volatile memory for example a Dynamic RAM DRAM a Static RAM SRAM a Synchronous Dynamic RAM SDRAM and the like and a non volatile Memory for example a One Time Programmable ROM OTPROM a Programmable ROM PROM an Erasable and Programmable ROM EPROM an Electrically Erasable and Programmable ROM EEPROM a mask ROM a flash ROM a NAND flash memory an NOR flash memory and the like . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the embedded memory may be a Solid State Drive SSD .

The external memory further include a flash drive for example a Compact Flash CF a Secure Digital SD a Micro Secure Digital Micro SD a Mini Secure Digital Mini SD an extreme Digital xD a memory stick or the like. The external memory may be functionally connected to the electronic device through various interfaces.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the electronic device may further include a storage device or a storage medium such as a hard disc drive.

The sensor module measures a physical quantity or detects an operation state of the electronic device and converts the measured or detected information to an electronic signal. The sensor module may include at least one of a gesture sensor A a gyro sensor B an atmospheric pressure sensor C a magnetic sensor D an acceleration sensor E a grip sensor F a proximity sensor G a color sensor H for example Red Green and Blue RGB sensor a biometric sensor I a temperature humidity sensor J an illumination sensor K and a Ultra Violet UV sensor M. Additionally or alternatively the sensor module may include an E nose sensor an electromyography EMG sensor an electroencephalogram EEG sensor an electrocardiogram ECG sensor an Infrared IR sensor an iris sensor a fingerprint sensor and the like. The sensor module may further include a control circuit for controlling at least one sensor involved therein.

The input device may include a touch panel a digital pen sensor a key or an ultrasonic input device .

The touch panel recognizes a touch input in at least one of for example a capacitive scheme a resistive scheme an infrared scheme and an ultrasonic wave scheme. Further the touch panel may further include a control circuit. In the case of the capacitive scheme physical contact or proximity recognition is possible. The touch panel may further include a tactile layer. In this instance the touch panel provides a tactile response to the user.

The digital pen sensor may be embodied using a method that is the same as or similar to receiving a user s touch input or using a separate recognition sheet.

The ultrasonic input device identifies data by detecting an acoustic wave with a microphone of the electronic device through an input unit generating an ultrasonic signal and may perform wireless recognition.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the electronic device may receive a user input from an external device for example a computer or a server connected through the communication module .

The panel may be for example a Liquid Crystal Display LCD and an Active Matrix Organic Light Emitting Diode AM OLED display and the like. The panel may be embodied to be flexible transparent or wearable. The panel may be integrated with the touch panel as a single module.

The projector projects light onto a screen to display an image. The screen may be located inside or outside the electronic device .

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the display may further include a control circuit for controlling the panel the hologram device or the projector .

The interface may include a High Definition Multimedia Interface HDMI a Universal Serial Bus USB an optical interface or a D subminiature D sub . The interface may be included in the communication interface illustrated in . Additionally or alternatively the interface may include a Mobile High definition Link MHL interface a Secure Digital SD Multi Media Card MMC interface or an Infrared Data Association IrDA standard interface.

The audio module bilaterally converts a sound and an electronic signal. At least some component elements of the audio module may be included in the input output interface illustrated in . The audio module processes sound information input or output through for example a speaker a receiver earphones or a microphone .

The camera module is a device for capturing a still image or a video and according to an embodiment of the present disclosure may include one or more image sensors for example a front sensor or a rear sensor a lens an Image Signal Processor ISP or a flash for example an LED or xenon lamp .

The power management module manages the power of the electronic device . The power management module may include a Power Management Integrated Circuit PMIC a charger Integrated Circuit IC or a battery gauge.

The charging methods may be classified into wired charging and wireless charging. The charger IC charges a battery and prevents inflow of excessive voltage or excessive current from a charger. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the charger IC may include a charger IC for at least one of the wired charging method and the wireless charging method. Examples of the wireless charging include magnetic resonance charging magnetic induction charging electromagnetic charging and the like. An additional circuit such as a coil loop a resonance circuit a rectifier or the like may be added for the wireless charging.

The battery gauge measures a residual quantity of the battery or a voltage a current or a temperature during the charging. The battery stores or generates electricity and supplies power to the electronic device by using the stored or generated electricity. The battery may include for example a rechargeable battery or a solar battery.

The indicator displays a specific status of the electronic device or a part for example the AP of the electronic device for example a boot up status a message status a charging status and the like.

The electronic device may include a processing device for example a GPU for supporting mobile TV. The processing device for supporting the mobile TV processes media data according to standards for example a Digital Multimedia Broadcasting DMB a Digital Video Broadcasting DVB a media flow or the like.

The aforementioned elements of the electronic device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure may be embodied in one or more components and the names of the corresponding elements may vary with the type of the electronic device. The electronic device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure may include at least one of the aforementioned elements. Some elements may be omitted or other additional elements may be further included in the electronic device. Further some of the components of the electronic device according to the various embodiments of the present disclosure may be combined to form a single entity and thus may equivalently execute functions of the corresponding elements prior to the combination.

Referring to the electronic device is provided. The electronic device includes a controller an application a modulation determining unit a security verifying unit a storage unit a display unit and a communication unit .

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the controller controls general operations of the electronic device . The controller controls the application the modulation determining unit the security verifying unit the storage unit the display unit and the communication unit .

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure one or more applications may be installed in the electronic device . Application is an application which detects the reliability of a URL selected by a user and may execute various functions under the control of the controller . Application may be used to determine whether a Short Message Service SMS a Social Networking Service SNS or the electronic device has been hacked.

The modulation determining unit under the control of the controller determines whether a Uniform Resource Locator URL selected by a user is modulated so as to detect the reliability of the URL. The modulation determining unit reads from the storage unit a first settings file which is the latest updated file and a second settings file updated immediately before the first settings file under the control of the controller . The modulation determining unit compares the first settings file and the second settings file read from the storage unit for coidentity under the control of the controller . When the modulation determining unit reads the first settings file and the second settings file from the storage unit the controller controls the modulation determining unit to decode the first settings file and the second settings file which have been encoded and stored. The first settings file and the second settings file may be a host file or a Domain Name System DNS Internet Protocol IP address file.

The security verifying unit under the control of the controller determines a safety or security level of a URL selected by a user by working together with the application which detects the reliability of the selected URL. When the application detects the reliability of the URL selected by the user the security verifying unit detects the reliability provided from the application . Based on the detected reliability the security verifying unit determines a safety or security level of the URL and converts the determined level of the URL into one of a plurality of predefined safety level values.

The storage unit stores a settings file an IP address information file of a DNS server and sources of a plurality of URLs received from an external server. When the storage unit stores the settings file the IP address information file of the DNS server and the sources of the plurality of URLs the storage unit encodes and stores the same under the control of the controller . The storage unit decodes the settings file the IP address information file of the DNS server and the sources of the plurality of URLs under the control of the controller .

The display unit displays various types of information on a display of the electronic device under the control of the controller . The display unit displays a URL selected by a user and the source of the URL. The display unit displays a safety level of the selected URL based on the reliability detected by the security verifying unit . The safety level of the URL may be displayed on the display unit in one of a plurality of predetermined colors. The display unit further displays when the application detects the reliability of the URL a message that the application is executed. The source and the safety level of the URL may alternately be provided via audio through a speaker of the electronic device or by various vibration strengths or levels of intensity of the motor .

The communication unit under the control of the controller transmits and receives data to from an external electronic device or an external server . The communication unit may work in conjunction with the external server and receive updated URL information in real time from the external server . The communication unit may request and receive URL information associated with a URL from an adjacent DNS server.

In the above described configuration illustrates the general functions of the electronic device which are executed by the controller according to an embodiment of the present disclosure. The various components are illustrated separately to more clearly describe each distinct function in the embodiment of the present disclosure. However the controller may be embodied to process all the illustrated functions of the electronic device or may be embodied to process some of the illustrated functions.

Referring to an electronic device displays a URL that enables access to a predetermined IP on a display of the electronic device . The URL is displayed in the form of a hyperlink. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the electronic device may display on the display a predetermined URL included in a message received from another electronic device.

Referring to the electronic device receives from a user a selection of the displayed URL. For example as shown in the electronic device receives from the user a selection of http S.amsu.ng a.htm URL displayed in the form of a hyperlink.

The electronic device detects the reliability of the selected URL. The electronic device determines whether the selected URL is modulated. For example the electronic device reads a first settings file which is the latest updated file and a second settings file which is updated immediately before the first settings file. When reading the first settings file and the second settings file the electronic device decodes the first settings file and the second settings file which have been encoded and stored.

The electronic device compares the first settings file and the second settings file for coidentity to detect the reliability of the URL selected by the user. For example the electronic device may compare a first host file the latest updated host file and a second host file a host file updated immediately before the first host file for coidentity to detect the reliability of the URL selected by the user. As another example the electronic device may compare a first DNS server IP address file the latest updated DNS server IP address file and a second DNS server IP address file a DNS server IP address file that is updated immediately before the first DNS server IP address file for coidentity to detect the reliability of the URL selected by the user.

When an application that is capable of detecting the reliability of a URL selected by a user is installed the electronic device detects the reliability provided from the installed application. For example when an application a program or the like that is capable of detecting the reliability of a URL is installed in the electronic device the electronic device executes the application the program or the like to detect the reliability of the URL.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the electronic device may detect the reliability of a URL by determining whether the URL is modulated by using a predetermined application or by using both methods. The electronic device provides a safety level of the selected URL based on the detected reliability of the URL. The safety level may be one of a plurality of predefined safety levels in a safety class set. The safety class set may be defined in order of high safety level to low safety level for example from a high safety level of class A to a low safety level of class E .

Referring to when the electronic device detects the reliability of the selected URL http S.amsu.ng a.htm and determines a safety level value as class B by converting the detected safety level of the URL into a predefined safety level value the electronic device displays a message including the determined safety level value such as Connection to the URL is safe. Class B. Would you like to proceed with connection 

Referring to C when the electronic device detects the reliability of the selected URL http S.amsu.ng a.htm and determines a safety level values as class E by converting the detected safety level of the URL into a predefined safety level value the electronic device displays a message including the determined safety level value such as Connection to the URL is unsafe. Class E. Would you like to proceed with connection illustrates of collecting URL information from a server according to an embodiment of the present disclosure.

Referring to an electronic device and a server are provided. According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the electronic device may work together with a server in real time and to be provided with information associated with a plurality of URLs and sources of the plurality of URLs from the server. That is the electronic device uses the information provided from the server to determine a safety level of a URL selected by a user.

The server stores and updates information associated with a plurality of URLs and sources of the URLs in real time. For example the server stores information indicating that http a.bcd.ef a.htm is a URL having a source of company A that http g.hi.j a.htm is a URL having a source of company B and that http b.lac.k a.htm is a URL which is listed in a black list as will be described below.

The electronic device working together with the server in real time is provided by the server with information associated with a plurality of updated URLs and sources of the plurality of URLs. Using the above described example the server provides the electronic device with the information indicating that http a.bcd.ef a.htm is a URL having a source of company A that http g.hi.j a.htm is a URL having a source of company B and that http b.lac.k a.htm is a URL which is listed in a black list .

A URL may be displayed on a display of the electronic device . For example when a URL such as http a.bcd.ef a.htm is included in a text message received on the electronic device the electronic device displays the URL of http a.bcd.ef a.htm together with contents of the received text message.

When the electronic device receives from a user a selection of the URL displayed on the display the electronic device detects the reliability of the selected URL and determines a safety level of the URL based on the detected reliability. The electronic device utilizes URL information provided from the server to determine the safety level of the selected URL based on the detected reliability and to provide a source of the URL. For example when the electronic device receives a selection of the URL http a.bcd.ef a.htm the electronic device detects the reliability of the http a.bcd.ef a.htm URL. The electronic device is provided with URL information from the server indicating that http a.bcd.ef a.htm is a URL having a source of company A . The electronic device uses the URL information provided by the server to determine the safety level of http a.bcd.ef a.htm based on the detected reliability of the URL and to provide source information indicating that the selected URL has a source of company A .

Referring to the electronic device detects the reliability of a URL selected by a user based on whether the URL is modulated or based on a reliability provided from an application that is capable of detecting a reliability of a URL. The electronic device determines a safety level of a selected URL based on a detected reliability of the URL and displays the safety level on the display of the electronic device . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure as a safety level becomes lower the color displayed on the display becomes darker.

The examples which follow with respect to describe the case in which the electronic device receives a selection of http s.amsu.ng a.htm URL from a user and safety levels in a safety class set class 1 to class 5 defined in order of high to low safety level have been predefined.

Referring to the electronic device detects the reliability of the selected URL http s.amsu.ng a.htm and determines the safety level of the URL. The electronic device determines the safety level value as class 1 which indicates the highest safety level by converting the detected safety level of the URL into a predefined safety level value. The electronic device displays a message including the determined safety level value such as Connection to the URL is safe. Class 1. Would you like to proceed with connection Additionally or alternatively an audio message or various vibration strengths or levels of intensity of the motor may be provided. When the electronic device displays the message on the display the electronic device may display the message in a color set as level 1 which is the lightest color among colors in a predefined number of color levels .

Referring to the electronic device detects the reliability of the selected URL http s.amsu.ng a.htm and determines the safety level of the URL. The electronic device determines the safety level value as class 2 which indicates the second highest safety level by converting the detected safety level of the URL into a predefined safety level value. The electronic device displays a message including the determined safety level value such as Connection to the URL is safe. Class 2. Would you like to proceed with connection Additionally or alternatively an audio message may be provided. When the electronic device displays the message on the display the electronic device may display the message in a color set as level 2 which is the second lightest color among colors in a predefined number of color levels .

Referring to the electronic device detects the reliability of the selected URL http s.amsu.ng a.htm and determines the safety level of the URL. The electronic device determines the safety level value as class 3 which indicates the third highest safety level by converting the detected safety level of the URL into a predefined safety level value. The electronic device displays a message including the determined safety level value such as Connection to the URL is safe. Class 3. Would you like to proceed with connection Additionally or alternatively an audio message or various vibration strengths or levels of intensity of the motor may be provided. When the electronic device displays the message on the display the electronic device may display the message in a color set as level 3 which is the third lightest color among colors in a predefined number of color levels .

Referring to the electronic device detects the reliability of the selected URL http s.amsu.ng a.htm and determines the safety level of the URL. The electronic device determines the safety level value as class 5 which indicates the lowest safety level by converting the detected safety level of the URL into a predefined safety level value. The electronic device displays a message including the determined safety level value such as Connection to the URL is unsafe. Class 5. Would you like to proceed with connection Additionally or alternatively an audio message or various vibration strengths or levels of intensity of the motor may be provided. When the electronic device displays the message on the display the electronic device may display the message in a color set as level 5 which is the darkest color among colors in a predefined number of color levels .

Although the present embodiment describes that the color of a display provided by the electronic device becomes darker as the safety level of a URL becomes lower the above described embodiment is merely an example and the color of the display may become lighter or brightness chroma or the like may be used to indicate the level of safety of the URL.

Referring to the electronic device an electronic device receives a selection of a URL displayed on a display of the electronic device from a user.

For example referring to the electronic device may receive a selection of http A.BC.D E.htm URL displayed in a hyperlink form from a user.

The electronic device may detect the reliability of the selected URL by determining whether the selected URL is modulated. To determine whether the selected URL is modulated the electronic device reads a first settings file which is the latest updated file and a second settings file which is updated immediately before the first settings file. When reading the first settings file and the second settings file the electronic device decodes the first settings file and the second settings file which have been encoded and stored. The electronic device compares the first settings file and the second settings file for coidentity to detect the reliability of the URL selected by the user.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the electronic device may compare a first host file the latest updated host file and a second host file a host file updated immediately before the first host file to detect the reliability of the URL selected by the user. That is the electronic device compares the first host file and the second host file for coidentity and determines a safety level of the selected URL.

Referring to the electronic device compares the first host file and the second host file for coidentity and determines that the coidentity does not exist. The electronic device displays a message including the determined safety level of the selected URL such as Host file has been changed. Connection is not recommended. Additionally or alternatively an audio message or various vibration strengths or levels of intensity of the motor may be provided.

According to another embodiment of the present disclosure the electronic device may compare a first DNS server IP address file the latest updated DNS server IP address file and a second DNS server IP address file a DNS server IP address file that is updated immediately before the first DNS server IP address file for coidentity to detect the reliability of the URL selected by the user. That is the electronic device compares the first DNS server IP address file and the second DNS server IP address file for coidentity and determines a safety level of the selected URL.

Referring to the electronic device compares the first DNS server IP address file and the second DNS server IP address file for coidentity and determines that coidentity does not exist. The electronic device displays a message including the determined safety level of the selected URL such as IP address of the DNS server has been changed. Connection is not recommended. Additionally or alternatively an audio message or various vibration strengths or levels of intensity of the motor may be provided.

When an application a program or the like that is capable of detecting a reliability of a predetermined URL is installed in the electronic device the electronic device may execute the application the program or the like to detect the reliability of the selected URL.

In the above described embodiment as illustrated in the electronic device determines that the safety level of the URL is low and thus the electronic device displays as selected one of a total of four safety level icons . When the electronic device determines that the safety level of the URL is high three or more of the four safety level icons may be selected.

Referring to the electronic device detects the reliability of a URL selected by a user based on URL information received from a server. The electronic device determines a safety level of a selected URL based on a detected reliability of the URL and displays the safety level on the display of the electronic device .

The examples which follow with respect to describe the case in which the electronic device receives a selection of http a.bc.d a.htm URL from a user safety levels in a safety class set of class 1 to class 5 defined in order of high to low safety level have been predefined and the electronic device is set to display a safety level message in darker color as the safety level of a URL becomes lower.

Referring to the selected URL is included in URL source information received from a server and application A is installed on the electronic device as an application that is capable of detecting a reliability of a URL selected by a user.

The electronic device detects the reliability of a selected URL by determining whether the selected URL is modulated and by using the reliability provided from application A. 

In the electronic device detects the reliability of the URL selected by the user based on a determined safety level value of class 1 and additionally determines that a fishing hacking attempt is not detected by executing the application A the electronic device then displays message .

For example as shown in the electronic device displays on the display of the electronic device class information such as Safety class of the connection Class 1 message URL information such as URL of Samsung Electronics message stability information such as Fishing hacking attempt has not been reported message application information such as Security check application A message . In addition the electronic device may provide the message displayed in the lightest color of the set color levels.

Referring to the selected URL is not included in URL source information received from a server and application C is installed as an application that is capable of detecting a reliability of a URL selected by a user. According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the electronic device detects the reliability of a selected URL. by determining whether the selected URL is modulated and by using the reliability provided from application C .

In the electronic device detects the reliability of the URL selected by the user based on a determined safety level value of class 5 indicating the lowest reliability among set five classes and additionally determines that a fishing hacking attempt is detected by executing application C . The electronic device then displays a message .

For example as shown in the electronic device displays on the display of the electronic device class information such as Safety class of the connection Class 5 message URL information such as Registrant of Domain B Corporation. Message stability information such as Fishing hacking attempt has been reported message application information such as Security check application C . In addition the electronic device may provide the message to be displayed in the darkest color of the set color levels.

In addition if the selected URL is not stored in the electronic device the electronic device requests URL information from an adjacent DNS server receives the URL information from the DNS server and provides a source of the URL based on the received URL information.

Referring to the electronic device receives a selection of a displayed URL in operation . For example the electronic device displays on the display a URL included in a message received from another electronic device and may receives a selection of the displayed URL from a user.

In operation the electronic device determines whether the selected URL is modulated. The electronic device reads a first settings file which is the latest updated file and a second settings file which is updated immediately before the first settings file. When reading the first settings file and the second settings file the electronic device decodes the first settings file and the second settings file which have been encoded and stored. The electronic device compares the first settings file and the second settings file for coidentity to detect the reliability of the URL selected by the user. For example the electronic device may compare a first host file the latest updated host file and a second host file a host file updated immediately before the first host file for coidentity to detect the reliability of the URL selected by the user. As another example the electronic device may compare a first DNS server IP address file the latest updated DNS server IP address file and a second DNS server IP address file a DNS server IP address file that is updated immediately before the first DNS server IP address file for coidentity to detect the reliability of the URL selected by the user.

In operation the electronic device determines whether an application that is capable of detecting the reliability of a URL is installed. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the application that is capable of detecting the reliability of a URL may be a vaccine program a separate application that is capable of detecting a reliability of a URL selected in an electronic device or the like.

When the electronic device determines that the application that is capable of detecting a reliability of a URL is not installed the electronic device proceeds to operation .

When the electronic device determines that the application that is capable of detecting the reliability of a URL is installed in operation the electronic device detects a reliability provided from the application. When an application a program or the like that is capable of detecting a reliability of a predetermined URL is installed in the electronic device the electronic device executes the application the program or the like that detects the reliability of the predetermined URL so as to detect the reliability of the selected URL.

For example the electronic device receives a selection of http s.amsu.ng a.htm URL from a user and safety levels in a safety class set of class A to class E have been predefined.

If the electronic device detects the reliability of the selected URL http s.amsu.ng a.htm and determines a safety level value of class B by converting a determined safety level of the URL into a predefined safety level value the electronic device provides a display message and or an audio message including the determined safety level value such as Connection to the URL is safe. Class B. Would you like to proceed with connection 

If the electronic device detects the reliability of the selected URL http s.amsu.ng a.htm and determines a safety level of class E by converting a determined safety level of the URL into a predefined safety level value the electronic device provides a display message and or an audio message including the determined safety level value such as Connection to the URL is unsafe. Would you like to proceed with connection 

Referring to the electronic device receives a selection of a displayed URL in operation . For example the electronic device displays on the display of the electronic device a URL included in a message received from another electronic device and receives a selection of the displayed URL from a user.

In operation the electronic device detects the reliability of the selected URL. When the electronic device is capable of determining whether the selected URL is modulated and an application that is capable of detecting the reliability of a URL selected by a user is installed the electronic device detects a reliability provided from the installed application. The method of detecting the reliability of a URL selected by a user may be based on determining whether the URL is modulated or by using the reliability determined by a predetermined application. That is the electronic device may detect the reliability of a URL by determining whether the URL is modulated by using a predetermined application or by using both methods.

In operation the electronic device provides a safety level of the URL based on the detected reliability. For example if the electronic device detects the reliability of the selected URL and determines a safety level value of class 3 which indicates the third highest safety level by converting a determined safety level of the URL into a predefined safety level value the electronic device provides a message including the determined safety level value such as Connection to the URL is safe. Class 3. Would you like to proceed with connection The message may be displayed on the electronic device or may be provided in the form of an audio message. If the electronic device detects the reliability of the selected URL and determines a safety class level value of class 5 which indicates the lowest safety level by converting a determined safety level of the URL into a set predefined safety level value the electronic device provides a message including the determined safety level value such as Connection to the URL is unsafe. Class 5. Would you like to proceed with connection The message may be displayed on the electronic device or may be provided in the form of an audio message.

Embodiments of the present disclosure provided in the present specifications and drawings are merely examples used to readily describe the technology associated with the present disclosure and to help in an understanding of the present disclosure but do not limit the scope of the present disclosure. Therefore in addition to the embodiments disclosed herein the scope of the present disclosure should be construed to include all modifications or modified forms drawn based on the technical idea of the various embodiments of the present disclosure. Therefore the scope of the disclosure is defined not by the detailed description of the embodiments but by the following claims and their equivalents.

