---

title: Joint optimization of a radio access network and a distributed antenna system
abstract: Certain features relate to systems and methods for jointly optimizing a radio access network (RAN) and distributed antenna system (DAS). A joint RAN-DAS self-optimizing network (SON) entity can determine target operations and management parameters based on operations and management parameters specific to the DAS and operations and management parameters specific to the RAN. The joint RAN-DAS-SON entity can optimize the RAN and DAS using the target operations and management parameters. Jointly optimizing the RAN and the DAS can improve the capacity characteristics, coverage characteristics, or the performance characteristics of the RAN and DAS. In some aspects, the joint RAN-DAS-SON entity can optimize the RAN and DAS by re-allocating power levels of downlink signals transmitted by remote units of the DAS to compensate for underutilized carrier signals in situations of low traffic load.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09572051&OS=09572051&RS=09572051
owner: CommScope Technologies LLC
number: 09572051
owner_city: Hickory
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150216
---
This is a U.S. national phase under 35 U.S.C. 371 of International Patent Application No. PCT US2015 015999 titled Joint Optimization of a Radio Access Network and a Distributed Antenna System and filed Feb. 16 2015 which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 942 800 filed Feb. 21 2014 and titled Jointly Managing the Operation and Configuration of Distributed Antenna Systems and Radio Access Network Systems the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.

The disclosure relates generally to telecommunications and more particularly although not necessarily exclusively to joint management and optimization of a radio access network and a distributed antenna system.

A distributed antenna system DAS can include one or more head end units and multiple remote units coupled to each head end unit. A DAS can be used to extend wireless coverage in an area. Head end units can be connected to one or more base stations of a radio access network RAN . Each base station can be part of a separate node of the RAN. A head end unit can receive downlink signals from the base station and distribute downlink signals in analog or digital format to one or more remote units. The remote units can transmit the downlink signals to user equipment devices within coverage areas serviced by the remote units. In the uplink direction signals from user equipment devices may be received by the remote units. The remote units can transmit the uplink signals received from user equipment devices to a head end unit. The head end unit can transmit uplink signals to the serving base stations. The DAS may thus provide coverage extension for communication signals from the RAN nodes.

The RAN and DAS may be separately managed and optimized via respective operations and management self optimizing network SON units. A DAS SON unit for example can use parameters and counters specific to the DAS. The DAS SON unit can be fully separated from the RAN equipment. The result of a separate DAS SON unit from RAN equipment is that any modification to the configuration of the RAN nodes can have an unexpected impact on the operation of the DAS. Similarly any modification to the configuration of the DAS can have an unexpected impact on the RAN nodes. RAN and DAS system optimization cannot be jointly performed on DAS and RAN nodes with a DAS SON unit separated from the RAN nodes.

In one aspect a method is provided. The method can include collecting from a radio access network a first set of operations and management parameters. The method can also include collecting from a distributed antenna system a second set of operations and management parameters. The method can further include determining by a processing device target operations and management parameters for jointly optimizing the radio access network and the distributed antenna system. The method can also include jointly optimizing the radio access network and the distributed antenna system based on the first set of operations and management parameters the second set of operations and management parameters and the target operations and management parameters.

In another aspect a joint radio access network distributed antenna system self optimizing network RAN DAS SON entity is provided. The joint RAN DAS SON entity can include first operations and management interface configured to receive a first set of operations and management parameters from one or more nodes of a radio access network. The joint RAN DAS SON entity can also include a second operations and management interface configured to receive a second set of operations and management parameters from a head end unit of a distributed antenna system. The joint RAN DAS SON entity can further include an analysis module configured to determine target operations and management parameters for the radio access network and the distributed antenna system. The analysis module can also jointly optimize the radio access network and the distributed antenna system based on the first set of operations and management parameters the second set of operations and management parameters and the target operations and management parameters.

In another aspect joint radio access network distributed antenna system self optimizing network RAN DAS SON entity is provided. The joint RAN DAS SON entity can include a first operations and management interface configured to receive a first set of operations and management parameters from one or more nodes of a radio access network. The joint RAN DAS SON entity can also include a second operations and management interface configured to receive a second set of operations and management parameters from a head end unit of a distributed antenna system. The joint RAN DAS SON entity can further include a processing device. The joint RAN DAS SON entity can also include a memory device having program code stored thereon. Upon execution by the processing device the program code is configured to perform operations comprising determining target operations and management parameters for the radio access network and the distributed antenna system.

Certain aspects and features are directed to methods and systems for jointly managing and optimizing the operation and configuration of a distributed antenna system DAS and a radio access network RAN . For example a joint RAN DAS self optimizing network SON entity can be communicatively coupled to the DAS head end unit and one or more nodes of the RAN. The joint RAN DAS SON entity can receive operations and management O M parameters specific to the RAN and O M parameters specific to the DAS. Based on the DAS O M parameters and RAN O M parameters the joint RAN DAS SON entity can determine target values for O M parameters which can indicate optimal optimization settings for the RAN and DAS. For example the optimal optimization settings can include settings to tune the RAN and DAS for optimal coverage capacity or performance. In some aspects optimization settings can include adjustments for the uplink downlink gain of signals transmitted by the RAN or DAS to compensate for detected noise within the RAN and DAS. In other aspects optimization settings can include re allocating power levels of downlink signals transmitted by RAN nodes to account for changing traffic conditions. Other settings to tune the RAN and DAS for optimal coverage capacity or performance are also possible.

Jointly optimizing the RAN and a DAS through a joint RAN DAS SON entity can facilitate communication between RAN nodes and DAS head end units and reduce delays caused by measuring and sending performance data between the DAS and the RAN. For example without a joint RAN DAS SON entity a base station in a RAN can compensate for uplink noise generated by the DAS by measuring for uplink noise offline first and then separately adjusting uplink downlink gain to compensate for the uplink noise through the O M system of the base station. A joint RAN DAS SON entity can receive performance indicators indicating uplink noise level from the RAN and DAS and in response send instructions to the DAS head end unit to modify the uplink gain or a DAS node to modify the downlink gain. Similarly the joint RAN DAS SON entity can adjust for signal delay introduced by the DAS.

For example the DAS can measure value of the delay introduced between the head end and the remote unit in both downlink and the uplink directions. This value can be reported to the joint RAN DAS SON entity which in turn can send an O M command to the base station i.e. the RAN Node . This command can be the Cell Radius O M parameter used in the base station to configure the maximum expected delay in the cell served. The optimal value of the Cell Radius parameter can be calculated by the SON entity as follows DAS roundtrip downlink uplink delay estimated over the air roundtrip delay due to propagation over max distance between the remote unit and user terminal Light Speed 2. This formula is valid by assuming total DL delay total UL delay.

Jointly optimizing the RAN and DAS through a joint RAN DAS SON entity can also make performance data of the RAN available to the DAS. The joint RAN DAS SON entity can detect changes to RAN performance data and make corresponding optimizations to DAS settings to tune the DAS to optimal performance characteristics.

These illustrative aspects and examples are given to introduce the reader to the general subject matter discussed here and are not intended to limit the scope of the disclosed concepts. The following sections describe various additional features and examples with reference to the drawings in which like numerals indicate like elements and directional descriptions may be used to describe the illustrative aspects but like the illustrative aspects should not be used to limit the present disclosure.

The RAN DAS architecture can also include a RAN with multiple operators. Each operator can have multiple RAN nodes associated with multiple technologies sector identifiers and carrier frequencies. As shown in RAN operator A can include RAN nodes communicatively coupled to a core network for operator A. RAN nodes can each include an O M API for communicating RAN O M parameters with the joint RAN DAS SON entity . Non limiting examples of RAN O M parameters can include base station software stack control and monitoring parameters radio front end processing parameters media access control scheduler settings radio resource management settings and transport plane settings. RAN operator A can also include an element management system EMS network management system NMS entity communicatively coupled to the joint RAN DAS SON entity . Similarly RAN operator B can include RAN nodes communicatively coupled to a core network for operator B. RAN nodes can also include O M APIs for communicating RAN O M parameters to the joint RAN DAS SON entity . RAN operator B can also include an EMS NMS entity communicatively coupled to the joint RAN DAS SON entity . While depicts joint RAN DAS SON entity separate from the RAN and DAS for illustrative purposes in other aspects the joint RAN DAS SON entity can be included in one of the RAN nodes or in the head end unit .

The EMS NMS entities can include an EMS and an NMS specific to each respective operator. The EMS NMS entities can manage network elements of the respective operator networks. For example EMS NMS entities can manage network administration tasks identify network issues within the respective RAN and manage the capacity of the RAN and identify areas of data congestion within each respective RAN. Each of the RAN nodes and can include a base station for providing downlink communications to the DAS head end unit . The base stations of each respective RAN node and can also receive uplink communications from the head end unit and provide the uplink communications to respective core networks 

The joint RAN DAS SON entity can receive RAN O M parameters from RAN nodes via a RAN O M API . The joint RAN DAS SON entity can also receive DAS O M parameters via a DAS O M API . The joint RAN DAS SON entity can also receive communications from the EMS NMS entities via an EMS NMS interface . In some aspects the joint RAN DAS SON entity can receive EMS NMS commands directly from RAN nodes and 

Based on the received RAN O M parameters and DAS O M parameters the joint RAN DAS SON entity can determine target O M parameters for optimal configuration of elements of the RAN and DAS. Target O M parameters can include various parameters for jointly optimizing the RAN and DAS. The target O M parameters can include optimal configuration settings to optimize coverage characteristics capacity characteristics or performance characteristics of the RAN and DAS. For example each of the RAN operators can have different key performance indicators that specify target performance guidelines such as network capacity requirements and minimum quality of service requirements. Each operator can adopt a specific policy on the visible configurable parameters. In one aspect the target O M parameters determined by the joint RAN DAS SON entity can be provided to the DAS head end unit and the individual RAN nodes to modify RAN and DAS system parameters to ensure that the key performance indicators of the different operators are met. Further the joint RAN DAS SON entity can jointly manage the RAN and DAS to minimize the impact on one operator network e.g. RAN nodes due to configuration changes in the other operator network e.g RAN nodes . Further the joint RAN DAS SON entity can modify parameters specific to the DAS head end unit in order to optimize the DAS due to changes in the RAN configuration. Parameters specific to the head end unit that can be adjusted include the gain of signals transmitted by the head end unit .

In some aspects target O M parameters jointly configured by the joint RAN DAS SON entity can include values to adjust the uplink gain of the DAS head end unit . For example the uplink noise from a RAN node can be used as a reference parameter to adjust the DAS uplink gain. The DAS head end unit can report the generated uplink noise power at the input port of the RAN node and the joint RAN DAS SON entity can adjust the uplink gain of the DAS head end unit based on the uplink noise power reference of the RAN node . If the head end unit uplink noise power exceeds the uplink noise power reference of the RAN node by x dB due to the current DAS head end unit uplink gain then the joint RAN DAS SON entity can reduce the head end unit UL gain by x dB.

Another RAN O M parameter that the joint RAN DAS SON entity can use to optimize the DAS head end unit uplink gain is the P0nom target parameter of the RAN Node . In the LTE wireless communication standard the P0nom target parameter corresponds to the reference uplink nominal power. A target power level at the input of a DAS remote can also be defined and available at the joint RAN DAS SON entity . The joint RAN DAS SON entity can set the uplink gain of the DAS head end unit so that target DAS remote unit input power DAS head end unit uplink gain 0nom target

In another aspect the target uplink signal to interference plus noise ratio SINR of the RAN node can be used by the joint RAN DAS SON entity in order to optimize the number of DAS remote units connected to the same RAN node i.e. the same sector . The number of remote units connected to the same RAN node is a target O M parameter that can be referred to as the DAS simulcast factor. If the target uplink SINR of the RAN node cannot be met due to excessive uplink noise from the DAS the joint RAN DAS SON entity can reduce the DAS simulcast factor and send a command to the DAS head end unit instructing the head end unit to reduce the DAS simulcast factor.

For example if the target uplink SINR is equal to x dB and the current uplink SINR is equal to x 3 dB then the joint RAN DAS SON entity can instruct the DAS head end unit to reduce the simulcast factor by half i.e. to reduce by half the number of remote units connected to the same sector . Reducing the DAS simulcast factor by half can increase the uplink SINR of the RAN node by 3 dB and meet the target.

In additional aspects the RAN O M parameter indicating the number of active antennas of the RAN node can be used by the joint RAN DAS SON entity to optimize the number of active DAS remote units . If the RAN node reports that a secondary antenna port e.g. in case of a 2 2 MIMO configuration is not active then the joint RAN DAS SON entity can instruct the DAS head end unit to shut down the DAS remote units communicatively linked to the secondary antenna port of the RAN node . In addition to shutting down the DAS remote units communicatively linked to the secondary antenna port the DS head end unit can also shut down any other DAS module related to the secondary radio path.

In additional aspects the target O M parameter that the joint RAN DAS SON entity can configure includes values to adjust the downlink gain of the head end unit . For example the RAN node can report the transmission output power of the RAN node for a given carrier to the joint RAN DAS SON entity . The joint RAN DAS SON entity can also obtain information from the RAN node regarding the desired target power for the given carrier as transmitted by the DAS remote unit . The joint RAN DAS SON entity can configure the DAS head end unit downlink gain in order to reach the target output power level at the remote unit as follows target DAS remote unit output power RAN node transmission power DAS downlink gain.

The joint RAN DAS SON entity can also configure the DAS head end unit downlink gain based on the output power and target output power of a pilot signal. For example the RAN node can also report to the joint RAN DAS SON entity the output power of the pilot signal from the RAN node . The DAS head end unit can report the target output pilot power at the DAS remote unit . The joint RAN DAS SON entity can configure the DAS head end unit downlink gain according to the same formula above. In some aspects the optimal setting for the DAS head end unit downlink gain can also be a negative value in which case the joint RAN DAS SON entity can attenuate the downlink gain of the head end unit .

In other aspects the Low Noise Amplifier LNA gain in the uplink path of the RAN node can be reported to the joint RAN DAS SON entity . In order to optimize the uplink path performance of the RAN and DAS combined system the joint RAN DAS SON entity can switch off the LNA of the RAN node and set the uplink gain of the DAS head end unit equal to the gain of the LNA of the RAN node . In some aspects a Tower Mounted Amplifier TMA gain setting may be available at the RAN node . The joint RAN DAS SON entity can set the uplink gain of the TMA of the RAN node to a value equal to uplink noise rise at the RAN node due to the DAS uplink downlink gain imbalance of the DAS

In additional aspects the RAN node can report to the joint RAN DAS SON entity information related to the frequency technology channel bandwidth Mobile Country Code Mobile Network Code of the radiated cell signals including other information the RAN node may broadcast to the network. The joint RAN DAS SON entity can relay this information to the DAS head end unit and to the DAS controller within the head end unit more specifically.

The RAN node can also provide RAN O M parameters including information indicating the current Transmission Mode TM to the joint RAN DAS SON entity . For example the TM can correspond to various antenna transmission configurations including SISO MIMO TX Diversity or MIMO Spatial Multiplexing open loop or closed loop . If the RAN node operates in a closed loop TM then the RAN node also may also provide the Pre coding Matrix Indicator PMI in operation which depends on the type of phase shift e.g. 90 180 degrees or others the RAN node applies to the transmitted signals. The joint RAN DAS SON entity can report the parameters including the TM and the PMI to the DAS head end unit and to the DAS controller more specifically. The DAS head end unit can apply another phase shift to the received signals according to the phase shift applied by the RAN node . By coherent combining o the phase shifted signals at the DAS head end unit the desired signal strength can be maximized and the undesired signals can be canceled.

In additional aspects the traffic load on a given cell can be also reported by the RAN node to the joint RAN DAS SON entity . In case the reported traffic load is higher than a given threshold for a given DAS simulcast configuration i.e. the number of DAS remote units radiating the same cell signal then the joint RAN DAS SON entity can instruct the DAS head end unit to reduce the DAS simulcast factor e.g. assign fewer remote units to the same cell signal . The DAS head end unit can use a signal switching function to route the cell signal to different remote units .

In another aspect instead of determining the target O M parameters the joint RAN DAS SON entity can operate in a slave mode by forwarding RAN O M parameters and DAS O M parameters to the EMS NMS entities . The EMS NMS entities a b can determine optimal configuration settings for the RAN and DAS and provide instructions on the configuration settings to the joint RAN DAS SON entity . Using the instructions from the EMS NMS entities the joint RAN DAS SON entity can optimize the RAN and DAS to optimize coverage characteristics capacity characteristics or performance characteristics.

The analysis module can include a processing device and a memory device . The processing device can include any device suitable for executing program instructions to control operation of the joint RAN DAS SON entity . Examples of processing device include a microprocessor an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other suitable processor. The processing device may include one processor or any number of processors. The memory device can include any non transitory media for storing program code defining the operations of the joint RAN DAS SON entity . Non limiting examples of memory device can include read only memory ROM random access memory RAM optical storage magnetic storage flash memory or any other medium from which the processing device can read program code.

The memory device can include program code defining instructions that when executed by the processing device cause the joint RAN DAS SON entity to switch between a master mode a slave mode and a hybrid mode. While operating in a master mode the joint RAN DAS SON entity can determine target O M parameters based on received DAS O M parameters and RAN O M parameters. The target O M parameters can be provided as instructions to the appropriate RAN nodes or DAS head end unit . While operating in a slave mode the joint RAN DAS SON entity can forward DAS O M parameters and RAN O M parameters to EMS NMS entities . The joint RAN DAS SON entity can also forward instructions on optimal configuration received from the EMS NMS entities to RAN nodes and to DAS head end unit via the RAN O M API and the DAS O M API respectively. In a hybrid mode a portion of the O M target parameters can be determined by the joint RAN DAS SON entity and a second portion of the O M target parameters can be determined by the EMS NMS entities and forwarded to the appropriate RAN nodes or DAS head end unit . In some aspects each operator of the RAN can specify different optimization algorithms for the joint RAN DAS SON entity . In this context each operator can select which target O M parameters should be determined at the joint RAN DAS SON entity and which target O M parameters can be centrally managed at the EMS NMS entities 

In block the joint RAN DAS SON entity can collect a second set of O M parameters. For example the joint RAN DAS SON entity can collect DAS O M parameters from the DAS head end unit similar to the steps described with respect to block . As mentioned above DAS O M parameters can include control and signaling parameters specific to the DAS.

The joint RAN DAS SON entity can determine target O M parameters based on the first set of O M parameters and the second set of O M parameters as shown in block . Target O M parameters can include optimal configuration settings for jointly configuring the RAN and the DAS. For example the first set of O M parameters e.g. RAN O M parameters may include key performance indicators indicating network performance guidelines and minimum quality of service requirements. The joint RAN DAS SON entity can determine the target O M parameters that would meet the performance guidelines specified by the key performance indicators. As another example the first set of O M parameters can indicate measured uplink noise detected by base stations at RAN nodes . In response the joint RAN DAS SON entity via the analysis module can determine target O M parameters to compensate for the uplink noise. Target O M parameters to compensate for uplink noise can include instructions for increased gain at the head end unit . Similarly the joint RAN DAS SON entity can determine target O M parameters and provide instructions to the base stations at RAN nodes to adjust downlink gain to compensate for downlink noise measured at the head end unit .

In another aspect the joint RAN DAS SON entity can be configured to operate in a slave mode and forward the first set of O M parameters and second set of O M parameters to the EMS NMS entities . The EMS NMS entities can determine the target O M parameters and generate instructions regarding optimizing the RAN and DAS to meet the target O M parameters.

Based on the first set of O M parameters second set of O M parameters and the target O M parameters the joint RAN DAS SON entity can jointly optimize the RAN and the DAS as indicated in block . For example while the joint RAN DAS SON entity operates in a master mode the analysis module can determine instructions for optimizing characteristics of the RAN and DAS to obtain the target O M parameters. The joint RAN DAS SON entity can provide the instructions regarding the target O M parameters to the RAN nodes to optimize aspects of the RAN. The joint RAN DAS SON entity can also provide the instructions regarding the target configuration settings to the DAS head end unit to optimize aspects of the DAS. As discussed above jointly optimizing the RAN and the DAS can improve the capacity characteristics coverage characteristics or the performance characteristics of the RAN and DAS. When the joint RAN DAS SON entity operates in a slave mode the joint RAN DAS SON entity can jointly optimize the RAN and DAS by forwarding instructions from the EMS NMS entities to the RAN nodes and the head end unit .

In some aspects the joint RAN DAS SON entity can optimize the RAN and DAS by re allocating power levels across downlink carriers based on low traffic conditions detected on one or more downlink carriers. For example RAN nodes can each transmit a different downlink carrier signal at varying power levels defined during initialization of the DAS. The power levels of the individual downlink carrier signals can be independently calculated to meet specific key performance indicators for remote units . For example key performance indicators for remote units may specify that the downlink carrier signals are transmitted at a minimum pilot power level. Each remote unit can transmit the multiple carrier signals to user devices.

During operation of the RAN and DAS however low traffic conditions may exist for one or more of the downlink carrier signals such that some of the allocated power is unused. Low traffic conditions can thus result in inefficient power distribution due to unused bandwidth. When a given downlink carrier signal is associated with a low traffic load the joint RAN DAS SON entity can re distribute the power allocation across the downlink carriers to optimize the RAN and DAS.

For example are tables depicting an example of power allocation and re allocation across four downlink carrier signals from RAN nodes and remote unit . depicts the power level per downlink carrier signal provided by RAN nodes each RAN node respectively transmitting one carrier signal . During initialization of the RAN and DAS initial power allocation for the signals transmitted by RAN nodes can be evenly divided as shown in row each RAN node transmitting 43 decibel milliwatts dBm when transmitting for full traffic load. During operation of the RAN and DAS one carrier signal may exhibit no traffic load in which case RAN node can transmit carrier signal at a reduced power level of 33 dBm.

In some aspects the joint RAN DAS SON entity can receive the traffic load information on each downlink carrier signal and optimize the transmission power levels of remote units based on the traffic load information. For example the joint RAN DAS SON entity can receive traffic load information as part of RAN O M parameters received from RAN nodes . One non limiting example of traffic load information is information indicating the number of user devices connected to and in communication with RAN nodes . Another example of traffic load information is information indicating the amount of bandwidth of the total signal bandwidth used by user devices connected to and in communication with RAN nodes . The DAS head end unit can also receive traffic load information from the RAN nodes and provide the traffic load information to the joint RAN DAS SON entity as part of DAS O M parameters. The DAS head end unit can also measure the traffic load information by demodulating each received downlink signal from RAN nodes and provide the traffic load information to the joint RAN DAS SON entity .

The traffic load information can indicate to the joint RAN DAS SON entity the traffic load on each downlink carrier from RAN nodes . Based on the traffic load information the joint RAN DAS SON entity can determine target operations and management parameters for optimizing the RAN and DAS by re allocating excess signal power to other downlink carriers. For example for any downlink carrier signal that has a traffic load less than a predefined threshold the joint RAN DAS SON entity can calculate the power headroom available for the carrier signal e.g. the amount of allocated power that is unused due to the low load traffic conditions . The power headroom for a given carrier signal can be the difference between the maximum possible power of a carrier signal and the actual power transmitted by a remote unit to provide wireless communication to connected user devices.

The joint RAN DAS SON entity can allocate the measured power headroom available for the low threshold carrier signal to the other carrier signals transmitted by the remote unit . For example based on the calculated power headroom the joint RAN DAS SON entity can determine a boosting factor to apply to the carrier signals associated with traffic loads higher than the predefined threshold transmitted by the remote unit . The boosting factor can include the amount of downlink gain to apply to each of the carrier signals with higher traffic load. In some aspects target operations and management parameters determined by the joint RAN DAS SON entity can include the boosting factor. The joint RAN DAS SON entity can optimize the RAN and DAS by providing the boosting factor to the head end unit . The head end unit can provide the boosting factor to the appropriate remote unit which can amplify the downlink gain associated with the carrier signals with higher traffic load according to the amount of the boosting factor. In other aspects the joint RAN DAS SON entity can optimize the RAN and DAS by directly instructing the appropriate remote unit to amplify downlink gain associated with the carrier signals with higher traffic load according to the amount of the boosting factor.

The foregoing description of the examples including illustrated examples of the invention has been presented only for the purpose of illustration and description and is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise forms disclosed. Numerous modifications adaptations and uses thereof can be apparent to those skilled in the art without departing from the scope of this invention. The illustrative examples described above are given to introduce the reader to the general subject matter discussed here and are not intended to limit the scope of the disclosed concepts.

