---

title: Monitoring inmate movement with RFID
abstract: The disclosure relates to systems and methods for tracking offender movement with RFID. Such a system can include a transponder associated with an offender and a radar module configured to determine a direction of a moving object passing within range of the radar module. The system can include a radio frequency identification reader situated near the radar module and configured to transmit an interrogating signal to the transponder and receive an identifying signal in response to the transponder receiving the interrogating signal. The system can include a server configured to receive data from the radio frequency identification reader and the radar module through a network, transmit the received data to a web service through the network, and receive an alert from the web service that a monitoring rule of a plurality of monitoring rules associated with the offender was violated.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09483926&OS=09483926&RS=09483926
owner: Codex Corporation
number: 09483926
owner_city: Maple Grove
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150402
---
This application is a continuation of application Ser. No. 13 837 739 filed Mar. 15 2013 entitled Monitoring Inmate Movement With RFID and issued as U.S. Pat. No. 9 024 754 on May 5 2015 priority to which is claimed and the entirety of which is incorporated herein by reference.

Officers at secure facilities can face many challenges in monitoring the whereabouts of inmates. Such monitoring can include visual inspection and verification on a strict schedule. Such monitoring can require the Officers to have a detailed knowledge of which inmates can associate with each other and which areas of a premises the individual inmates are permitted to occupy.

Various embodiments illustrated and described herein provide solutions to efficiently and accurately monitor or document the movement of offenders e.g. inmates . These and other embodiments are described with reference to the figures herein.

In the following detailed description reference is made to the accompanying drawings that form a part hereof and in which is shown by way of illustration specific embodiments in which the inventive subject matter may be practiced. These embodiments are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice them and it is to be understood that other embodiments may be utilized and that structural logical and electrical changes may be made without departing from the scope of the inventive subject matter.

Such embodiments of the inventive subject matter may be referred to individually and or collectively herein by the term invention merely for convenience and without intending to limit the scope of this application to any single invention or inventive concept if more than one is in fact disclosed. The following description is therefore not to be taken in a limited sense and the scope of the inventive subject matter is defined by the appended claims.

The disclosure presents methods and apparatuses for monitoring offender movements using one or more Radio Frequency Identification RFID readers. The RFID reader can scan for a transponder associated either directly or indirectly with an offender e.g. inmate . The scanning can cause information associated with the offender associated with the transponder to appear on a display coupled to the RFID reader. When an authorized user scans the transponder the user can view add or alter the information that is displayed when the transponder is scanned. The RFID reader can send data collected from the scan to a web service or middleware for analysis. Alternatively the RFID reader can do at least a portion of the analysis itself such as in embodiments where the RFID reader includes an operating system and an application stored thereon. The information that is entered can be saved to remote or local databases. In this way managing information about an offender or an item associated with the offender can be automatically maintained and updated. Such a system can be advantageous when implemented in a detention center incarceration facility mental health facility or any other place where information about people can be tracked or managed.

Secure facility agencies can face logistical communication and records management challenges when managing offenders e.g. incarcerated persons . This includes processing providing care and collecting a wide range of information about each of the offenders including a direction the offender is moving. Various embodiments illustrated and described herein include systems methods and software to assist in such situations. For example typical embodiments assist in rapid recording and monitoring a wide range of data about offenders including position of the offender at a given scan time and direction the offender was traveling at a given scan time. One or more embodiments may do so in a user friendly and efficient manner through a networked computing environment.

Custodians of persons in a facility manage many responsibilities including a significant amount of documentation in order to capture data pertinent to each person they are responsible for. Custodians e.g. secure facility officers may face challenges in managing persons in their facilities such as tracking their location. To help mitigate such risks some embodiments herein include systems methods and software that provide automated data documentation indicating a direction an offender is moving or using progressive scanning discussed in more detail herein .

These and other advantages can be realized using one or more embodiments disclosed herein. The systems methods and software are now described in more detail with reference to the drawings.

The RFID readers A F can be mobile e.g. handheld or fixed in the area in which they are deployed. An example of a fixed RFID reader includes a portal based RFID reader that forces an offender to walk through a portal within range of the RIFD reader . In the example shown in RFID readers A D and F are fixed while RFID reader E is mobile. The RFID readers A F can be assigned a name e.g. a collection of characters letters numbers or other symbols to uniquely identify the RFID reader . The RFID readers A F can each be assigned to a specific location. The RFID reader s location can be configured such that the RFID readers A F in aggregate can monitor a substantial portion of the premises in which they are deployed for the presence of a transponder A D. The location of an RFID reader can be determined through global positioning systems GPS software on the RFID reader a location code stored in a database e.g. database of or other computer memory or other location to allow software services to verify the location of the RFID reader . In one or more embodiments the RFID readers A F can be configured to detect a transponder located within a specific range of the RFID reader A F. In such embodiments the RFID reader can send an interrogating signal to a transponder and receive an identifying signal in response to the transponder receiving the interrogating signal. The identifying signal can include a unique identifier e.g. a specific frequency signal shape or other unique identifier corresponding to that transponder . The RFID reader can be internal or external to a building on the premises in which the system is deployed. For example RFID readers A D can be internal to a detention center building RFID reader E can be either internal or external to the detention center building and RFID reader F can be external to the detention center building such as in a courtyard or a recreation area.

The RFID readers A F can each be assigned to a specific customer e.g. an entity interested in using a movement or monitoring system . Such an assignment can help a data center manage information received from the RFID readers note 102 is used to refer to RFID readers in general . The RFID readers A F can be connected to a server or a network see through a wired or wireless connection indicated by a lightning bolt in . A wired connection can include an Ethernet connection or other protocol operable to connect the RFID readers A F to the server or network. A wireless connection can include Wi Fi Bluetooth Zigbee or other protocol operable to wirelessly connect the RFID readers A F to the server or network .

An RFID reader A F can be associated with one or more programmable events . A programmable event can include an offender head count location verification or other event. For example the RFID readers A F can be programmed to perform a scan at a particular time. The results of the scan can be sent to the server . The results retrieved can be compared to a list of expected results. If the comparison shows an irregularity or a deviation from what is expected a warning or alert can be sent to the proper personnel e.g. one or more custodians responsible for managing the person associated with deviation . The proper personnel can then respond to the situation. In the case of a detention center a warning can be sent to a detention facility officer in charge of the offender corresponding to the deviation. The system can enable one or more RFID readers to perform one or more pre programmed programmable events see such as simultaneously or on a scheduled or non scheduled basis. The programmable events can enable the RFID readers and the system to be flexible in implementing or at least partially automating a wide range of offender monitoring services such as monitoring the movement of offenders note that 105 is used to refer to offenders generally . The programmable events can allow an RFID reader to help perform multiple tasks simultaneously.

One or more user defined monitoring rules see can be assigned to a programmable event . User defined monitoring rules can include offender movement restrictions e.g. offender A is not to be outside his cell at a certain time or offender relation restrictions e.g. offenders A and B are not to be within a certain distance of each other . The monitoring rules can include an offender s housing assignment or times that an offender is to be in there cell. Other user defined monitoring rules can include ensuring one or more inmates arrive to a pre defined destination within a predefined amount of time validating that inmates assigned to a housing unit are present e.g. conducting a head count or notifying system users that an RFID reader detected a transponder when no transponder note that 104 is used to refer to transponders generally detection was expected or allowed.

The monitoring rules can include rules defining an amount of time allowed for travel from a point of origin to a destination or requiring one or more RFID readers to read the transponder of an offender while the offender is en route to the destination. The RFID reader can be caused to scan for the transponder within a window of time after the offender has left the point of origin. For example the RFID reader can be caused to scan for the transponder associated with the traveling offender for five minutes after the offender has left the point of origin. In another example the RFID reader can be caused to scan for the transponder from between one minute after the offender has left the point of origin to eleven minutes after the offender has left the point of origin.

The monitoring rules can include a capacity limitation that defines a maximum number of offenders that can be within a certain room or area at a given time. If the capacity limitation is exceeded an alert can be communicated to appropriate personnel. The monitoring rules can include ensuring that offenders en route to a common destination do not have a keep separate restriction.

User defined processes can be assigned to a programmable event . User defined processes can include for example that a web service can search for predefined restrictions that might preclude an inmate from being able to enter a certain room or area or that two or more inmates are not allowed to associate with each other e.g. be within the same room or area of the facility . The user defined processes can validate that a direction an inmate was detected walking is acceptable. This can be accomplished using a radar module . The user defined processes can include a user causing an RFID reader to scan for a transponder in a specific location e.g. a multi purpose room such as a rec room .

The user defined processes can include a scheduled or non scheduled offender movement to a destination. For example a user can define that an offender is to get medical attention and that the offender is to travel to the health care facility. The user defined processes can be created using a scheduling module that can be a part of the web application or a mobile application. The ability for a user to schedule offender movement can be integrated with an existing scheduling solution.

The user can initiate an offender movement using the web application or a mobile application such as by using the scheduling module . The user can have an RFID reader e.g. a fixed RFID reader scan the transponder associated with the offender . The user can specify the destination of the offender before or after the transponder was scanned. The system can then monitor the offender s progress to the destination e.g. progressive validation such as by verifying the transponder associated with the offender passes within range of one or more specific RFID readers . An RFID reader at or near the destination can help verify the presence of the offender by scanning for the associated transponder .

A monitoring rule can be defined that requires the transponder of a moving offender to be scanned by an RFID reader within a specified period of time. An alert can be created if the RFID reader does not detect the transponder within the specified period of time. Progressive validation can include scanning for a transponder that is off the specified path. An alert can be created if the transponder is detected off the path. Progressive validation can also include directional detection and one or more monitoring rules regarding the allowed direction of the offender through an RFID reader . An alert can be created if the direction of the offender is not allowed by the monitoring rules .

Progressive validation can include validating that an offender is traveling along a pre defined path by detecting the transponder corresponding to the offender at an RFID reader at an intermediate location between the origin and the destination of the offender. Progressive validation can be used in only selected movements of offenders such as movements to specified destinations or within a specific period of time all offender movements all or specified movements of a specific offender a combination thereof or other movements. For example progressive validation can be used for an offender with pre defined security restrictions or related alerts or an association with a specific monitoring rule or alert that was created. Progressive validation can include verifying that one or more staff of the facility e.g. a detention center officer is near an offender before the offender is permitted to begin the movement. Progressive validation can include verifying such as by personnel responsible for monitoring movement of the offender that the offender is in transit or that the offender is at the destination of the movement.

Progressive validation can be performed by a user e.g. a detention center officer . Such validation can occur through a user verifying such as by manually entering into the system that the offender movement occurred. Such manual validation can include entering a unique ID of the offender or transponder associated with the offender . The web application can record data pertinent to location e.g. a preprogrammed database code a computer name through which data was entered an Internet Protocol IP address associated with the computer or the like with a progressive validation performed by a user.

Non scheduled movement can include one or more offenders that can have the same or different destinations. An offender s destination may not always be specified by a user before offender movement has begun. For example when it is discovered that two offenders A B who are not supposed to be associating with each other are in the same area the system can send an alert to move the offender before the destination of the offender is known. One or more specified RFID readers can be forced to scan for the transponder of the offender and whichever RFID reader detects the transponder can date or time stamp the read event and confirm the offender s presence at the location of the RFID reader .

A user can define an arrival time or a return time for scheduled or non scheduled movements. An arrival time can define a specified period of time in which an offender should authenticate their arrival by having a transponder scanned by an RFID reader at or near their destination such as to not trigger an alert. A return time can define a specified period of time within which an offender should authenticate their return to the point of origin by having a transponder scanned by an RFID reader at or near their point of origin such as to not trigger an alert.

A user e.g. a system administrator can define or allow scheduled or non scheduled offender movement to not trigger an alert. This allowance can be granted on a per movement per offender or per group of offenders basis. In such a configuration an offender can be allowed to authenticate their arrival time or return time late without triggering an alert. In one or more embodiments the allowance can be granted to an offender that has few no or only certain restrictions e.g. monitoring rules associated with the offender or offenders in good standing. A record of the late authentication can be recorded even if no alert is created. The record can include the time the offender authenticated their arrival or the time the offender was detected at the destination or point of origin. The record can include an indication of how late the offender was in authenticating their arrival or return. The system can notify one or more specified users in response to an offender arriving at a destination. The notification e.g. message can include the date or time of arrival a unique ID associated with the offender or transponder or other information pertinent to the arrival of the offender .

If a transponder becomes inoperable e.g. because the transponder failed or the offender damaged it either intentionally or unintentionally or lost it the arrival time or return time can be manually entered into the system such as through server . The record associated with such an authentication can include an indication that the authentication was done manually or the reason the authentication was done manually.

A user can predefine acceptable paths from a point of origin to a destination or for the return trip to the origin from the destination. The user can define that the transponder associated with a moving offender be scanned by one or more RFID readers while en route. The predefined paths and RFID readers to scan the transponder on the path can be stored in the database . The acceptable travel paths can be created at run time such as by using the web application . The paths can be saved into a library of predefined paths. The paths can be accessed by users with sufficient privileges to allow them to create new paths or modify existing paths. The disclosure regarding describes predefined acceptable paths.

A programmable event can be associated with more than one RFID reader . For example in the example of doing a head count in a secure facility a programmable event can trigger RFID readers A D to determine the number of offenders in their cell housing unit or some other location such as an infirmary or recreation yard. Associating a programmable event with an RFID reader can be done automatically such as by a computer processor or can be done manually by a user through an application configured to manage the configuration and implementation of an offender documentation system. The server A or B can instruct or poll the RFID readers A F for collected data or the RFID readers A F can be programmed to send the collected data to the server A B or the service . The data can be sent as soon as the data is collected on a pre determined schedule or a combination thereof.

One or more of the RFID readers A F can be configured to constantly or intermittently monitor for a nearby transponder e.g. a passing transponder or a transponder that has moved within range of the RFID reader . Such RFID readers can be helpful in monitoring areas where transponders are not expected to be or in monitoring transit points to monitor the progress of offenders in transit. When one of these RFID readers detects the presence of a transponder an alarm or message can be sent to the proper personnel such as through the server or the network . The message or alert can be a text or other content message to a mobile device an email e.g. including an attachment or other notification.

The data sent from the RFID readers A F to the server can be encrypted. The data from the RFID reader can be sent to a server that is running middleware e.g. software that provides services to a software application beyond those available from an operating system or an application that logically and physically runs between a sender and a receiver .

In one or more embodiments rather than using middleware or calling one or more services e.g. services provided over the internet or through the network with or without the internet the RFID reader can include one or more services which may be in the form of an application programming interface API database connectivity client or other logical element to perform the functions of the middleware or the service . An example of an RFID reader that can be used to perform the functions of the middleware or the service is the FX7400 RFID reader from Motorola Inc. of Schaumburg Ill.

The RFID reader E can include a screen configured to display information related to scanning a transponder . The RFID reader E can be configured to display such as on display a schedule to a user indicating when or where RFID reader E scans are to occur. The schedule can be retrieved from the database or the scheduling module .

The radar module can be situated near an RFID reader F so as to detect a number of offenders passing thereby or to detect a direction an offender is traveling. The radar module can be incorporated into an RFID reader . Including the radar module in the system can help a system determine the number of offenders the direction each offender is traveling or the like of a transponder within range of the radar module . Such information can be relayed to the server . The information sent to the server can be accompanied by an identification of the transponder and a nearby RFID reader .

The RFID reader can include one or more radar modules electrically or mechanically coupled thereto. An example of such a radar detector or people counter is the OBID i scan from Feig Electronic of Germany. Such radar detectors are operable to detect persons moving towards and going away from the radar or the associated RFID reader . The direction can be determined by transmitting a signal monitoring for signal reflections and detecting how much time it takes for the reflection to be detected by the radar detector.

A monitoring rule can include that the service is to validate the direction the offender was detected moving. When the service determines that the offender was moving in an unacceptable direction a system alert can be triggered and the system can make a record of the violation.

The transponder can transmit a unique identifying signal that is recognizable by an RFID reader . In one or more embodiments the transponder can emit the identifying signal in response to a signal sent from the RFID reader . The transponder can be incorporated into a bracelet a chip configured to be embedded in clothing an implantable device an identification card or may take some other form that allows the transponder to travel with an offender e.g. inmate or an item of interest. The transponder can be assigned to an individual offender or an entity at the secure facility other than an offender such as a detention center officer . In a system that includes a transponder associated with an entity at the secure facility the system can detect when the entity e.g. a detention center officer is near an offender .

The server can be configured to run a web application or middleware configured to implement or manage automatic offender documentation. The server can receive data from the RFID readers A F. The data received can include a unique identification ID key that identifies the RFID reader A F that sent the data. The server can look up the RFID reader ID and correlate a specific time or location with the RFID reader A F. The server can send the time location and RFID ID data to another server B such as at a data center .

The server can be part of a Local Area Network LAN or it can be hosted remotely. The middleware that can be accessible through the server can either be hosted locally e.g. through a LAN or remotely. The middleware can send data received or modified by the server or middleware to a service .

While the server B service and the database are depicted as individual units they may be implemented on one or more servers. For example the server B service and database may all be implemented on the same server or each may be implemented on its own server.

The web application can render web pages that can provide the functionality of the service to a user. The web application can be hosted locally such as on server A or remotely such as on server B.

The networked system can include the system coupled to the data center such as through a network e.g. the internet . Such a configuration can allow the data storage for and analysis of monitoring RFID reader and transponder interactions to be off site. The data center can include a firewall B coupled to a server B and a service such that the firewall B can help to ensure that the data sent to the server B and the service will not harm the server B or service . The server B can be coupled to a database such that the database can provide data to the server and receive data from the server B. The server B can be coupled to the service such that the service can provide functionality related to automated offender documentation to the server B. The data received at the server B can be used in rendering web pages to users. The database can be coupled to the service to provide data to the service and to receive and store the results of operations performed by the service .

The firewalls A B can scan incoming and outgoing data for malware to help reduce the chances of a malicious attack on the system . The firewall A can encrypt data that is outgoing or decrypt data that is incoming. The encryption or decryption can be accomplished using a separate encryption or decryption module and can be incorporated at different places in the system such as on an RFID reader so as to allow encrypted data sent to be sent to the server B.

The service can be deployed locally on the server B or hosted remotely. The service can retrieve programmable events currently assigned to an RFID reader . The programmable events can be stored in the database on the server A B or on the service . The service can run processes associated with a programmable event . For example the service can analyze organize or format collected data. The analyzed organized or collected data can be sent to the database for retention. The analysis can include comparing the data to monitoring rules associated with a programmable event . Such comparisons can monitor compliance and detect violations of the monitoring rules and an alarm alert or message can be sent to the proper personnel when a monitoring rule has been violated.

The service can correlate collected data. A correlation of data can help the service detect a violation of a monitoring rule . A correlation can be performed at an individual offender level a block level an entire building e.g. secure facility such as a detention center mental health facility or the like level or other level. For example the service can correlate all data associated with the same offender or a cellblock and compare that data to the monitoring rules relating to the offender or the cellblock to determine if the offenders comply with the monitoring rule or a violation has occurred. The service can compare one offender s data to another offender s data to determine if a monitoring rule violation has occurred. Such comparisons can be useful when a monitoring rule states that two or more offenders are to be kept separately not contact each other or otherwise not associate with each other. The service can be hosted locally as shown or can be hosted on the network e.g. cloud .

The service can receive and process data from the middleware . The processing can include authenticating a customer name. Authenticating a customer name can be done by verifying a customer s port number in examples where a customer has been assigned a unique port number. Authenticating can also include verifying RFID reader A F ID information and transponder A D ID information received is consistent and assigned to that customer. A user e.g. an end user can automate the running of programmable events through scheduling them through the service . A user can manually trigger a programmable event to for the service to execute. The user can customize the operations performed by the service in running a programmable event such as through the server A B or web application. The service can compare data received to monitoring rules and determine if a monitoring has been violated. The service can initiate an alert process in response to determining that a rule has been violated.

The database can store monitoring rules therein. The monitoring rules can define the relationship between or validate the performance expectations between a programmable event and a transponder . This can include cross referencing other monitoring rules e.g. restrictions or requirements associated with a given transponder . For example an offender could be restricted from moving or from entering a specific room or area of a building. The rule or restriction could be for punitive reasons health concerns safety concerns or the like. For example a monitoring rule can indicate that one or more inmates are to be kept separate at all times. The monitoring rule can have an associated duration in which the monitoring is valid and is to be referenced by the service . One or more monitoring rules can be associated with a specific offender such that when the offender is no longer in the building the monitoring rule is no longer referenced by the service .

The service can analyze the data received from the RFID readers A F and compare the received data to relevant monitoring rules to determine if an alert or message should be sent to the relevant personnel. If no violation is detected the service can initiate a sequence of operations e.g. a pre programmed sequence of operations processes or events to complete. For example the service can look for a violation of a user defined process rule e.g. an inmate is traveling the wrong direction or there are too many inmates in a specific area . The service can then search for violations of monitoring rules e.g. a first inmate cannot be in a specific area because a second inmate is already present in the area an inmate is not allowed to be in the rec area or other monitoring rule violation . The service can then continue to perform another process e.g. a user defined process such as documenting the locations of inmates that are within the range of an RFID reader . Future data received can be analyzed e.g. compared to monitoring rules in real time to determine if an alert or message is to be sent. When the analysis is complete the service can record that the analysis was completed in the database .

In the case of an Internet failure e.g. the Internet is temporarily unavailable the middleware can be configured to store received data in a local memory. When Internet connectivity is restored the received data can be sent to the service . Such a configuration can be helpful in embodiments that include Software as a Service SaaS or a remotely hosted server. The middleware can be configured to determine if a monitoring rule has been violated such as when the Internet connection to the service has failed. In one or more embodiments the middleware includes a subset of all the monitoring rules for a specific system. These monitoring rules can be the most important rules e.g. the rules that the user does not want violated . In one or more embodiments the service can determine if a monitoring rule has been violated after it has received the relevant data.

The middleware can reside on the server A or B locally or remotely respectively. In one or more embodiments the middleware can be hosted in a network e.g. cloud server. Such an implementation can provide automated offender documentation to a user through a Software as a Service SaaS configuration. The middleware can provide communication between the RFID readers A F and the data center . The middleware can be configured to encrypt data it receives from the RFID readers A F and send the encrypted data to the service server B or the database .

The database can store data from the RFID readers A B the service the web application or the server A B.

In this example if any of RFID readers B F or H J detects a transponder associated with the offender during the time of the travel and then an alert can be sent to the appropriate personnel. Similarly if radar modules A or D detect the transponder associated with the offender traveling in a direction inconsistent with the pre defined path an alert can be sent to the appropriate personnel.

One or more monitoring rules associated with the user defined process can stipulate that the RFID readers K M and G are to detect the transponder associated with the offender within a specified period of time. If any one of the RFID readers K M and G does not detect transponder within the specified period of time then an alert can be sent to the appropriate personnel. The radar module A and the RFID reader K can in combination determine the number of transponders passing by and the IDs of the transponders. This data can be used to determine if personnel e.g. personnel defined by the user defined process required to accompany the offender s in transit are accompanying the offender s to the destination. This data can also be used to determine if the correct number of offenders is in transit. If not then an alert can be sent to the proper personnel.

Current or historical movement data can be graphically represented on an electronic map of the facility such as the map of the facility shown in . Information pertinent to a movement can be overlaid at positions corresponding to where the information was collected.

At the data can be sent to a web service . At an alert that a monitoring rule was violated can be received from the web service . The monitoring rule can relate to the offender . At the alert can be sent to a device e.g. a mobile device associated with an entity responsible for the offender .

Computer readable instructions stored on a computer readable medium are executable by the processing unit of the computer . A hard drive CD ROM and RAM are some examples of articles including a non transitory computer readable medium. For example a computer program capable of providing a generic technique to perform access control check for data access and or for doing an operation on one of the servers in a component object model COM based system according to the teachings of the present invention may be included on a CD ROM and loaded from the CD ROM to a hard drive. The computer readable instructions allow computer to provide generic access controls in a COM based computer network system having multiple users and servers.

The functions or algorithms described herein are implemented in hardware software or a combination of software and hardware in some embodiments. The software comprises computer executable instructions stored on computer readable media such as memory or other type of storage devices. Further described functions may correspond to modules which may be software hardware firmware or any combination thereof. Multiple functions are performed in one or more modules as desired and the embodiments described are merely embodiments. The software is executed on a digital signal processor ASIC microprocessor or other type of processor operating on a system such as a personal computer server a router or other device capable of processing data including network interconnection devices.

Some embodiments implement the functions in two or more specific interconnected hardware modules or devices with related control and data signals communicated between and through the modules or as portions of an application specific integrated circuit. Thus the exemplary process flows are applicable to software firmware and hardware implementations.

Systems and methods of the present disclosure may be implemented on a mobile device as a mobile application web based application on a desktop computer as a computer application or a combination thereof. A mobile application may operate on a Smartphone tablet computer portable digital assistant PDA ruggedized mobile computer or other mobile device. The mobile device may be connected to the Internet or network via Wi Fi Wide Area Network WAN cellular connection WiMax or any other type of wired or wireless method of networking connection. In some embodiments a web based application may be delivered as a software as a service SaaS package e.g. cloud based embodiments accessible via a device app a web browser application or other suitable application depending on the particular embodiment.

In this document the terms a or an are used as is common in patent documents to include one or more than one independent of any other instances or usages of at least one or one or more. In this document the term or is used to refer to a nonexclusive or such that A or B includes A but not B B but not A and A and B unless otherwise indicated. In this document the terms including and in which are used as the plain English equivalents of the respective terms comprising and wherein. Also in the following claims the terms including and comprising are open ended that is a system device article composition formulation or process that includes elements in addition to those listed after such a term in a claim are still deemed to fall within the scope of that claim. Moreover in the following claims the terms first second and third etc. are used merely as labels and are not intended to impose numerical requirements on their objects.

Although an embodiment has been described with reference to specific example embodiments it will be evident that various modifications and changes may be made to these embodiments without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the invention. Accordingly the specification and drawings are to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense. The accompanying drawings that form a part hereof show by way of illustration and not of limitation specific embodiments in which the subject matter may be practiced. The embodiments illustrated are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice the teachings disclosed herein. Other embodiments may be utilized and derived therefrom such that structural and logical substitutions and changes may be made without departing from the scope of this disclosure. This Detailed Description therefore is not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of various embodiments is defined only by the appended claims along with the full range of equivalents to which such claims are entitled.

