---

title: Systems, apparatus, and methods for treating waste materials
abstract: Systems and methods for a pyrolytic oven for processing waste include multiple zones associated with multiple independently-controlled heating sources. The pyrolytic oven may have multiple sensors also associated with each zone. The pyrolytic oven may also include a fuel management system which adjusts a power level of each heating source for each zone independently based on a reading of the corresponding sensor.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09568190&OS=09568190&RS=09568190
owner: 
number: 09568190
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20150615
---
This application claims the benefit of priority to U.S. Provisional Application 62 013 436 filed Jun. 17 2014 and U.S. Provisional Application 62 011 903 filed Jun. 13 2014 the contents of which are incorporated by reference in their entireties. Where a definition or use of a term in a reference that is incorporated by reference is inconsistent or contrary to the definition of that term provided herein the definition of that term provided herein is deemed to be controlling.

The background description includes information that can be useful in understanding the present invention. It is not an admission that any of the information provided herein is prior art or relevant to the presently claimed invention or that any publication specifically or implicitly referenced is prior art.

Waste management and the creation of renewable energy are common problems in many nations. Pyrolysis which can be used to turn waste into renewable energy is one solution to both problems. Pyrolysis involves using high temperatures in a relatively oxygen free environment to decompose waste materials also known as feedstock to generate a synthetic gas or syngas. The syngas can then be burned to produce renewable energy. Common feedstocks include trash old tires and other municipal industrial agricultural or domestic wastes.

Pyrolysis is normally performed using a pyrolytic oven. The pyrolytic oven provides the heat and the necessary environment for pyrolysis to occur. A pyrolytic oven s efficiency is achieved by maximizing the heat transfer from the oven to the feedstock to ensure that the feedstock is completely heated and processed. This can be a challenge because feedstocks can vary greatly in composition and base temperature. In an attempt to increase efficiency some previous pyrolitic oven designs have sought to improve the way that the feedstock is heated and cycled through the oven. For example U.S. Pat. No. 6 619 214 to Walker teaches a pyrolytic converter with a screw and paddle conveyor system which allows the feedstock to be mixed lifted and pushed through the pyrolytic oven. U.S. Pat. No. 7 832 343 to Walker and Bertram teaches a pyrolyzer with dual processing shafts and heat transfer fins to transfer heat to the heating chamber. However both of these approaches are still inefficient at processing waste.

All publications identified herein are incorporated by reference to the same extent as if each individual publication or patent application were specifically and individually indicated to be incorporated by reference. Where a definition or use of a term in an incorporated reference is inconsistent or contrary to the definition of that term provided herein the definition of that term provided herein applies and the definition of that term in the reference does not apply.

Another important design consideration for pyrolytic ovens is durability. Pyrolytic ovens generally must be able operate efficiently at sustained high temperatures. The expansion and contraction of metals from heating and cooling can greatly impact the durability of the oven. Increasing the durability of a pyrolitic oven can lower engineering construction and maintenance costs.

Thus there is still a need for improving both the efficiency and durability of pyrolytic ovens while decreasing overall construction operational and maintenance costs.

One aspect of the present inventive subject matter is directed to a fuel management system of a pyrolytic oven. The fuel management system includes a fuel management engine and a pyrolytic oven. The pyrolytic oven has an elongated heating chamber that is divided into multiple zones along the elongated dimension.

In some embodiments the zones of the heating chamber are distinct portions along the elongated dimension of the heating chamber. Preferably the zones do not overlap with one another. However in some embodiments the portions of the zones may interconnect or overlap.

The pyrolytic oven also includes multiple independently controllable heat sources which correspond to the different zones of the heating chamber. In some embodiments at least one heat source corresponds to each zone to provide heat for the corresponding zone. Preferably different heat sources correspond to different zones such that no heat source is responsible for providing heat to more than one zone. In some embodiments a heat source can include a gas burner electric burner or any other commercially suitable heat source. In some embodiments the heat sources are located beneath the heating chamber although it is contemplated that the heat sources may be dispersed around the sides or top of the heating chamber.

In some embodiments the fuel management engine is communicatively coupled to the heat sources and is programmed to independently control each heat source of the pyrolytic oven. The fuel management system accomplishes this by dynamically determining a power level for each heat source then controlling each heat source based on the determined power level. The determined power levels of each heat source may be different.

In preferred embodiments the fuel management system also includes sensors which correspond to different zones of the heating chamber. The sensors can be disposed within or near their corresponding zones of the heating chamber for detecting and monitoring sensor data associated with the corresponding zones. The sensors for each zone can include at least one of a temperature sensor a humidity sensor a weight sensor etc. The sensors are also communicatively coupled to the fuel management engine. In these embodiments the fuel management engine is programmed to retrieve or obtain sensor data from the sensors that correspond to the different zones of the heating chamber and to dynamically determine a power level required for each heat source based on the obtained sensor data. Upon determining a power level required for each heat source the fuel management engine is programmed to configure the heat source based on the determined power level. In some embodiments the fuel management engine is programmed to configure the heat source by adjusting the power state of the heat source based on the determined power level.

In order to dynamically determine power levels for the heat sources the fuel management engine of some embodiments is programmed to continuously and iteratively retrieve sensor data from the sensors corresponding to the different zones. Different embodiments of the fuel management engine provides different interval for retrieving obtaining sensor data from the sensors e.g. every second every 5 seconds every 10 seconds every of a second every of a second etc. . Whenever new readings of the sensor data are retrieved obtained the fuel management engine is programmed to determine a new power level for each heat source and to configure the heat source e.g. adjusting the power state of the heat source based on the newly determined power level.

As such the fuel management engine is programmed to determine a first power level for a first zone of the heating chamber based on a reading of sensor data from the sensors corresponding to the first zone and determine a second power level for a second zone of the heating chamber based on a reading of sensor data from the sensors corresponding to the second zone. Since the condition of the feedstock at different zones may vary and the reading of sensor data from the sensors corresponding to different zones also may vary the fuel management engine is programmed to determine a different power level for different zones and different heat sources.

Another aspect of the inventive subject matter is directed toward a method for treating waste materials in a pyrolytic oven. The pyrolytic oven has an elongated heating chamber that is divided into multiple zones along the elongated dimension. Additionally the pyrolytic has multiple independently controllable heat sources corresponding with each zone.

In some embodiments a method for treating waste materials includes the step of feeding a waste load through the heating chamber and dynamically adjusting the power level of the heat sources corresponding with each of the zones. Preferably the method also includes the step of adjusting the power level of each heat source corresponding with each zone independently from the power levels of other heat sources.

It is further contemplated that in some embodiments the pyrolytic oven also includes a temperature sensor corresponding with each zone. In these embodiments the method includes the step of monitoring by the temperature sensors a temperature of each zone from the plurality of zones. Some embodiments include the step of dynamically determining a power level for each heat source by monitoring the temperature for each zone then adjusting the power level for each heat source based on the reading from the corresponding temperature sensor. In some embodiments the method includes the step of monitoring a temperature of each zone via the temperature sensors at a frequency such as 1 Hz 2 Hz and 5 Hz.

In some embodiments the method includes the step of determining a power level of one heat source based on a corresponding temperature sensor in a corresponding zone then determining a power level of different heat source based on a corresponding temperature sensor in a different zone. In these embodiments the step of determining a power level for a heat source is performed independently than the step of determining the power levels of other heat sources. In some embodiments the power levels of each heat source are different. However the power levels of each heat source may also be the same.

It is also contemplated that in some embodiments the method includes the step of feeding the waste load through the heating chamber continuously.

Another aspect of the inventive subject matter is directed to a burner assembly of a pyrolytic oven that is universal to different fuel types. The burner assembly includes a burner box. In some embodiments the burner box is insulated. In some embodiments the burner box is rectangular.

The burner box includes a venturi structure which resides within the burner box. In some embodiments the burner assembly includes a gas line connected to a side wall the burner box and to the venturi structure. In some embodiments the burner box also contains temperature sensors igniters and flow regulators. Additionally in some embodiments the burner box contains more than one venturi structure and additional venturi structures are coupled to the same gas line or to an additional gas line. In preferred embodiments the gas line is configured to transport propane methane ethane natural gas liquefied petroleum gas LPG landfill gas LFG digester gas sewer gas swamp gas or other commercially viable hydrocarbon containing fuels or blends of fuels. In some embodiments the gas line is coupled to an actuator which can be programmed to adjust the flow rate of the fuel through the gas line.

In some embodiments the venturi structure has end members a central pin spanning between the end members and side members also spanning between the end members. Preferably the side members are L shaped and have a length greater than the length of the end members. In some embodiments the central pin is hollow. However the subcomponents of the venturi structure may have other shapes and dimensions.

Another aspect of the inventive subject matter provides for a support structure for supporting a pyrolytic oven with an elongated heating chamber with respect to a supporting platform. The support structure includes a wing structure.

In some contemplated embodiments the elongated heating chamber is suspended with respect to a supporting platform by a gusset. In these embodiments the gusset is connected to a wing structure which spans substantially along the length of the heating chamber. In some embodiments the heating chamber gussets and wing structure are all made of different metallic alloys however one or more may be made of the same alloy.

In some embodiments the wing structure spans 70 80 or 90 along the length of the heating chamber. Also in most embodiments the wing structure has a lip portion or flange that exerts against the heating chamber at a higher pressure as the wing structure is heated up. In particular in some embodiments the wing structure may not contact the heating chamber at room temperature between 61 and 79 F. but may contact the heating chamber at a higher temperature. In some embodiments the support structure includes an insulating material disposed between the wing structure and the heating chamber.

In some embodiments the pyrolytic oven includes a plurality of heat sources disposed beneath the heating chamber.

A final aspect of the inventive subject matter is directed toward a heating chamber of a pyrolytic oven with an inner tongue and groove structure.

In some embodiments the heating chamber has inner panels each with tongue and groove structures along an edge. In these embodiments the tongue of one inner panel is sized to fit within the groove of a corresponding inner panel to form an interlock. In some embodiments the heating chamber has multiple inner panels with multiple tongue and groove interlocks. Additionally it is contemplated that in some embodiments these interlocks occur along an inner ridge of the heating chamber. In some embodiments the heating chamber has a general reverse or upside down heart shape.

In some embodiments a panel has both a tongue and groove immediately adjacent to one another along one edge. It is also contemplated that in some embodiments the thickness of a tongue on one inner panel is substantially identical to the thickness of a corresponding panel.

Various objects features aspects and advantages of the inventive subject matter will become more apparent from the following detailed description of preferred embodiments along with the accompanying drawing figures in which like numerals represent like components.

Throughout the following discussion numerous references will be made regarding servers services interfaces engines modules clients peers portals platforms or other systems formed from computing devices. It should be appreciated that the use of such terms is deemed to represent one or more computing devices having at least one processor e.g. ASIC FPGA DSP x86 ARM ColdFire GPU multi core processors etc. configured to execute software instructions stored on a computer readable tangible non transitory medium e.g. hard drive solid state drive RAM flash ROM etc. . For example a server can include one or more computers operating as a web server database server or other type of computer server in a manner to fulfill described roles responsibilities or functions. One should further appreciate the disclosed computer based algorithms processes methods or other types of instruction sets can be embodied as a computer program product comprising a non transitory tangible computer readable media storing the instructions that cause a processor to execute the disclosed steps. The various servers systems databases or interfaces can exchange data using standardized protocols or algorithms possibly based on HTTP HTTPS AES public private key exchanges web service APIs known financial transaction protocols or other electronic information exchanging methods. Data exchanges can be conducted over a packet switched network a circuit switched network the Internet LAN WAN VPN or other type of network.

The terms configured to and programmed to in the context of a processor refer to being programmed by a set of software instructions to perform a function or set of functions.

The following discussion provides many example embodiments. Although each embodiment represents a single combination of components this disclosure contemplates combinations of the disclosed components. Thus for example if one embodiment comprises components A B and C and a second embodiment comprises components B and D then the other remaining combinations of A B C or D are included in this disclosure even if not explicitly disclosed.

As used herein and unless the context dictates otherwise the term coupled to is intended to include both direct coupling in which two elements that are coupled to each other contact each other and indirect coupling in which at least one additional element is located between the two elements . Therefore the terms coupled to and coupled with are used synonymously.

In some embodiments numerical parameters expressing quantities are used. It is to be understood that such numerical parameters may not be exact and are instead to be understood as being modified in some instances by the term about. Accordingly in some embodiments a numerical parameter is an approximation that can vary depending upon the desired properties sought to be obtained by a particular embodiment.

As used in the description herein and throughout the claims that follow the meaning of a an and the includes plural reference unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. Also as used in the description herein the meaning of in includes in and on unless the context clearly dictates otherwise.

Unless the context dictates the contrary ranges set forth herein should be interpreted as being inclusive of their endpoints and open ended ranges should be interpreted to include only commercially practical values. The recitation of ranges of values herein is merely intended to serve as a shorthand method of referring individually to each separate value falling within the range. Unless otherwise indicated herein each individual value within a range is incorporated into the specification as if it were individually recited herein. Similarly all lists of values should be considered as inclusive of intermediate values unless the context indicates the contrary.

Methods described herein can be performed in any suitable order unless otherwise indicated herein or otherwise clearly contradicted by context. The use of any and all examples or exemplary language e.g. such as provided with respect to certain embodiments herein is intended merely to better illuminate the described concepts and does not pose a limitation on the scope of the disclosure. No language in the specification should be construed as indicating any non claimed essential component.

Groupings of alternative elements or embodiments of the inventive subject matter disclosed herein are not to be construed as limitations. Each group member can be referred to and claimed individually or in any combination with other members of the group or other elements found herein. One or more members of a group can be included in or deleted from a group for reasons of convenience and or patentability. When any such inclusion or deletion occurs the specification is herein deemed to contain the group as modified thus fulfilling the written description of all Markush groups used in the appended claims.

Pyrolysis is a process of decomposing materials by applying high temperatures to the materials in a pyrolytic oven often in the absence of oxygen or halogen. The decomposable materials are often referred to as feedstocks. While pyrolysis is usually associated with the processing of waste materials e.g. trash tires and other municipal industrial agricultural or domestic wastes a feedstock can also include any organic or inorganic materials such as food charcoal biochar coke carbon fiber pyrolytic carbon plastic waste biofuel or any other substance in a commercially viable application that is meant to undergo pyrolysis. The pyrolytic oven is an apparatus in which a feedstock is decomposed through pyrolysis. The term pyrolytic oven is synonymous with pyrolytic converter thermal oxidation system thermal converter pyrolyzer or pyrolytic reactor. 

Pyrolytic oven has a feedstock input front airlocks dual conveyors conveyor motors syngas output heating chamber assembly and heat sources . In some embodiments feedstock input is configured to receive feedstock and pass the feedstock into pyrolytic oven . Different embodiments of the feedstock input can comprise different structures. For example feedstock input can include at least one of the following structures a chute pipe shaft funnel slide conduit or other structure for conveying a feedstock. In some embodiments feedstock input further comprises front airlocks . Front airlocks are configured to prevent oxygen from entering into the system. Examples of front airlocks include rotary airlocks knife valves and any other commercially suitable airlock. Feedstock input is coupled to the front end of heating chamber assembly such that the feedstock will be passed into the heating chamber not shown of the heating chamber assembly via dual conveyors . As used herein heating chamber refers to an inner chamber or vessel where materials are heated distilled decomposed or processed by the application of heat. The heating chamber may alternatively refer to a retort or a retort oven or any other commercially similar structure where materials can be processed heated distilled decomposed or processed by the application of heat.

Dual conveyors are also configured to push the feedstock through heating chamber assembly of the pyrolytic oven . Dual conveyors can be screw augers screw conveyors conveyor belts or any other commercially equivalent mechanism for transporting solid and liquid material. Although pyrolytic oven is shown to have a dual conveyor in it is contemplated that pyrolytic ovens of some embodiments can be equipped with a single conveyor or with more than two conveyors. Additionally both continuous feed and non continuous feed systems are also contemplated. Continuous feed systems can use augers conveyor belts or similar means to transport a feedstock continuously through the oven. Non continuous systems require the feedstock to be placed in oven prior to processing then removed after processing before additional feedstock can be processed.

In some embodiments processing the feedstock in pyrolytic oven results in at least syngas and char. Syngas refers to the gaseous byproduct of a pyrolytic reaction. The syngas can comprise a fuel gas mixture consisting of hydrogen carbon monoxide and carbon dioxide. Additionally or alternatively the syngas can comprise other elements or components. Syngas can be used as an intermediate in creating synthetic natural gas ammonia methanol synthetic petroleum or similar products and their derivatives. Char means a solid liquid or semi solid byproduct of a pyrolytic reaction and can include charcoal biochar etc. Other contemplated byproducts of the pyrolytic reaction in pyrolytic oven include steam energy biochar or biofuels. In some embodiments pyrolytic oven includes syngas output that is coupled to heating chamber assembly . Syngas output is configured to allow syngas produced during decomposition of feedstock within heating chamber assembly to exit pyrolytic oven . Preferably syngas output is coupled to the heating chamber assembly at a location near the back end of the heating chamber assembly as the majority of the syngas is being produced during the later stage of the decomposition. Syngas output can be a chute pipe shaft funnel slide or conduit etc.

Heat sources are configured to provide heat to the heating chamber for decomposing the feedstock. Each one of the heat sources can include one or more gas burners electric burners jet burners heat exchangers steam heat sources coal burners and or liquid fuel burners etc. Besides gas burners various methods are contemplated to provide heat to the feedstock including electric heating elements e.g. electric burners partial combustion through air injection direct heat transfer from a hot gas indirect heat transfer with exchange surfaces such as the wall of heating chamber assembly or tubes and direct heat transfer from circulating solids or other commercially viable means for heating. In this example heat sources are located beneath heating chamber assembly to provide indirect heat to the feedstock via the wall enclosure of the heat chamber. However heat sources can alternatively be located on the side or on the top of the pyrolytic oven .

In some embodiments pyrolytic oven operates independently to decompose feedstock and produce syngas while in other embodiments pyrolytic oven is part of a larger waste processing train and integrated with other standard equipments to generate energy steam biochar or biofuels etc.

It is contemplated that a feedstock can vary in composition which may affect its decomposition characteristics. Additionally different compositions of feedstock may require application of different amounts of heat for optimal decomposition to occur. Thus in one aspect of the inventive subject matter an energy efficient pyrolytic system is provided. In some embodiments the pyrolytic system includes a pyrolytic oven having a heating chamber divided into multiple zones along an elongated dimension of the heating chamber. The pyrolytic system also includes multiple independently controllable heat sources. In some embodiments each independently controllable heat source corresponds to a zone of the heating chamber and configured to provide heat for feedstock within the zone. The multiple independently controllable heat sources are communicatively coupled to a fuel management system that is programmed to configure the heat sources. By configuring the independently controllable heat sources the fuel management system can provide different amounts of heat to different zones depending on the condition of the feedstock within the zones. Thus it is also contemplated that the pyrolytic system includes sensors that are placed within or near the different zones of the heating chamber to detect and monitor the condition of the feedstock. The sensors are communicatively coupled to the fuel management system to provide real time information of the feedstock to the fuel management system. The fuel management system is then programmed to configure the heat sources based on the real time information.

As shown the heating chamber has an elongated dimension that extends from the front end of the heating chamber assembly to the back end of the heating chamber assembly. In some embodiments heating chamber is divided into multiple zones along its elongated dimension . Preferably the multiple zones are non overlapping. In some embodiments the multiple zones are not separated by any barriers within the heating chamber they only represent a different spatial section within the chamber along the elongated dimension however zones which are physically separated by a barrier are also contemplated. Additionally the zones may be interconnected or may overlap.

As shown at least one heat source from the multiple heat sources and at least one sensor from the multiple zone sensors correspond to each of the multiple zones . For example heat source and zone sensor correspond to zone heat source and zone sensor correspond to zone heat source and zone sensor correspond to zone heat source and zone sensor correspond to zone and heat source and zone sensor correspond to zone . Each heat source is configured to provide indirect heat to the feedstock when the feedstock is located within its corresponding zone as the feedstock passes through the heating chamber .

It is contemplated that zone sensors can be located anywhere within the heating chamber . For example the sensors can be disposed inside the heating chamber on the exterior enclosure of the heating chamber on the interior wall of the heating chamber etc. Additionally each zone sensor can include one or more types of sensor unit for detecting a property of the zone or the feedstock including but not limited to a temperature sensor a humidity sensor a scale weight sensor a camera a spectroscopic sensor a spectral scanner a particle detector a flame scanner and a gas detector. For example the first zone can comprise a first set of sensors configured to monitor a temperature and a composition of the feedstock in the first zone and the second zone can comprise a second set of sensors configured to monitor a temperature and a composition of the feedstock in the second zone.

In this example heat sources are disposed immediately beneath the heating chamber but other locations for the heat sources are possible. It is further contemplated that the heat sources can comprise at least a gas burner an electric burner or any other commercially viable heat source. As mentioned above heat sources are independently controllable. That is different settings e.g. heat power burner height flow rate of each heat source can be configured e.g. adjusted independently from the other heat sources within the pyrolytic system .

As shown heat sources and zone sensors are communicatively coupled to fuel management system . In some embodiments heat sources and zone sensors are communicatively coupled to fuel management system locally via a cable e.g. Ethernet cable USB cable Firewire cable etc. . In some other embodiments heat sources and zone sensors are communicatively coupled to fuel management system wirelessly via a short range wireless protocol e.g. WiFi Bluetooth etc. . In yet some other embodiments the fuel management system is distal from the pyrolytic oven and is communicatively coupled to heat sources and zone sensors over a network e.g. local area network wide area network wireless network the Internet etc. . In these embodiments the pyrolytic oven also includes a network interface to facilitate communication between heat sources zone sensors and the fuel management system .

In some embodiments the fuel management system includes one or more computing devices. The computing devices has at least one processor and memory that stores software instructions which when executed by the at least one processor programs the at least one processor to perform functions and features associated with the fuel management system . The fuel management system of some embodiments is programmed to obtain or retrieve real time or substantially real time sensor data from the zone sensors . As used herein the term real time is defined as within 0.1 seconds. Sensor data that is obtained from zone sensors include at least one of the following temperature data humidity data weight data image data etc.

Upon retrieving the sensor data from zone sensors fuel management system is programmed to analyze the sensor data to determine characteristics of the feedstock located in each of the multiple zones . In some embodiments the fuel management system is programmed to generate a feedstock profile for each of the multiple zones . Based on the feedstock profile of a zone the fuel management system is programmed to configure the heat source corresponding to that zone to optimize the decomposition of feedstock located within the zone.

Pyrolytic oven includes zone sensors e.g. zone sensors heat sources e.g. heat sources conveyor and a network interface for facilitating communication between the zone sensors the heat sources the conveyor and the fuel management system .

As mentioned above the heat sources and sensors correspond to different zones of the heating chamber such that each zone has at least one corresponding and distinctive sensor and heat source. Each of the sensors and heat sources has an interface e.g. application programming interface API etc. that allows other computing devices or systems to access them. For example the fuel management system can actively retrieve sensor data from the sensors via the sensors APIs and configure the settings e.g. power level state of the heat source via the heat sources APIs.

Database comprises one or more non transitory electronic storage medium e.g. hard drive flash drive etc. that stores different types of information for the fuel management system . For example database may store information related to the sensors the heat sources and the different zones of the pyrolytic oven . The information related can be a priori information or can be extracted by the fuel management system by communication with the sensors and heat sources . The information can include a relative location of each zone i.e. the location of the zone relative to the other zones and a size of each zone. The information can also include a mapping of each zone to its corresponding sensors and heat sources. Furthermore the information can also include attributes of the sensors e.g. sensor type type of sensor data measurement unit etc. and attributes of the heat sources e.g. the different adjustable power levels such as low medium high etc. .

In some embodiments fuel management module of the fuel management system is programmed to actively retrieve sensor data from sensors via the sensor interface . As mentioned above the retrieved sensor can include at least one of the following temperature data humidity data weight data etc. In some embodiments fuel management module is programmed to retrieve the sensor data from sensors on a periodic basis e.g. every second every 5 seconds every 10 seconds every second every second . Fuel management module is then programmed to pass the sensor data to analytics module . Analytics module is programmed to retrieve the information related to the sensors the heat sources and the zones from the database and then analyze the sensor data in view of the retrieved information. Based on the analysis analytics module of some embodiments is programmed to generate a feedstock profile for each zone. The feedstock profile of each zone can include information such as a weight of the feedstock a temperature of the feedstock an ambient temperature of the zone a humidity of the zone composition of the feed stock etc. Analytics module is then programmed to determine a required heat level for each zone according to a set of rules and generate instructions to configure the settings for the heat sources . In some embodiments configure the settings for a heat source include adjusting a power level state e.g. from high to medium from low to medium etc. of a heat source. Based on the sensor data fuel management system may configure different settings for the heat sensors of different zones based on the feedstock profiles of the zones.

In addition to configuring the heat sources fuel management system of some embodiments is also programmed to configure conveyor air locks and any other elements of the pyrolytic oven that are communicatively coupled to fuel management system based on the feedstock profiles of the zones. Similar to the process above fuel management system is programmed to generate instructions to configure conveyor and air locks based on the feedstock profiles of the different zones. For example fuel management system can configure conveyor to slow down when temperature data of the different zones show that the feedstock is not hot enough and thus not effectively decomposed within the heating chamber. On the other hand fuel management system can configure conveyor to speed up when temperature data of the different zones show that the feedstock is too hot and thus wasting heat and energy as the feedstock is completely decomposed prior to reaching the back end of the heating chamber of pyrolytic oven .

As shown fuel management system is also communicatively coupled to a user computer . In some embodiments fuel management module provides a user interface e.g. a graphical user interface GUI that enables an administrator of the pyrolytic system to monitor progress of the pyrolytic process within pyrolytic oven and to modify the rules that govern the manner in which analytics module generate instructions based on the retrieved sensor data. In some embodiments the fuel management system allows the user to configure the settings via the user interface.

In some embodiments fuel management system is programmed to save and store a log of the sensor data and instructions to the heat sources conveyor and air locks in database . Once analytics module has generated instructions to configure heat sources fuel management module is programmed to send to each of the heat sources via the heat source interface the respective configuration instructions. The heat sources automatically adjust their settings upon receiving the instructions from the fuel management system . As mentioned above fuel management system is programmed to dynamically adjust the settings of heat sources to maximize the energy efficiency of the pyrolytic oven . As such fuel management system continues to periodically retrieve sensor data from sensors generate feedstock profiles for the zones based on the latest sensor data and configure heat sources according to the generated feedstock profiles for the zones. This way the heat sources are always providing the optimal amount of heat for the decomposition process of the feedstock within the chamber depending on the condition of the feedstock in each zone.

In one example fuel management system is programmed to maintain a constant temperature across the different zones. If fuel management system detects that the temperature of one zone decreases with respect to the temperature of other zones fuel management system is programmed to increase the power level of the heat source s corresponding to that zone thereby increasing the temperature of the zone.

In another example fuel management system is programmed to maintain a certain temperature for each individual zone. The temperature assigned to each zone can be determined before the pyrolytic operation begins and can be adjusted during the operation. In addition the temperatures that fuel management system is programmed to maintain for the different zones can be different from one another. In this example fuel management system is programmed to continuously and periodically retrieve temperature readings from the temperature sensors corresponding to the different zones. When the retrieved temperature data of one zone indicates that it has a higher temperature reading than the required temperature setting fuel management system is programmed to reduce the power level of the heat source s corresponding to that zone. Similarly when the retrieved temperature data of one zone indicates that it has a lower temperature reading than the required temperature setting fuel management system is programmed to increase the power level of the heat source s corresponding to that zone.

In another example fuel management engine is programmed to maintain the temperature of the zone the zone closest to the front end of the pyrolytic oven to be 10 20 or 50 degrees Fahrenheit hotter than the temperature of the other zones. Accordingly fuel management system is programmed to retrieve temperature data from the feedstock profile of zone and compare the temperature of zone with the temperature data of the other zones. When the retrieved temperature data of zone has a higher or lower temperature reading than the other zones fuel management system is programmed to increase or decrease the power level of the heat source s corresponding with zone .

Prior pyrolytic ovens teach the use of burners located at the front of the oven. These ovens often use fans or other means to circulate heat around the top sides and bottom of the heating chamber with the idea to make the heat applied to the entire oven as uniform as possible. In contrast in preferred embodiments heat sources are located along the elongated dimension below the heating chamber such that the heat produced by the plurality of heat sources is concentrated along the bottom of the heating chamber such that the distance between the feedstock and the heat sources is minimized. This allows heat to be focused on where it is most needed for pyrolysis. Additionally this means that temperatures in each zone along the elongated dimension may vary as needed.

In some embodiments the method is preferably performed by a fuel management system. In process begins with the fuel management system actively detecting at step a feedstock in the heating chamber. After detecting the feedstock the fuel management system actively retrieves at step sensor data of multiple sensors corresponding to the different zones. Next the fuel management system determines the feedstock profile by deriving the condition of each zone based on the reading from the sensors step . After generating the feedstock profile the fuel management system determines the power level for each heat source corresponding with each zone step . After the power level for each zone has been determined the fuel management system adjusts the power level for each heat source corresponding with each zone step . The fuel management system checks to see if the feedstock is still in the oven step . If the feedstock is still in the heating chamber then the fuel management system can run steps again. If the feedstock is no longer in the heating chamber the fuel management system can stop monitoring and adjusting the temperature of the oven.

In preferred embodiments the method can further comprises continuously feeding the waste load through the heating chamber via screw augers or a conveyor. In these embodiments the method would be performed continuously as long as a feedstock is detected in the heating chamber. It is contemplated that some pyrolytic ovens will not be configured to continuously process a feed stock. In these embodiments the method additionally comprises the step of feeding a feedstock into the heating chamber and removing the feedstock from the heating chamber.

The benefits of having such an independently controllable heating system for the oven include achieving optimal efficiency regardless of the type of feedstock an amount of feedstock and a flow rate of the feedstock.

It is contemplated that different fuel types e.g. propane natural gas syngas methane ethanol have different properties such as density gas pressure etc. As a result many prior art pyrolytic ovens require a retrofit in order to utilize different fuel types. Thus one aspect of the inventive subject matter provides for a burner assembly system that is dynamically universal to different gas fuel types without requiring a retrofit. In some embodiments the burner assembly system includes a burner box containing at least one venturi burner structure coupled to a gas line. In some embodiments the gas line is coupled to a flow regulator and the burner assembly system also includes a temperature sensor. The flow regulator and the temperature system are communicatively coupled to the burner assembly system which is programmed to adjust the flow rate of fuel via the flow regulator based on feedback from the temperature sensor. By configuring the flow rate of fuel via the flow regulator the burner assembly system can dynamically adjust to different fuel types.

As shown in burner box has gas lines which extend through a side wall of burner box and couple with venturi structure . In some embodiments gas lines are configured to transport more than one type of fuel such as propane natural gas syngas methane ethane ethanol liquefied petroleum gas LPG landfill gas LFG digester gas sewer gas biogas blended gases or other commercially viable hydrocarbon based fuel sources. Preferred fuels contain hydrocarbon chains with five or less carbon atoms. In some embodiments gas lines are configured to supply fuel to a renewable fuel burning pyrolytic oven. In these embodiments gas lines supply the pyrolytic oven with a fuel mixture with 50 25 10 or 0 fossil fuels. In some embodiments burner assembly is capable of an output of 0.25 0.5 1 and 2 million BTU and provides for indirect heating of a feedstock in a heating chamber of a pyrolytic oven.

In preferred embodiments gas line contains a series of perforations or orifices not shown directly under venturi structures which allow fuel to exit the gas line and enter venturi structures where the fuel is ignited. Some prior gas burner assemblies such as flex fuel burners are capable of burning different fuel types but require a retrofit in order to change the orifice size. For example some prior art burners require the addition or replacement of a fuel plate to adjust the orifice size to accommodate different fuels. For example in some prior art burners the orifice size for natural gas must be larger than the orifice size for propane. Retrofitting these burners requires the oven to be shut down in order to replace the fuel plate. One advantage of the present inventive subject matter is that the orifice size does not need to be changed. The burner assembly can dynamically adjust in real time to accommodate different fuel types and blends of different fuel types.

As shown in gas line is coupled to a flow regulator . As shown in only one branch of gas line is coupled to flow regulator however some embodiments each branch of gas line is coupled to a corresponding flow regulator. Flow regulator can be any commercially viable device or mechanism for controlling the flow of gas through gas line including a control valve actuator a pneumatic actuator a modulating actuator an electric actuator a piston actuator a direct spring acting actuator a diaphragm actuator radial diaphragm aperture etc. In preferred embodiments flow regulator is located upstream from the orifice however in some embodiments the flow regulator may work by constricting and expanding the orifice size. Additionally in some embodiments gas lines may include other instrumentation for monitoring the quality composition or flow of the fuel such actuators dampers pressure gauges etc.

In one example the burner assembly system is capable of dynamically adjusting to accommodate different gas fuel types. In this example the burner assembly is coupled to a burner assembly system. The burner assembly system receives input from a temperature sensor corresponding each burner box. If the temperature corresponding with the burner box is too high for example the burner assembly system will decrease the flow of fuel through gas line by controlling flow regulator . Because different compositions of gas fuels may burn at different temperatures at different pressures this configuration allows burner box to accommodate different fuel types without changing the gas line orifice size.

In another example burner box can dynamically adjust to burn various types of fuels and blends of fuels. For example burner box may initially burn propane however in the process of time landfill gas LFG may become an available and desirable fuel source. In this case burner box can dynamically adjust to process a mixture of propane and LFG without requiring any retrofit by adjusting flow regulator i.e. increase or decrease the flow of fuel to maintain a desired output temperature.

In another example burner box can burn a fuel such as a digester gas which may have a varying composition over time as it is fed through gas line . For example the concentration of methane in the digester gas may initially be 55 then may increase to 65 over time. Because a higher methane concentration may cause the digester gas to burn at a higher temperature at the same fuel flow rate the fuel management system can decrease the flow of digester gas through gas line via flow regulator in order to decrease the overall temperature of the pyrolytic oven.

As shown in burner assembly has burner box . In burner box has a general rectangular shape with four supporting walls however it is contemplated that burner box could have another suitable shape such as a general cube shape a general cylindrical shape etc. In some embodiments burner box houses the burner assembly components such as venturi structures refractory igniter gas lines etc. As shown in burner box can have a flange which couples to a pyrolytic oven via screws bolts rivets studs or similar means. This allows the burner box to be removed for repairs. In some embodiments burner box can be welded or otherwise permanently attached to the pyrolytic oven.

In burner box is lined by refractory . In some embodiments the purpose of refractory is to direct the flow of heat up toward the pyrolytic oven while minimizing the passage of heat through the walls of burner box . It is contemplated that refractory may be made of a material which impedes reflects the passage of heat including reflectors refractors foams rubbers or similar commercially viable materials. Additionally in some embodiments burner box includes an air intake hole not pictured located in the bottom of the box which supplies the necessary oxygen for combustion.

In some embodiments venturi structures are coupled directly to gas lines . In other embodiments venturi structures are connected to gas lines via a connector not shown . The connector can adjust the height of venturi structures with respect to the pyrolytic oven. This can be done manually or dynamically as controlled by a fuel management system. For example one way that a fuel management system could adjust the power level of a burner assembly would be to raise venturi structures so that they are closer to the heating chamber of the pyrolytic oven. The connector could be raised and lowered or extended or shortened via servos hydraulics or similar means.

In some embodiments lower portion is partially divided from upper portion by central pin . As shown in central pin spans between end caps and is disposed between side walls . In some embodiments central pin can be hollow or in the alternative central pin can be solid. Central pin can have a general cylindrical shape a general rectangular shape a general prismatic shape or other commercially viable shape.

It is contemplated that pyrolytic ovens must be able to withstand extreme temperatures and temperature fluxes. It is also contemplated that welded joints between a heating chamber and the supporting structure can be a source of weakness in a pyrolytic oven especially when metals with different thermal expansive properties are used. Thus in another aspect of the inventive subject matter a supporting structure for a heating chamber of a pyrolytic oven that remedies these weaknesses is provided. In some embodiments the supporting structure suspends the heating chamber above the ground. In some embodiments the supporting structure comprises a supporting platform gussets and a wing. In these embodiments the heating chamber is coupled to gussets which in turn are coupled to the wing. The wing is coupled to the supporting platform. In some embodiments the wing structure has a lip portion or flange that extends parallel along the elongated dimension of the heating chamber but does not touch the heating chamber. The lip of the wing exerts against the heating chamber at a higher pressure as the oven is heated. In preferred embodiments the supporting structure has two wings each on either side of the heating chamber and each coupled to two gussets.

In some embodiments the heating chamber gusset wing and supporting platform can each be made of different metals with different thermal expansion rates. This allows the oven and the support structure to expand and contract with respect to one another as a result of temperature fluctuations. It is contemplated that different thermal expansion rates can cause stress between different materials at temperature increases of 25 F. 50 F. 100 F. 500 F. 1000 F. It is also contemplated that a combination of metal types to be used in the construction of the support structure can greatly reduce construction costs. For example high grade corrosion resistant and temperature resistant alloys may be used for the heating chamber whereas lower grade alloys may be used for the supporting structure.

One contemplated advantage of the contemplated inventive subject matter is that the supporting structure provides an additional means for increasing the efficiency of the oven. In some embodiments the wing is configured to attach to the heating chamber via the lip at a point above the midpoint of the heating chamber. This configuration allows the supporting structure to support the weight of the heating chamber above the ground without impeding the heat transfer or flow of heat from the plurality of heat sources to the lower half of the heating chamber. In these embodiments the supporting structure substantially supports the weight of the heating chamber without disrupting the airflow and heat transfer from the plurality of heat sources to the heating chamber. In some embodiments the wing is configured to act as a heat sink to concentrate heat along the lower portion of the oven which increases the efficiency of the oven by concentrating heat at the location of the feedstock in the oven.

It is contemplated that welds can be a source of weakness between different components in the construction of pyrolytic ovens because of thermal expansion and contraction as a result of temperature fluctuation. Additionally it is contemplated that welds between two different types of metal alloys are structurally inferior to welds between the same metal alloy. Thus in some embodiments heating chamber is coupled to front gussets via screws bolts rivets studs or similar means. Coupling in this manner eliminates the need for welds and accommodates for some movement between heating chamber and front gussets in respect to one another as a result of thermal expansion or retraction. Similarly in some embodiments front gussets are also coupled to wing also via screws bolts rivets studs or similar means. Coupling in this manner allows the heating chamber the gussets and the wing to comprise different materials. Allowing the use of different materials for each component can greatly decrease the cost of the pyrolytic oven because lower quality materials and generally less expensive can be used in the supporting structure whereas higher quality and generally more expensive materials can be used for the heating chamber.

Wing in some embodiments spans substantially across the elongated length of heating chamber . Spans substantially means that wing spans preferably between 70 100 of the elongated length of heating chamber more preferably between 80 100 of the elongated length of heating chamber and most preferably between 90 100 of the elongated length of heating chamber . Unless the context dictates the contrary all ranges set forth herein should be interpreted as being inclusive of their endpoints and open ended ranges should be interpreted to include only commercially practical values. Similarly all lists of values should be considered as inclusive of intermediate values unless the context indicates the contrary.

It is contemplated that wing can be coupled to supporting platform via screws bolts rivets studs or similar means. Thus the weight of heating chamber is substantially supported by supporting platform . Substantially supported means at least 50 of the weight of heating chamber is supported by the supporting platform and tray . In four posts are shown but other embodiments contemplate the use of more or less posts and more or less flanges. This configuration allows for heating chamber to thermally expand vertically or horizontally. In preferred embodiments the supporting structure comprises at least two wings with corresponding gussets.

In some embodiments one of the ends along the elongated dimension of the pyrolytic oven assembly is affixed to a structure e.g. a permanent structure of an enclosure e.g. a building for the pyrolytic oven. This way as the pyrolytic oven assembly and its components e.g. heating chamber supporting platform wing front gussets etc. expands due to heat and it is contemplated that the different components may expand at a different rate and scale due to their respective material compositions the pyrolytic oven assembly and its components is forced to expand along one direction e.g. towards the end that is not affixed to the structure . The pyrolytic oven assembly in some cases can expand up to 6 inches or more.

Additionally or alternatively in preferred embodiments front gussets and rear gussets are attached to heating chamber at a point above the midpoint of heating chamber such that there is no supporting structure between the midpoint of heating chamber and tray so that there is a cavity between the bottom of heating chamber and tray . This allows air and heat to circulate freely within this cavity and further concentrates the heat on the lower portion of heating chamber . In preferred embodiments cavity is hollow and sealed off from the lower portion of heating chamber . However in some embodiments this cavity may not be hollow and may contain additional heat sources or additional insulation. Additionally in some embodiments cavity may be open to the lower portion of heating chamber .

In some embodiments the supporting structure includes an insulator . In some embodiments insulator comprises a vitrous aluminosilicate ceramic fiber thermal blanket such as Durablanket or Fiberfrax manufactured by Unifrax LLC. However insulator may be any commercially viable material which impedes the passage of heat including reflectors ceramic fibers refractors foams rubbers etc. In some embodiments insulator is located along the top half of heating chamber . In some embodiments insulator and wing are configured to retain heat in the lower portion of heating chamber . This allows heat to be concentrated along the bottom of heating chamber so that maximum heat is transferred from heating chamber to the feedstock. The remainder of heating chamber is heated through heat transfer through the walls of heating chamber .

As mentioned before it is contemplated that different materials expand at different rates when exposed to heat. This can cause mechanical stress on a pyrolytic oven made of multiple materials. Thus in some embodiments the front portion of wing is fixed to supporting platform at holes . Slots allow wing to expand a long a horizontal dimension when heated. This configuration ensures that the front of wing remains fixed while the rear is allowed to expand horizontally when the temperature increases. This allows the wing and supporting platforms to expand at different rates while minimizing the mechanical stress on each individual component.

It is contemplated that a heating chamber of a pyrolytic oven may be exposed to temperature extremes and fluctuations and that these variable conditions can impact the structural integrity of the heating chamber. Thus in one aspect of the inventive subject matter a heating chamber with multiple interlocking panels is provided. Additionally it is contemplated that the use of multiple panels allows the heating chamber to be more easily repaired because each panel can be replaced independently which significantly decreases repair costs. In some embodiments the heating chamber has one panel with a tongue along its edge and a corresponding panel with a groove along its edge. In these embodiments the tongue and groove are sized and dimensioned to couple both panels together.

In some embodiments heating chamber is made of a high temperature corrosion resistant metal alloy that can be casted or fabricated. Some contemplated alloys include highly corrosion resistant nickel chromium molybdenum alloys such as RA 602 CA RA 333 HR 120 HR 160 Hastelloy X Alloy etc. However other commercially viable metal alloys can be used. In addition the heating chamber may be partially or completely made of ceramic glass concrete brick or other temperature resistant and corrosion resistant material.

As referred to herein tongue means a projecting portion built into a material that fits into a groove built into another material. As referred to herein groove means a cut indentation depression channel or notch built into a material.

In some embodiments panel contains a tongue but no groove. In this embodiment the corresponding panel would contain a groove sized and dimensioned to receive tongue . In some embodiments the non tongue and non groove portions of the edges of panels and are angled to meet one another without an interlock.

In preferred embodiments tongue and groove of panel have the same length such that each span 50 of a length of the panel. However in some embodiments the lengths of tongue and groove are different provided that both tongue and groove are sized and dimensioned to mate with a corresponding tongue and groove on panel . In some embodiments panels and have multiple tongues and multiple grooves. Additionally in some embodiments heating chamber comprises multiple lower panels.

Although the above description illustrates the different inventive subject matters being applied to a pyrolytic oven a person who is skilled in the art would appreciate that the same inventive subject matters can also be applied to different types of ovens e.g. cooking ovens kilns paint drying ovens etc. to achieve the same benefits.

It should be apparent to those skilled in the art that many more modifications besides those already described are possible without departing from the inventive concepts herein. The inventive subject matter therefore is not to be restricted except in the spirit of the appended claims. Moreover in interpreting both the specification and the claims all terms should be interpreted in the broadest possible manner consistent with the context. In particular the terms comprises and comprising should be interpreted as referring to elements components or steps in a non exclusive manner indicating that the referenced elements components or steps can be present or utilized or combined with other elements components or steps that are not expressly referenced. Where the specification claims refers to at least one of something selected from the group consisting of A B C . . . and N the text should be interpreted as requiring only one element from the group not A plus N or B plus N etc.

