---

title: Wiggle hull design having a concave and convex planing hull
abstract: A Wiggle Hull design for a water vessel, the hull design including a planing hull segment. The planing hull segment has a longitudinal camber that is a combination of concave and convex undersurfaces for improving performance characteristics, including lift and lift to drag ratios. The Wiggle Hull design may also have end plates at the chines to optimize performance characteristics.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09365262&OS=09365262&RS=09365262
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of The Navy
number: 09365262
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150610
---
The following description was made in the performance of official duties by employees of the Department of the Navy and thus the claimed invention may be manufactured used licensed by or for the United States Government for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon.

The following description relates generally to a wiggle hull segment for a water vessel the wiggle hull segment having a longitudinal camber that is a combination of concave and convex undersurfaces for improving performance characteristics including lift and lift to drag ratios.

Planing lift is generated when a planing surface imparts a downward momentum to the free surface of the water below. This action is manifested as a downward depression of the water surface behind the planing surface. In water vessels the planing surface is generally the bottom of the planing hull.

Planing hulls generally use a hull with straight buttocks with the exception of the areas near the bow and at the transom for trim tabs or wedges. is an exemplary illustration of a planing hull according to what is known in the prior art. shows a water vessel having a planing hull which as shown is generally straight and flat. depicts the water vessel as it moves along a water surface the planing hull imparting an upward force L on the water surface to counter the weight W on the water surface . As shown a downward depression is created behind the planing surface . also shows the drag D and the resulting force R.

This type of hull is not an ideal lift surface and its resistance at high loads is poor. This results in high drag D and high propulsion power fuel requirements resulting in poor fuel economy. The traditional planing hull especially those heavily loaded have very high hump drag that can prevent them from getting past hump speed. Thus there is a need for a planing hull design that improves performance characteristics.

In one aspect the invention is a water vessel for operation in open water. In this aspect the water vessel includes a hull having a bow end and a stern end. The hull also has a planing hull segment having a planing hull undersurface for contacting the water. The planing segment has a plurality of lateral profiles in a lateral extension direction X and a longitudinal profile in a longitudinal extension direction Y perpendicular to the lateral extension direction X. In this aspect each of the plurality of lateral profiles in the lateral extension direction X includes a flat portion extending substantially parallel to the direction X. The plurality of lateral profiles defines a flat bottomed lateral section. The longitudinal profile in the longitudinal extension direction Y includes an inclined portion a transition knuckle a substantially flat horizontal portion a first convex transition knuckle a first concave portion a second convex transition knuckle and a second concave portion. According to the invention starting from the bow end the longitudinal profile includes the inclined portion extending downwards at a constant angle . The inclined portion ends at the transition knuckle which extends into the substantially flat horizontal portion. This is followed by the first convex transition knuckle located between the substantially flat horizontal portion and the first concave portion. According to the invention the first concave portion is aft of the first convex transition knuckle with the first concave portion ending at the second convex transition knuckle and wherein the second concave portion is aft of the second convex transition knuckle. The second concave portion extends towards the stern end of the hull.

In another aspect the invention is a planing hull segment of a water vessel having a bow end and a stern end. The planing hull segment has a planing hull undersurface for contacting the water. The planing segment has a plurality of lateral profiles in a lateral extension direction X and a longitudinal profile in a longitudinal extension direction Y perpendicular to the lateral extension direction X. In this aspect each of the plurality of lateral profiles in the lateral extension direction X includes a flat portion extending substantially parallel to the direction X. The plurality of lateral profiles defines a flat bottomed lateral section. The longitudinal profile in the longitudinal extension direction Y includes an inclined portion a transition point to a flat horizontal surface a transition point from the horizontal surface to the first concave portion a first concave portion a second convex transition point and a second concave portion. According to the invention starting from the bow end the longitudinal profile includes the inclined portion extending downwards at a constant angle . The inclined portion ends at the transition knuckle which extends into the substantially flat horizontal portion. This is followed by the first convex transition knuckle located between the substantially flat horizontal portion and the first concave portion. According to the invention the first concave portion is aft of the first convex transition knuckle with the first concave portion ending at the second convex transition knuckle and wherein the second concave portion is aft of the second convex transition knuckle. The second concave portion extends towards the stern end of the hull.

As stated above is a side view showing the overall structure of the watercraft having a hull . As shown represents a side view in the Y Z plane. The hull includes a bow end and a stern end . also shows that the hull includes a planing hull segment illustrated by cross hatches. The planing hull segment extends between the bow end and the stern end . The concave convex Wiggle Hull structure of the planing hull segment is outlined below. The planing hull segment has a planing surface the underside of the hull segment . When the watercraft is planing at typical planing speeds watercraft planes on hull segment .

As shown the planing hull segments and have a lateral extension in the X direction. As a path is traced for the respective planing hull segments and in the lateral X direction from one hull side wall to the other hull side wall with respect to the X Z plane there is no variation in the Z direction. In other words with respect to lateral extension in the X Z plane the Z direction coordinate is constant. This therefore defines a flat bottomed lateral section. This can also be seen in which is a perspective illustration of planing hull segment showing how the planing hull segment extends in the lateral X direction and the longitudinal Y direction with respect to an overall XYZ coordinate system.

It should be noted that the lengths of the walls and may be different depending on the location of the section. Similarly the length in the X direction of the respective sectionals and depending on the lateral width at that particular hull . However the shape in the lateral X direction is primarily flat regardless of the position along the hull . also shows a reference line shows the relative positions of the sectionals and with respect to each other depth wise.

It should also be noted that represents sectional views of five randomly selected points along the hull . The hull is made up of a plurality of these sectionals not shown. Thus the planing hull segment itself has a plurality of lateral profiles in the laterally extending direction X. These sectionals all have similar shapes as outlined in . Therefore each of the plurality lateral profiles in the lateral extension direction X has comprises a flat portion extending substantially parallel to the X direction. Thus the combined plurality of lateral profiles defines a flat bottomed lateral section of the hull.

Returning to the planing hull segment extends in longitudinal extension direction Y perpendicular to each of the lateral extension X direction and the vertical Z direction extension. See . As shown in this extension in the Y direction is between the bow end and the stern end . As a path is traced in longitudinal extension direction Y from the bow end to the stern end with respect to the Y Z plane there is some variation in the Z direction. Again this can also be seen in which is a perspective illustration of planing hull segment showing how the planing hull segment extends in the lateral X direction and the longitudinal Y direction with respect to an overall XYZ coordinate system.

According to an embodiment of the invention the first and second concave portions and have a positive camber ratio between 1 and 6 . According to an embodiment of the invention the camber ratio is approximately 2.5 . It should be noted that the illustration of may provide an exaggerated view of the different portions watercraft planing hull segment solely as a means to describe the different elements of the planing hull segment . However the camber ratios as outlined above are suggested values according to embodiments of the invention.

As stated above the watercraft may be an amphibious vehicle a landing craft a bridge erection boat a gun boat an armored troop carrier a workboat a knee board or the like. According to the invention the watercraft has the capability to operate at or about hump speed. is an exemplary centerline view of a watercraft planing hull segment showing the water impacting the Wiggle Hull while planing according to an embodiment of the invention. In operation when planing a spray root or start of wetted length starts near or aft of the knuckle and on the flat horizontal surface . This is shown in . also shows a water pileup above the still waterline common to planing hulls. The combination of concavity and convexity of the undersurface lowers the resistance and increases lift to drag as compared to the traditional planing hull shown in . During transition from displacement to planing and during normal motions from operation in waves the sloped bow inclined portion forward of the flat horizontal surface will become wet and provide additional lift for the transition from displacement to planing dynamic stability and seakeeping. At planing speeds in calm or still water the Wiggle Hull will plane as depicted in .

Also during operation in waves the spray root may move aft of transition knuckle . The second transition convex knuckle of the hull provides dynamic stability in this scenario. It should be noted that the concavity or convexity may be adjusted to optimize performance to suit displacement longitudinal center of gravity length to beam ratio and speed.

What has been described and illustrated herein are preferred embodiments of the invention along with some variations. The terms descriptions and figures used herein are set forth by way of illustration only and are not meant as limitations. For example the concavity or convexity can be adjusted to optimize performance to suit displacement longitudinal center of gravity length to beam ratio and speed. Those skilled in the art will recognize that many variations are possible within the spirit and scope of the invention which is intended to be defined by the following claims and their equivalents in which all terms are meant in their broadest reasonable sense unless otherwise indicated.

