---

title: Industrial automation service templates for provisioning of cloud services
abstract: A library of cloud templates for configuring cloud-based industrial solutions is provided. A cloud template provisioning system provides a platform for location and retrieval of a variety of cloud templates that facilitate configuration of cloud-based industrial applications, including control panel templates, dashboard templates, data historian templates, virtual machine management templates, and other such templates. The cloud templates can be installed and executed on a client device to provide an intuitive interface for configuring various aspects of the cloud-based solution.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09568909&OS=09568909&RS=09568909
owner: Rockwell Automation Technologies, Inc.
number: 09568909
owner_city: Mayfield Heights
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150731
---
This application is a continuation of and claims priority to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 725 578 filed on Dec. 21 2012 and entitled INDUSTRIAL AUTOMATION SERVICE TEMPLATES FOR PROVISIONING OF CLOUD SERVICES which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 587 531 filed on Feb. 9 2012 and entitled INDUSTRIAL AUTOMATION CLOUD COMPUTING SYSTEMS AND METHODS. This application is also related to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 162 315 filed on Jun. 4 2002 which issued as U.S. Pat. No. 7 151 966 on Dec. 19 2006 and entitled SYSTEM AND METHODOLOGY PROVIDING OPEN INTERFACE AND DISTRIBUTED PROCESSING IN AN INDUSTRIAL CONTROLLER ENVIRONMENT. The entireties of these applications are incorporated herein by reference.

The subject application relates generally to industrial automation and more particularly to the use of templates to implement cloud based solutions for industrial automation systems.

Industrial controllers and their associated I O devices are central to the operation of modern automation systems. These controllers interact with field devices on the plant floor to control automated processes relating to such objectives as product manufacture material handling batch processing supervisory control and other such applications. Industrial controllers store and execute user defined control programs to effect decision making in connection with the controlled process. Such programs can include but are not limited to ladder logic sequential function charts function block diagrams structured text or other such programming structures.

Because of the large number of system variables that must be monitored and controlled in near real time industrial automation systems often generate vast amounts of near real time data. In addition to production statistics data relating to machine health alarm statuses operator feedback e.g. manually entered reason codes associated with a downtime condition electrical or mechanical load over time and the like are often monitored and in some cases recorded on a continuous basis. This data is generated by the many industrial devices that can make up a given automation system including the industrial controller and its associated I O telemetry devices for near real time metering motion control devices e.g. drives for controlling the motors that make up a motion system visualization applications lot traceability systems e.g. barcode tracking etc. Moreover since many industrial facilities operate on a 24 hour basis their associated automation systems can generate a vast amount of potentially useful data at high rates. For an enterprise with multiple plant facilities the amount of generated automation data further increases.

The large quantity of data generated by modern automation systems makes it possible to apply a broad range of plant analytics to the automation systems and processes that make up an industrial enterprise or business. However access to the industrial data is typically limited to applications and devices that share a common network with the industrial controllers that collect and generate the data. As such plant personnel wishing to leverage the industrial data generated by their systems in another application e.g. a reporting or analysis tool notification system visualization application backup data storage etc. are required to maintain such applications on site using local resources. Moreover although a given industrial enterprise may comprise multiple plant facilities at geographically diverse locations or multiple mobile systems having variable locations the scope of such applications is limited only to data available on controllers residing on the same local network as the application.

The above described deficiencies of today s industrial control and business systems are merely intended to provide an overview of some of the problems of conventional systems and are not intended to be exhaustive. Other problems with conventional systems and corresponding benefits of the various non limiting embodiments described herein may become further apparent upon review of the following description.

The following presents a simplified summary in order to provide a basic understanding of some aspects described herein. This summary is not an extensive overview nor is intended to identify key critical elements or to delineate the scope of the various aspects described herein. Its sole purpose is to present some concepts in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.

One or more embodiments of the present disclosure relate to the use of cloud templates that allow industrial devices and other client devices to quickly and easily implement cloud based solutions for industrial automation. To this end a suite of pre verified cloud templates are provided that can be incorporated in a variety of devices including but not limited to industrial controllers I O devices motors and motor drives pumps business servers data historians personal client devices and other such equipment. Some cloud templates can implement cloud capability in the hosting device providing the device with the means to communicatively couple to and exchange data with cloud based services residing on a cloud platform. Other templates can be configured to render administrative control panels that allow authorized users to control various aspects of a cloud based solution e.g. resource allocation billing user management device management etc. or to render dashboards that provide views of selected portions of a cloud based industrial solution. Virtual machine management templates are also provided that facilitate creation deployment and control of cloud based virtual machines used to monitor or control portions of an automation system via a cloud platform.

To the accomplishment of the foregoing and related ends certain illustrative aspects are described herein in connection with the following description and the annexed drawings. These aspects are indicative of various ways which can be practiced all of which are intended to be covered herein. Other advantages and novel features may become apparent from the following detailed description when considered in conjunction with the drawings.

The subject disclosure is now described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding thereof. It may be evident however that the subject disclosure can be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to facilitate a description thereof.

As used in this application the terms component system platform layer controller terminal station node interface are intended to refer to a computer related entity or an entity related to or that is part of an operational apparatus with one or more specific functionalities wherein such entities can be either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. For example a component can be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor a hard disk drive multiple storage drives of optical or magnetic storage medium including affixed e.g. screwed or bolted or removably affixed solid state storage drives an object an executable a thread of execution a computer executable program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a server and the server can be a component. One or more components can reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component can be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers. Also components as described herein can execute from various computer readable storage media having various data structures stored thereon. The components may communicate via local and or remote processes such as in accordance with a signal having one or more data packets e.g. data from one component interacting with another component in a local system distributed system and or across a network such as the Internet with other systems via the signal . As another example a component can be an apparatus with specific functionality provided by mechanical parts operated by electric or electronic circuitry which is operated by a software or a firmware application executed by a processor wherein the processor can be internal or external to the apparatus and executes at least a part of the software or firmware application. As yet another example a component can be an apparatus that provides specific functionality through electronic components without mechanical parts the electronic components can include a processor therein to execute software or firmware that provides at least in part the functionality of the electronic components. As further yet another example interface s can include input output I O components as well as associated processor application or Application Programming Interface API components. While the foregoing examples are directed to aspects of a component the exemplified aspects or features also apply to a system platform interface layer controller terminal and the like.

As used herein the terms to infer and inference refer generally to the process of reasoning about or inferring states of the system environment and or user from a set of observations as captured via events and or data. Inference can be employed to identify a specific context or action or can generate a probability distribution over states for example. The inference can be probabilistic that is the computation of a probability distribution over states of interest based on a consideration of data and events. Inference can also refer to techniques employed for composing higher level events from a set of events and or data. Such inference results in the construction of new events or actions from a set of observed events and or stored event data whether or not the events are correlated in close temporal proximity and whether the events and data come from one or several event and data sources.

In addition the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or. That is unless specified otherwise or clear from the context the phrase X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is the phrase X employs A or B is satisfied by any of the following instances X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B. In addition the articles a and an as used in this application and the appended claims should generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from the context to be directed to a singular form.

Furthermore the term set as employed herein excludes the empty set e.g. the set with no elements therein. Thus a set in the subject disclosure includes one or more elements or entities. As an illustration a set of controllers includes one or more controllers a set of data resources includes one or more data resources etc. Likewise the term group as utilized herein refers to a collection of one or more entities e.g. a group of nodes refers to one or more nodes.

Various aspects or features will be presented in terms of systems that may include a number of devices components modules and the like. It is to be understood and appreciated that the various systems may include additional devices components modules etc. and or may not include all of the devices components modules etc. discussed in connection with the figures. A combination of these approaches also can be used.

To provide a general context for the cloud based services described herein illustrates a high level overview of an industrial enterprise that leverages cloud based services. The enterprise comprises one or more industrial facilities each having a number of industrial devices and in use. The industrial devices and can make up one or more automation systems operating within the respective facilities . Exemplary automation systems can include but are not limited to batch control systems e.g. mixing systems continuous control systems e.g. PID control systems or discrete control systems. Industrial devices and can include such devices as industrial controllers e.g. programmable logic controllers or other types of programmable automation controllers field devices such as sensors and meters motor drives human machine interfaces HMIs industrial robots barcode markers and readers vision system devices e.g. vision cameras smart welders or other such industrial devices.

Exemplary automation systems can include one or more industrial controllers that facilitate monitoring and control of their respective processes. The controllers exchange data with the field devices using native hardwired I O or via a plant network such as Ethernet IP Data Highway Plus ControlNet Devicenet or the like. A given controller typically receives any combination of digital or analog signals from the field devices indicating a current state of the devices and their associated processes e.g. temperature position part presence or absence fluid level etc. and executes a user defined control program that performs automated decision making for the controlled processes based on the received signals. The controller then outputs appropriate digital and or analog control signaling to the field devices in accordance with the decisions made by the control program. These outputs can include device actuation signals temperature or position control signals operational commands to a machining or material handling robot mixer control signals motion control signals and the like. The control program can comprise any suitable type of code used to process input signals read into the controller and to control output signals generated by the controller including but not limited to ladder logic sequential function charts function block diagrams structured text or other such platforms.

Although the exemplary overview illustrated in depicts the industrial devices and as residing in fixed location industrial facilities the industrial devices may also be part of a mobile control and or monitoring application such as a system contained in a truck or other service vehicle.

According to one or more embodiments of this disclosure industrial devices and can be coupled to a cloud platform to leverage cloud based applications. That is the industrial device and can be configured to discover and interact with cloud based computing services hosted by cloud platform . Cloud platform can be any infrastructure that allows shared computing services to be accessed and utilized by cloud capable devices. Cloud platform can be a public cloud accessible via the Internet by devices having Internet connectivity and appropriate authorizations to utilize the services . In some scenarios cloud platform can be provided by a cloud provider as a platform as a service PaaS and the services can reside and execute on the cloud platform as a cloud based service. In some such configurations access to the cloud platform and associated services can be provided to customers as a subscription service by an owner of the services . Alternatively cloud platform can be a private cloud operated internally by the enterprise. An exemplary private cloud platform can comprise a set of servers hosting the cloud services and residing on a corporate network protected by a firewall.

Cloud services can include but are not limited to data storage data analysis control applications e.g. applications that can generate and deliver control instructions to industrial devices and based on analysis of near real time system data or other factors visualization applications such as cloud based HMIs reporting applications Enterprise Resource Planning ERP applications notification services cloud based data historian services or other such applications. If cloud platform is a web based cloud industrial devices and at the respective industrial facilities may interact with cloud services via the Internet. In an exemplary configuration industrial devices and may access the cloud services through separate cloud gateways at the respective industrial facilities where the industrial devices and connect to the cloud gateways through a physical or wireless local area network or radio link. In another exemplary configuration the industrial devices and may access the cloud platform directly using an integrated cloud gateway service.

Providing industrial devices with cloud capability directly or via cloud gateways can offer a number of advantages particular to industrial automation. For one cloud based storage offered by the cloud platform can be easily scaled to accommodate the large quantities of data generated daily by an industrial enterprise. Moreover multiple industrial facilities at different geographical locations can migrate their respective automation data to the cloud platform for aggregation collation collective analysis and enterprise level reporting without the need to establish a private network between the facilities. Industrial devices and and or cloud gateways having smart configuration capability can be configured to automatically detect and communicate with the cloud platform upon installation at any facility simplifying integration with existing cloud based data storage analysis or reporting applications used by the enterprise. In another exemplary application cloud based diagnostic applications can access the industrial devices and via cloud gateways to monitor the health of respective automation systems or their associated industrial devices across an entire plant or across multiple industrial facilities that make up an enterprise. In another example cloud based lot control applications can be used to track a unit of product through its stages of production and collect production data for each unit as it passes through each stage e.g. barcode identifier production statistics for each stage of production quality test data abnormal flags etc. . These industrial cloud computing applications are only intended to be exemplary and the systems and methods described herein are not limited to these particular applications. As these examples demonstrate the cloud platform working with cloud gateways can allow builders of industrial applications to provide scalable solutions as a service removing the burden of maintenance upgrading and backup of the underlying infrastructure and framework.

According to one or more embodiments of the present disclosure a suite of cloud templates are provided that can be utilized by client device to facilitate implementation of cloud based industrial automation solutions. Cloud templates can comprise pre verified functional templates that when retrieved into device storage associated with client device implement cloud functionality on client device in accordance with the particular template selected for use. For example if cloud template is a control panel template or a dashboard template cloud template can configure client device to act as a control panel or dashboard for an industrial cloud platform similar to cloud platform of . To this end cloud template can render an interface via a user interface component associated with client device that receives configuration input and or renders visualization output relating to the cloud platform . In another example cloud template may be a historian template that configures client device which may be an industrial device to provide industrial data to a cloud based data historian operator interface or reporting application running on cloud platform . Cloud template can also be used to configure a cloud interface component associated with client device to communicate and exchange data with cloud platform in connection with its designated functionality. Other exemplary templates include but are not limited to virtual machine management templates process control templates device hierarchy templates service templates etc. These templates will be described in more detail below.

The cloud template provisioning system is accessible by template developers and template users to facilitate publication and sharing of industrial cloud templates via the cloud or web based platform. In general industrial cloud templates can be developed and submitted to the cloud template provisioning system by a development workstation having access to the provisioning system. In an exemplary configuration development workstation may access the cloud template provisioning system through a separate network interface where the development workstation connects to the network interface through a physical or wireless local area network or radio link. In another exemplary configuration network interface may be integrated with the development workstation which accesses the cloud or web based platform directly using the integrated network interface .

Client device typically associated with an industrial facility or enterprise can access one or more libraries of published industrial cloud templates maintained by the cloud template provisioning system . Similar to the development workstation client device can access the cloud template provisioning system via a network interface which can be internal to the client device or a separate interface communicatively connected to the client device . Client device may be any suitable device capable of submitting search criteria to the cloud template provisioning system and receiving one or more cloud templates from the provisioning system including but not limited to a desktop computer a laptop or a cloud capable mobile device such as a mobile phone or tablet computer.

Client device can also be a cloud capable industrial device such as an industrial controller e.g. programmable logic controllers or other types of programmable automation controllers a field device such as sensor or a meter a motor drive a human machine interface HMI station an industrial robot a barcode marker or reader a vision system device e.g. vision camera a smart welder or other such industrial devices. Allowing industrial devices to access the cloud template provisioning system either directly or through a protected network interface or gateway can offer a number of advantages. For example an industrial device having an installed cloud configuration template that integrates the industrial device with a cloud based system e.g. a cloud based historian device management system notification system visualization system etc. can automatically access the cloud template provisioning system through network interface and retrieve updates to the cloud template when such updates are published to the cloud platform .

Cloud template provisioning system can include a publish component a search component a retrieval component an interface component one or more processors and memory . In various embodiments one or more of the publish component search component retrieval component interface component one or more processors and memory can be electrically and or communicatively coupled to one another to perform one or more of the functions of the cloud template provisioning system . In some embodiments components can comprise software instructions stored on memory and executed by processor s . The cloud template provisioning system may also interact with other hardware and or software components not depicted in . For example processor s may interact with one or more external user interface devices such as a keyboard a mouse a display monitor a touchscreen or other such interface devices.

Publish component can be configured to receive submission of an industrial cloud template from a remote client device e.g. a development workstation having a network interface via a web based or cloud based platform and publish the industrial cloud template to one or more template libraries. In some embodiments memory can comprise multiple storage devices e.g. a network of storage servers to allow for storage of large numbers of cloud templates across multiple template libraries. The number of template libraries can be expanded as needed to accommodate a growing number of published cloud templates and related software components.

Search component can be configured to receive search criteria from a remote client device e.g. client device via network interface via the web based or cloud based platform and identify a subset of the cloud templates in the library matching the received criteria. Retrieval component can retrieve the subset of cloud templates identified by the search component and deliver the identified cloud templates to the originator of the search request. This can include sending the cloud templates to the requesting client device over the Internet or via a cloud platform or sending only a set of indicators identifying the subset of cloud templates.

Interface component can be configured to establish communication and exchange data with remote devices. Accordingly interface component can authenticate a client device or user wishing to access the cloud template provisioning system receive cloud template submissions receive search criteria and send retrieved cloud templates and other user feedback to the remote devices.

The one or more processors can perform one or more of the functions described herein with reference to the systems and or methods disclosed. Memory can be a computer readable storage medium or multiple storage media storing computer executable instructions and or information for performing the functions described herein with reference to the systems and or methods disclosed.

Exemplary cloud templates and related components suitable for storage in the template libraries can include but are not limited to cloud control panel templates cloud dashboard templates cloud based virtual machine management templates cloud based historian templates cloud based process control templates device hierarchy templates and or service templates. These various types of cloud templates are described in more detail below. In addition to the cloud templates and related components the cloud template libraries can include associated help files usage tips frequently asked questions FAQs instructional videos or other such materials to guide users in connection with using the respective cloud templates.

The cloud template provisioning system can also be used to facilitate code sharing between cloud template developers over the web based or cloud based platform. For example software developers working in geographically remote locations on a common software project may publish software fixes or new code blocks to the cloud template provisioning system so that co developers can access the new or updated code during development. Thus the cloud template provisioning system can facilitate provisioning of not only complete cloud templates but also add on functional modules for such cloud templates template upgrades or bug fixes extension packs etc. Publication and provisioning of such modular template components can be performed independently of the provisioning of the cloud templates themselves.

As noted above the cloud template provisioning system can store industrial cloud templates according to an industry specific and or device specific hierarchical cataloging schema. That is a template developer can publish their new or modified industrial cloud templates according to pre defined industry specific or device specific categories and sub categories supported by the catalog s storage structure. Cloud template provisioning system can support a hierarchical arrangement of these categories and sub categories to simplify subsequent location and retrieval of industrial cloud templates or code segments using browsable search features. Some embodiments of the cloud template provisioning system can also provide a means for template developers to define their own categories for a given cloud template thereby affording designers a degree of freedom in expanding the hierarchical storage structure of the template libraries as new areas of control evolve. Cloud template provisioning system also supports publishing of samples and documentation together with the published cloud templates.

Authorized template users wishing to locate and retrieve an industrial cloud template can interact with the cloud template provisioning system through a search client served by the provisioning system to the user s client device. The search client can support keyword based querying of the template libraries and or a browsable interface that allows the user to navigate the library hierarchy. Both keyword querying and browsed searching permit searching for a given industrial cloud template based on such criteria as applicable industry e.g. automotive pharmaceutical waste water treatment etc. type of control project e.g. motion control batch processing material handling etc. type of template required type of industrial device or any other suitable pre defined or user defined category.

In some embodiments industrial cloud templates can also be searched by vendor or company that developed the template. To facilitate company based searching as well as to verify the authenticity of a given cloud template the cloud template provisioning system can include tools that allow developers to digitally sign their cloud templates before storing the template on the provisioning system. A cloud template can be signed for example using a company s unique digital certificate. This can assure an end user that the template is an authentic product of the signing company. Associating the template with a particular company or vendor identification e.g. a digital signature can also allow the templates to be searched by company or vendor. In this way if an end user is only interested in acquiring cloud templates developed by a particular company the cloud template provisioning system can allow the user to enter the company name as part of the search criteria and return only those template developed by the identified company.

Template development environment runs on development workstation and is used to develop a cloud template which is to be submitted to the provisioning system . Template development environment can comprise any suitable design tool or programming platform that provides a developer the means to create or modify an industrial cloud template for shared use. In some scenarios template development environment will be a stand alone development platform. However some embodiments of the cloud template provisioning system can provide a remote development environment to web capable or cloud capable computing devices for development testing and debugging of industrial cloud templates. In such embodiments this web based development environment can allow users to leverage remote web server or cloud resources e.g. storage processing bandwidth etc. to develop cloud templates for subsequent storage and publication on the provisioning system . To facilitate access to this cloud based development environment the provisioning system can serve a development interface to the development workstation that serves as an interface to the development environment. This can allow the development workstation to access and utilize the development environment from an authorized web capable or cloud capable device. In some embodiments the web based or cloud based development environment can include integrated testing and simulation capability allowing templates in progress to be simulated tested and debugged e.g. using cloud resources provided by the cloud based platform. Templates in development may also be stored on the web based or cloud based platform between development sessions. The use of cloud resources to develop templates in this manner can also facilitate sharing of development tasks between geographically diverse template developers since multiple developers at different locations can access the template in progress from any authorized web capable computing device.

When a new or modified industrial cloud template is ready for submission to the provisioning system the developer can invoke publishing client . The publishing client can be a remote web based client served by the provisioning system or a locally executed client on development workstation that can be invoked and communicatively linked to the provisioning system over the Internet. Publishing client can include functionality that allows a developer to associated metadata with the cloud template that can subsequently be used by the provisioning system to classify the cloud template within an industry specific or device specific storage hierarchy. Publishing client can also include functionality that allows the developer to submit documentation for the cloud template to the provisioning system . When the developer has prepared the cloud template for submission and associated all desired metadata and documentation with the template publishing client can be instructed to send a cloud template submission to the provisioning system on the cloud based or web based platform. In some embodiments cloud template provisioning system may only allow template submission by registered users. Accordingly the provisioning system can perform a suitable authentication procedure to ensure that the user submitting the cloud template submission is an authorized user of the system.

The cloud template submission is submitted to the provisioning system where a publish component adds the template to the cloud template library . Cloud template library can be maintained on one or more data stores e.g. data stores on a cloud platform or associated with one or more web servers . Publish component can parse any metadata tags included in the cloud template submission to determine proper classification of the cloud template within the library s storage hierarchy. As discussed above the submitted cloud template can be classified within the library according to a hierarchy of industry specific or device specific categories to facilitate guiding a user to a desired industrial cloud template suitable for a given industry device and or task. For example publish component can read Control Type Industry Category and or Sub Category fields of a metadata tag submitted with the cloud template submission and associate the cloud template with a hierarchical path corresponding to the values in those fields. To facilitate simple and flexible cataloging of the cloud template publishing client can allow developers at development workstation to either select values for those fields from a list of classifications already existing in library or to define new designer supplied industry device and or category classifications. Thus if publish component determines that a Sub Category field in a metadata tag contains a new classification the publish component can create a new branch at an appropriate location within the library hierarchy corresponding to the new designer supplied classification and associate the new cloud template with this new pathway in the library .

In one or more embodiments location and retrieval of a cloud template can be effected by submitting keyword based search criteria to the provisioning system via search interface . Search interface can submit the search criteria to the cloud based provisioning system across a generic Internet layer. Search criteria can comprise one or more keywords entered by the user using the search interface . In some embodiments a user can submit keywords that identify one or more of an industrial domain a control type e.g. discrete control process control etc. a type of automation application a device or piece of equipment an industry standard or any other terms that can be used by the provisioning system to identify a desired subset of industrial cloud templates stored in cloud template library . In one or more embodiments a subset of the search criteria can also be inferred by the search interface based in part on extrinsic data relating to the user s existing control system.

When search criteria is submitted to the provisioning system an interface component receives the search criteria and passes the criteria to a search component which identifies a subset of cloud templates stored in cloud template library similar to template library of of that satisfy the submitted criteria. To determine whether a given stored cloud template meets the search criteria search component can cross reference the search terms contained within the search criteria against the given cloud template s metadata tags hierarchy classifications inherent properties of the template e.g. parameters inputs and outputs data types animation types etc. or other defined or inherent properties of the cloud template.

Moreover one or more embodiments of search component can support approximate match searching such that exact matches between the submitted search criteria and a potentially relevant cloud template s metadata or properties is not necessary in order for the cloud template to be selected for inclusion in the retrieved subset. In this regard any suitable fuzzy search methodology can be employed to ensure that useful cloud templates are returned even in the absence of an exact match. In one exemplary approach upon receipt of search criteria search component can calculate one or more figures of merit for each cloud template in the library relative to the search criteria. Each template s figure of merit is a relative measure of how relevant the given template is likely to be to the search criteria. For example if a search criterion stipulates that a requested cloud template is to be used to configure and manage a cloud based motion control system the search component can generate a control type figure of merit for each cloud template in the library indicating a relative applicability to motion control. Cloud templates whose metadata explicitly specifies motion control as an applicable control type will be given the highest figure of merit. Templates whose metadata specifies a different control type that has similarities to motion control type applications e.g. commonly employs similar equipment or processes etc. will be given a comparatively high though not the highest figure of merit with respect to cloud templates designed for configuration and monitor of other types of control systems. When all figures of merit have been identified search component can identify the subset of cloud templates having a figure of merit above a threshold value as being sufficiently relevant to the search criteria. According to one or more embodiments multiple figures of merit can be calculated for each cloud template for a given set of search criteria where each figure of merit relates to a particular search dimension or aspect e.g. industry control type category industrial device desired functionality etc. . In such embodiments a composite figure of merit can be computed based on the individual figures of merit for the various search dimensions and the relevant subset of cloud templates can be selected by the search component based on this composite value.

After the subset of relevant cloud templates from library has been identified the provisioning system can render a list of the identified cloud templates on the search interface for selection by the user. Each item in the list can include a description of the template including information derived from the template s metadata e.g. control type industry device function etc. . The search interface can receive input from the user indicating selection of one of the cloud templates in the list and inform the provisioning system of the user s selection. Based on the user selection the retrieval component retrieves the identified cloud template from the template library .

In one or more embodiments template libraries and described above can comprise centralized common libraries accessible to suitably authorized users across multiple locations and enterprises e.g. via a subscription service . In some embodiments particularly those in which the provisioning system executes on a cloud platform the cloud template provisioning system can also allow users to create and maintain personal libraries on the cloud platform for storage of selected cloud templates or related software components. In such embodiments the system allows the user to import cloud templates or related components into their personal cloud based template library from other libraries e.g. the commonly accessible library described above or to publish their own user developed templates and related components to the personal library. Such personal template libraries can utilize a subset of cloud resources e.g. storage processing and or bandwidth allocated to the user or the user s business enterprise. The system can allow the user to configure these personal template libraries such that access to the templates and related software components stored thereon is limited to authorized personnel within their company. In this way the system allows the user to build custom cloud template libraries for personal or internal use comprising templates or associated software component of particular value or potential utility for the user or enterprise.

In some embodiments the provisioning system can provide the retrieved cloud template to the client device over the Internet for local usage. That is the selected cloud template can be downloaded from the provisioning system and stored on local storage at the client device. Alternatively some embodiments of the provisioning system can allow certain cloud templates to be run remotely using cloud resources provisioned to the user or to the industrial facility. illustrates remote execution of cloud templates using cloud resources assigned to respective industrial facilities. Client devices and at respective industrial facilities and can access cloud template provisioning system residing on a web based or cloud based platform. As in previous examples the client devices and can access the provisioning system through a generic Internet layer. In the present example each of the industrial facilities and are allocated respective cloud resource provisions and where the resource provisions and can comprise allocations of cloud storage processing and or bandwidth provided by a cloud platform for use by the respective industrial facilities and . For example an owner of the cloud platform may offer subscription services to industrial facilities for use of a predetermined amount of cloud resources which the facilities can use for off site historian and data storage functions execution of cloud based applications or virtual machines using portions of the cloud platform s processing capacity or other such services.

As in previous examples client devices and can search for and retrieve desired industrial cloud templates from the template library managed by provisioning system . However rather than downloading the selected templates to the client devices and for local use at the respective facilities and the selected templates according to the present example can instead be executed on the cloud platform using a portion of each facility s allocated cloud resources and . In some cases cloud based execution of industrial cloud templates may not be appropriate as in the case of cloud templates used to locally configure industrial devices to interact with a cloud based application running on a cloud platform. However some cloud templates could beneficially be maintained and executed remotely on the cloud platform as illustrated in . Such applications can include for example control panel or dashboard templates that allow an administrator to configure and monitor aspects of a cloud based industrial system running on cloud resources virtual machine management templates that allow a user to create start stop or delete virtual machines running on the cloud resources or other such cloud templates. In such examples users e.g. system administrators or plant engineers can invoke their respective cloud templates from cloud storage via client devices and configure or monitor cloud based systems on their respective cloud resources via the cloud templates .

Although the cloud template examples described below generally refer to cloud templates that are installed and executed on local devices e.g. client devices industrial devices or equipment etc. it is to be appreciated that the cloud templates described herein can also be maintained and executed on cloud resources associated with the industrial enterprise in some embodiments as depicted generally in and described above.

In addition to query based searching one or more embodiments of the cloud template provisioning system can also support browsed searching of the cloud template library by allowing the user to navigate the classification hierarchy until a desired cloud is found. Returning now to search interface can provide a browsable interface that allows the user to select classifications corresponding to the classification nodes of the library hierarchy. For example search interface can present a list of industries devices vendors control system types etc. represented in the library hierarchy on a home menu. For example selection of an industry from this list can cause the search interface to submit a corresponding browsing selection to interface component of the provisioning system which routes the browsing selection to the search component for processing. Search component can retrieve control types application types devices categories sub categories and other classifications associated with the selected industry. Interface component returns this information to the search interface which can render the available categories associated with the selected industry and optionally a list of available cloud templates associated with all categories and sub categories depending from the selected industry. The list of cloud templates can be gradually narrowed as the user navigates through lower tiers of the hierarchy in this manner until the user selects a cloud template from the list or until a lowest tier of the hierarchy is reached.

As noted above one or more types of cloud templates described herein can allow users to quickly and easily implement cloud based solutions for industrial automation. The templates can facilitate building and managing cloud environments that can be used in conjunction with an end user s industrial automation system including but not limited to cloud based historian systems operator interface systems virtual machine environments cloud based product tracking systems or other such cloud applications. For example illustrates a control panel template that can provide control over one or more aspects of a cloud based industrial system.

As described above in connection with cloud platform similar to cloud platform can host one or more cloud services e.g. data storage data analysis data historian services control applications including cloud based virtual machines operator interface applications reporting applications notification services etc. . For example a cloud based historian service may execute on cloud platform to facilitate collection and storage of historian data collected from one or more controlled industrial systems on the plant floor. In such a system the industrial systems may comprise a plurality of data historians distributed across multiple levels of an industrial enterprise and or across multiple plant facilities of the enterprise. These distributed data historians can collect and cache selected data from devices across the enterprise e.g. industrial controllers sensors business servers etc. and migrate the data to the cloud platform to be archived in cloud storage . In another example cloud platform can host an operator interface service that allows the industrial systems to be monitored and or controlled remotely via cloud platform . In such systems an operator interface system running as a service on cloud platform can receive industrial data from the industrial systems e.g. via cloud gateways such as cloud gateways of and render the industrial data on authorized Internet capable devices via customized operator interface screens served to the devices from the cloud platform . In yet another example cloud platform can host can execute one or more virtual machines designed to collect production data from the industrial systems and perform analytics on the data. The virtual machine can use the results of such analysis provide supplemental control data to industrial systems.

Depending on the type of cloud based applications or services being executed cloud platform may also maintain a data model that can be leveraged by the applications in conjunction with performing various functions. Data model can represent an industrial enterprise in terms of multiple hierarchical levels and can facilitate integration of devices comprising the industrial systems . Data model can also provide a unified presentation of system data within the overall context of the enterprise as will be discussed in more detail below.

These cloud based applications are only intended to be exemplary and it is to be appreciated that virtually any type of cloud based industrial application can be monitored configured and controlled using the control panel template described herein.

To facilitate high level management of the cloud based industrial applications or services a control panel template can be provided. Control panel template can be acquired for example from a template library managed by a cloud template provisioning system e.g. cloud template provisioning systems and or described above . Control panel template may also be provided to an end user via a portable computer readable storage medium e.g. compact disk flash drive etc. . Installing and executing control panel template on an Internet capable client device e.g. a laptop computer desktop computer cellular phone or other such device can render a cloud control panel via a user interface component of the client device. Cloud control panel serves as a front end interface that allows an administrator to intuitively control many high level aspects of the cloud based system.

For example cloud control panel can include an interface section for managing user access to certain features of the cloud based applications or services. For cloud based historian applications this can include specifying which users are authorized to access selected subsets of historian data stored on cloud storage . For cloud based visualization reporting or operator interface applications this can include defining user access privileges to particular operator interface screens or reports. To these ends cloud control panel can include an interface section that allows entry of relevant information for identifying and accessing the cloud platform e.g. a uniform resource locator of the particular cloud platform associated with the user s industrial systems facility or enterprise administrative credentials etc. . This information allows client device to communicatively connect to the cloud platform and exchange data therewith. Client device can access cloud platform via an integrated network interface or through a separate cloud gateway device. Cloud control panel can also include screens for creating user profiles associated with plant personnel and defining access privileges for the respective profiles. The administrator can configure usernames and passwords for each user profile via the cloud control panel . Client device can then send this user profile information to the cloud platform to facilitate configuration of user access privileges. The user profile information can be stored in a dedicated profile storage area of cloud storage . Thereafter a device that access the cloud services on cloud platform using credentials associated with one of the configured user profiles will be granted access privileges to the cloud based applications and services defined for the user profile. Thus cloud panel template transforms client device into a cloud administrative tool that allows a system administrator or other user to manage user access privileges to services hosted by cloud platform .

In some embodiments cloud control panel can also manage billing aspects in connection with cloud based applications and services. For example cloud control panel can include data entry portions that allow entry of debit account information for an individual user of cloud services or a business entity to which the cloud services are provisioned. The entered billing information can be sent to cloud platform by the client device for storage in a preconfigured partition of cloud storage . Cloud control panel can also include data entry portions that allow the administrator or other user to associate service fees or charging rates with particular types of usage of the cloud services . For example through cloud control panel the user of client device can define a per minute charge for access to a cloud based operator interface service a fee structure for usage of cloud storage for cloud based data historian applications charges associated with a cloud based notification or reporting application or other appropriate billing information. Cloud platform can then use this billing information to automate billing and or account debiting in connection with usage of the cloud based applications and services.

In general control panel template can allow a number of high level cloud administrative aspects to be managed via client device . Cloud control panel generated by control panel template can include a number of intuitive interface features that allow a system administrator or other user to configure and manage these aspects via any suitable client device having Internet access. There may be various types of control panel templates catered to particular types of cloud based applications or services. For example one type of control panel template may be configured for administration and management of a cloud based data historian service while another type of control panel template may be configured for administration and management of a cloud based operator interface service. The control panel template types can be further categorized according to industry types e.g. automotive food and drug oil and gas power generation etc. . These various types of control panel templates can be located and retrieved from the cloud template provisioning system using the search techniques described above. For example the various types of control panel templates can be cataloged in the template libraries of the cloud template provisioning system according to industry type type of cloud service etc. Accordingly users can access the cloud template provisioning system and browse to the control panel template suitable for their particular cloud application and industry.

Although control panel template is illustrated in as being installed on a client device such that cloud configuration data is provided to cloud platform from a locally executing cloud control panel one or more embodiments of control panel template can be executed on cloud platform and accessed remotely by client device to facilitate entry and submission of cloud configuration data as illustrated in .

To facilitate archival of data from the local historians to cloud storage a data collection component on cloud platform monitors and collects specified data values from local historians and migrates the data to cloud storage . In some embodiments the cloud based data historian system can include a data model similar to data model of that hierarchically models the industrial enterprise on which local historians reside. In one or more embodiments data model can represent the industrial enterprise in terms of multiple hierarchical levels where each level comprises units of the enterprise organized as instances of types and their properties. Exemplary types can include for example assets e.g. pumps extruders tanks fillers welding cells utility meters etc. structures e.g. production lines production areas plants enterprises production schedules operators etc. and processes e.g. quality audit repairs test inspection batch product parameters shifts etc. .

Turning briefly to an exemplary organizational hierarchy that can be used as a basis for data model is illustrated. In this exemplary organizational model the hierarchical levels can include from lowest to highest a workcell level a line level an area level a site level and an enterprise level . The type instances described above representing units of the enterprise can be defined for respective levels of this hierarchical structure. In one or more embodiments the cloud based data historian system can provide a standard set of types that allow the user to model an industrial enterprise in terms of these standard types. The cloud based data historian system can also allow custom types to be created allowing users to represent their particular business or manufacturing processes using a combination of standard and user defined types.

Data model allows devices of an automation system their associated historians and data items stored therein to be described and identified in terms of these hierarchical levels allowing a common terminology to be used across the entire enterprise to identify devices and historian data associated with those devices. Thus individual items of historian data e.g. live analog and digital values stored in controller tags archived data values stored in a historian register or other long term data storage device etc. when integrated into cloud based data historian system can be identified and viewed through an interface component by unique historian tags defined by data model . For example through adherence to data model a given item of historian data can be identified with a historian tag or identifier that indicates the data item s origin or context within the organizational hierarchy e.g. SoCal DieCastArea 1HeadlineMachine DowntimeTracking DowntimeMinutes . Data model can represent industrial controllers devices machines or processes as data structures e.g. type instances within this organizational hierarchy to provide context for data generated and stored throughout the enterprise relative to the enterprise as a whole. An exemplary portion of a browsable hierarchy based on enterprise units defined for data model is illustrated in . Thus data model can provide context enhancement that replaces the flat name structure that may be employed within the individual local historians .

Historian template can be provided to facilitate simplified and intuitive implementation of cloud based data historian system . Similar to the control panel template described above in connection with the historian template can be retrieved from a cloud template provisioning system or installed from a portable computer readable storage medium and installed on client device similar to client device of . Execution of historian template by client device can render a historian configuration interface on a user interface component of client device . Historian configuration interface can provide intuitive controls that allow an administrator or other user to configure monitor and manage cloud based historian system . For example historian configuration interface can include an interface section that allows entry of relevant information for identifying and accessing the cloud platform on which the cloud based historian system is to be configured e.g. a uniform resource locator of the particular cloud platform associated with the enterprise etc. . This information allows client device to communicatively connect to the cloud platform and exchange data therewith. As in previously described examples client device can access cloud platform via an integrated network interface or through a separate cloud gateway device.

Historian configuration interface can also include an interface section through which data model is configured. This can include defining one or more levels of the enterprise hierarchy local historians associated with the respective levels and the hierarchical relationships between the historians. Historian configuration interface can also include a data tag configuration section that allows the administrator or other user to specify which data items stored in the local historians are to be aggregated and archived on cloud storage . For example historian configuration interface can include fields that allow the user to identify a device on the enterprise e.g. one or more local historians a controller a business server etc. and a particular data tag of the device containing the data to be collected. In some embodiments the device and or data tag can be specified by browsing a graphical representation of data model rendered on the historian configuration interface and selecting the data item to be collected and stored from the hierarchical representation. Historian configuration interface can also include suitable interface controls that allow the user to define a schedule for archiving the specified data items to cloud storage e.g. once a day once a week every hour etc. .

Once the necessary historian configuration data has been set via historian configuration interface client device can then send this configuration data to the cloud platform to facilitate deployment of the cloud based data historian system . The historian configuration information can be stored in a dedicated storage area of cloud storage associated with the enterprise. Thereafter the specified data from local historians will be archived to cloud storage in accordance with the system configuration. That is data collection component can remotely monitor the indicated data items from cloud platform and migrate the data from the local historians to cloud storage according to the defined schedule. In some scenarios local historians can interact with cloud platform over individual cloud gateways integrated with the respective local historians. Alternatively local historians can provide their stored data to cloud platform over a shared cloud gateway that aggregates the selected data from the local historians and migrates the data to cloud storage under control of data collection component . Thus historian template transforms client device into a historian management tool that allows a system administrator or other user to configure and manage cloud based data historian functionality. Historian data stored on cloud storage can be accessed by an authorized cloud capable client device via interface component . In this regard historian configuration interface can include controls for defining user profiles and associated access privilege for respective users.

In one or more embodiments the template library can include various industry specific historian templates. Each industry specific template can include historian interface features that are customized for a particular type of industry e.g. automotive food and drug power generation oil and gas life sciences etc. . For example a given industry may be known to use common system structures or common types of equipment across most facilities. Accordingly a historian template specific to that industry may include interface features for building data model where the hierarchical levels or equipment types available to be selected for inclusion in the data model include those that are commonly found in that industry.

Once installed historian template can be used to configure the industrial device or cloud gateway device to access a cloud platform and provide a selected subset of data to cloud storage for archival storage. To this end historian template can serve an interface to a client device connected to industrial device or cloud gateway that allows a user to set values for a number of configuration data fields .

Based on the values of configuration data fields the industrial device or cloud gateway can determine which subset of available data is to be provided to cloud platform an identification of the cloud platform to which the data is to be sent a frequency of upload and other such parameters. The exemplary configuration data fields illustrated in include fields for the System ID the Controller ID one or more controller tags a cloud URL uniform resource locator and a maximum local storage where the values of the respective fields can be set by the user. It is to be appreciated that the fields illustrated in are only intended to be exemplary and configuration data fields may include any suitable set of configuration fields without departing from the scope of this disclosure.

The System ID field can be an identifier of the control system for which the data is to be collected. This field can be used when the historian template is installed on a cloud gateway and needs to identify the data sources from which data is to be collected. For example the System ID can identify a production area a machine an assembly line or other system designation. In another example the cloud gateway may be used to collect data from a mobile control and or monitoring system residing on a truck e.g. a system health monitoring system on a cargo or service vehicle and the System ID can be a truck identifier. In this way data from multiple trucks comprising a fleet can be collected using respective cloud gateways on board each truck and the source of the data can be identified by the cloud application by each cloud gateway s System ID. The System ID field or a separate field can also be used to define a communication plug in that the gateway will use e.g. Common Industrial Protocol Modbus OPC DA HAD database etc. 

The Controller ID field can identify an industrial controller from which the data is to be collected e.g. a controller associated with the control system identified by the System ID field and the Controller Tag fields can identify the particular controller tags holding the data. These can include both discrete controller tags containing digital data values as well as analog tags containing integer or real data values. In cases in which historian template is installed on an industrial controller the Controller Tag fields can refer to local tags on the controller containing data that is to be sent to cloud platform for storage. The Cloud URL field can identify the address of the cloud platform to which the data will be sent. The maximum local storage field can be used to configure a maximum amount of local storage space that is to be used for local data storage when communication to the cloud platform has been lost.

Configuration data fields can also include communication parameters defining collection and transmission intervals store and forward preferences and other such configuration information. For example configuration data fields may define an upload interval a data collection interval a number of messages per packet an inactivity timeout duration a maximum number of uploads per minute etc.

Once configured using historian template the industrial device or cloud gateway can interface with cloud platform via a generic Internet layer and provide the data from the specified controller tags to cloud storage in accordance with the defined communication parameters. In the case of industrial devices such as industrial controllers wherein the controller tag fields refer to local controller tags the data can be retrieved from local storage on the device and pushed to the cloud platform . If the historian template is installed on a cloud gateway device the gateway will retrieve the data from the specified data tags on the industrial device s networked to the gateway device and push the data to cloud storage .

Like historian template illustrated in historian template can be an industry specific or device specific template. For example historian template can be a device specific template designed to be compatible with the particular hardware software or firmware of industrial device such that historian template is capable of transforming industrial device into a cloud capable device configured to exchange data with cloud platform .

Virtual machines can comprise for example virtualized hardware and software systems that execute using respective cloud resource allocations. In some exemplary systems virtual machines can be used to execute applications in connection with monitoring and or control of an industrial system . For example one or more of virtual machines can execute control algorithms that monitor and control portions of industrial system remotely from cloud platform . For example an exemplary virtual machine can run a control algorithm that receives data from one or more industrial devices comprising the industrial system e.g. from one or more cloud gateways that gather the data from industrial devices and provide the data to the cloud platform such as cloud gateways of . Virtual machines may also execute data collection applications reporting applications remote operator interface applications automated notification applications or other such systems. In some systems a cloud based hypervisor can manage cloud processing and storage resource utilization for each of the virtual machines . That is the hypervisor dynamically allocates cloud processing and storage resources to each of the virtual machines as the virtual machines perform their respective tasks.

Virtual machine management template can facilitate creation management and deletion of virtual machines on cloud platform . As in previous examples virtual machine management template can be acquired via the cloud template provisioning system described above. When installed and executed on a client device or accessed remotely by client device as in virtual machine management template can generate a virtual machine control panel on a user interface component of client device . Virtual machine control panel can include intuitive interface controls that allow a user to create start stop or delete virtual machines on cloud platform directly from the control panel. These can include for example controls for selecting a type of virtual machine to be deployed naming the virtual machine specifying a hostname of a cloud based host on which the virtual machine is to run specifying a cloud based hypervisor that is to perform resource management for the virtual machine and defining a resource allocation for the virtual machine. Virtual machine control panel can also configure user access privileges for the new virtual machine. Once configured via virtual machine control panel the new virtual machine can be deployed and run on cloud platform . Configuration data received via virtual machine control panel can be submitted to cloud platform via a cloud interface component on client device e.g. a network interface that communicatively couples the client device to the cloud platform via the Internet .

After deployment the virtual machines can be monitored and administered via virtual machine control panel . For example virtual machine control panel can monitor and display current resource utilization for each of the virtual machines . Virtual machines can also be started stopped and deleted via virtual machine control panel .

The template library described above can include multiple industry specific virtual machine management templates suitable for various industry types e.g. automotive power generation food and drug coal and gas mining etc. . A given industry specific virtual machine management template can include virtual machine deployment tools that facilitate creation and deployment of virtual machines and associated cloud based applications that may be of particular utility for the given industry.

The cloud template library can include a number of other types of cloud templates in addition to those described above. For example once a cloud based system has been configured and deployed a dashboard template can be used to display an overview of the cloud based system. When installed and executed on a client device the dashboard template can render a graphical interface that affords a live view of a number of cloud system metrics. In some embodiments the dashboard template can display a current cloud resource utilization for each virtual machine running on the cloud platform an amount of cloud storage being used by a cloud based data historian application or other such metrics. The dashboard template can be configured to provide an administrative view e.g. a broad overview of the entire cloud based system or a personalized view for non administrative users that displays only selected subsets of the cloud system.

Other exemplary cloud templates can include a process control template that facilitates configuration of a cloud based process control system a device hierarchy template that can be used to define an enterprise and or device hierarchy e.g. data model that can be leveraged by one or more cloud based industrial systems in connection with data location retrieval and storage and a services template that can be used to set up unique industrial automation services on the cloud.

Embodiments systems and components described herein as well as industrial control systems and industrial automation environments in which various aspects set forth in the subject specification can be carried out can include computer or network components such as servers clients programmable logic controllers PLCs automation controllers communications modules mobile computers wireless components control components and so forth which are capable of interacting across a network. Computers and servers include one or more processors electronic integrated circuits that perform logic operations employing electric signals configured to execute instructions stored in media such as random access memory RAM read only memory ROM a hard drives as well as removable memory devices which can include memory sticks memory cards flash drives external hard drives and so on.

Similarly the term PLC or automation controller as used herein can include functionality that can be shared across multiple components systems and or networks. As an example one or more PLCs or automation controllers can communicate and cooperate with various network devices across the network. This can include substantially any type of control communications module computer Input Output I O device sensor actuator and human machine interface HMI that communicate via the network which includes control automation and or public networks. The PLC or automation controller can also communicate to and control various other devices such as I O modules including analog digital programmed intelligent I O modules other programmable controllers communications modules sensors actuators output devices and the like.

The network can include public networks such as the internet intranets and automation networks such as control and information protocol CIP networks including DeviceNet ControlNet and Ethernet IP. Other networks include Ethernet DH DH Remote I O Fieldbus Modbus Profibus CAN wireless networks serial protocols and so forth. In addition the network devices can include various possibilities hardware and or software components . These include components such as switches with virtual local area network VLAN capability LANs WANs proxies gateways routers firewalls virtual private network VPN devices servers clients computers configuration tools monitoring tools and or other devices.

In order to provide a context for the various aspects of the disclosed subject matter as well as the following discussion are intended to provide a brief general description of a suitable environment in which the various aspects of the disclosed subject matter may be implemented.

With reference to an example environment for implementing various aspects of the aforementioned subject matter includes a computer . The computer includes a processing unit a system memory and a system bus . The system bus couples system components including but not limited to the system memory to the processing unit . The processing unit can be any of various available processors. Dual microprocessors and other multiprocessor architectures also can be employed as the processing unit .

The system bus can be any of several types of bus structure s including the memory bus or memory controller a peripheral bus or external bus and or a local bus using any variety of available bus architectures including but not limited to 8 bit bus Industrial Standard Architecture ISA Micro Channel Architecture MSA Extended ISA EISA Intelligent Drive Electronics IDE VESA Local Bus VLB Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI Universal Serial Bus USB Advanced Graphics Port AGP Personal Computer Memory Card International Association bus PCMCIA and Small Computer Systems Interface SCSI .

The system memory includes volatile memory and nonvolatile memory . The basic input output system BIOS containing the basic routines to transfer information between elements within the computer such as during start up is stored in nonvolatile memory . By way of illustration and not limitation nonvolatile memory can include read only memory ROM programmable ROM PROM electrically programmable ROM EPROM electrically erasable PROM EEPROM or flash memory. Volatile memory includes random access memory RAM which acts as external cache memory. By way of illustration and not limitation RAM is available in many forms such as synchronous RAM SRAM dynamic RAM DRAM synchronous DRAM SDRAM double data rate SDRAM DDR SDRAM enhanced SDRAM ESDRAM Synchlink DRAM SLDRAM and direct Rambus RAM DRRAM .

Computer also includes removable non removable volatile non volatile computer storage media. illustrates for example a disk storage . Disk storage includes but is not limited to devices like a magnetic disk drive floppy disk drive tape drive Jaz drive Zip drive LS 100 drive flash memory card or memory stick. In addition disk storage can include storage media separately or in combination with other storage media including but not limited to an optical disk drive such as a compact disk ROM device CD ROM CD recordable drive CD R Drive CD rewritable drive CD RW Drive or a digital versatile disk ROM drive DVD ROM . To facilitate connection of the disk storage to the system bus a removable or non removable interface is typically used such as interface .

It is to be appreciated that describes software that acts as an intermediary between users and the basic computer resources described in suitable operating environment . Such software includes an operating system . Operating system which can be stored on disk storage acts to control and allocate resources of the computer . System applications take advantage of the management of resources by operating system through program modules and program data stored either in system memory or on disk storage . It is to be appreciated that one or more embodiments of the subject disclosure can be implemented with various operating systems or combinations of operating systems.

A user enters commands or information into the computer through input device s . Input devices include but are not limited to a pointing device such as a mouse trackball stylus touch pad keyboard microphone joystick game pad satellite dish scanner TV tuner card digital camera digital video camera web camera and the like. These and other input devices connect to the processing unit through the system bus via interface port s . Interface port s include for example a serial port a parallel port a game port and a universal serial bus USB . Output device s use some of the same type of ports as input device s . Thus for example a USB port may be used to provide input to computer and to output information from computer to an output device . Output adapter is provided to illustrate that there are some output devices like monitors speakers and printers among other output devices which require special adapters. The output adapters include by way of illustration and not limitation video and sound cards that provide a means of connection between the output device and the system bus . It should be noted that other devices and or systems of devices provide both input and output capabilities such as remote computer s .

Computer can operate in a networked environment using logical connections to one or more remote computers such as remote computer s . The remote computer s can be a personal computer a server a router a network PC a workstation a microprocessor based appliance a peer device or other common network node and the like and typically includes many or all of the elements described relative to computer . For purposes of brevity only a memory storage device is illustrated with remote computer s . Remote computer s is logically connected to computer through a network interface and then physically connected via communication connection . Network interface encompasses communication networks such as local area networks LAN and wide area networks WAN . LAN technologies include Fiber Distributed Data Interface FDDI Copper Distributed Data Interface CDDI Ethernet IEEE 802.3 Token Ring IEEE 802.5 and the like. WAN technologies include but are not limited to point to point links circuit switching networks like Integrated Services Digital Networks ISDN and variations thereon packet switching networks and Digital Subscriber Lines DSL .

Communication connection s refers to the hardware software employed to connect the network interface to the system bus . While communication connection is shown for illustrative clarity inside computer it can also be external to computer . The hardware software necessary for connection to the network interface includes for exemplary purposes only internal and external technologies such as modems including regular telephone grade modems cable modems and DSL modems ISDN adapters and Ethernet cards.

What has been described above includes examples of the subject innovation. It is of course not possible to describe every conceivable combination of components or methodologies for purposes of describing the disclosed subject matter but one of ordinary skill in the art may recognize that many further combinations and permutations of the subject innovation are possible. Accordingly the disclosed subject matter is intended to embrace all such alterations modifications and variations that fall within the spirit and scope of the appended claims.

In particular and in regard to the various functions performed by the above described components devices circuits systems and the like the terms including a reference to a means used to describe such components are intended to correspond unless otherwise indicated to any component which performs the specified function of the described component e.g. a functional equivalent even though not structurally equivalent to the disclosed structure which performs the function in the herein illustrated exemplary aspects of the disclosed subject matter. In this regard it will also be recognized that the disclosed subject matter includes a system as well as a computer readable medium having computer executable instructions for performing the acts and or events of the various methods of the disclosed subject matter.

In addition while a particular feature of the disclosed subject matter may have been disclosed with respect to only one of several implementations such feature may be combined with one or more other features of the other implementations as may be desired and advantageous for any given or particular application. Furthermore to the extent that the terms includes and including and variants thereof are used in either the detailed description or the claims these terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising. 

In this application the word exemplary is used to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any aspect or design described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other aspects or designs. Rather use of the word exemplary is intended to present concepts in a concrete fashion.

Various aspects or features described herein may be implemented as a method apparatus or article of manufacture using standard programming and or engineering techniques. The term article of manufacture as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device carrier or media. For example computer readable media can include but are not limited to magnetic storage devices e.g. hard disk floppy disk magnetic strips . . . optical disks e.g. compact disk CD digital versatile disk DVD . . . smart cards and flash memory devices e.g. card stick key drive . . . .

