---

title: Monolithically integrated absolute frequency comb laser system
abstract: Rather than down-convert optical frequencies, a QCL laser system directly generates a THz frequency comb in a compact monolithically integrated chip that can be locked to an absolute frequency without the need of a frequency-comb synthesizer. The monolithic, absolute frequency comb can provide a THz frequency reference and tool for high-resolution broad band spectroscopy.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09391420&OS=09391420&RS=09391420
owner: Sandia Corporation
number: 09391420
owner_city: Albuquerque
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150921
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 62 053 348 filed Sep. 22 2014 which is incorporated herein by reference.

This invention was made with Government support under contract no. DE AC04 94AL85000 awarded by the U.S. Department of Energy to Sandia Corporation. The Government has certain rights in the invention.

The present invention relates to laser frequency combs and in particular to monolithically integrated absolute frequency comb laser system that can operate in the terahertz spectral region.

Many existing and proposed applications in the terahertz regime e.g. 0.1 10 THz such as astrophysics high resolution molecular spectroscopy plasma diagnostics and manipulation of cold molecules require very precise knowledge of the signal frequencies. Existing systems to generate absolute frequency combs use external non linear elements to create harmonics or difference frequencies and then mix the created frequencies on a separate detector fast enough to see the offset between the laser modes and the comb separation. Recent developments in frequency combs have provided frequency measurement precision with one hertz Hz resolution over nearly all frequencies. However systems to create absolute frequency combs are typically quite large and in the terahertz THz the comb is generated by inefficient down conversion from optical frequency combs.

The present invention is directed to a monolithic absolute frequency comb in the THz to provide a THz frequency reference and tool for high resolution broad band spectroscopy. Rather than down convert optical frequencies the laser system of the present invention directly generates a THz frequency comb in a compact monolithically integrated chip that can be locked to an absolute frequency without the need of a frequency comb synthesizer. A broad gain THz quantum cascade laser QCL is used to generate a comb of emission lines. Using the difference signal generated by multiple laser modes mixing in a monolithically integrated detector the frequency separation between the modes can be locked to 1 Hz resolution thereby providing evenly spaced tick marks on a frequency ruler. Analogous to optical frequency combs by expanding the laser bandwidth to more than an octave generating harmonics and by mixing more modes can be precisely set and the tick marks can be precisely located on the ruler to provide absolute frequency calibration.

The present invention combines these elements into a single compact device wherein an embedded diode or a non linear element that senses the internal laser fields can create the harmonics and the difference frequencies and also mix these products against the original lines simultaneously. This minimizes optical components eliminates alignment and feedback issues and greatly reduces size. In addition the optical fields inside the laser are much stronger than any fields emitted by the laser which improves generation of the mixed signals since they are generated by non linear processes which improve in efficiency as the power increases. Finally integrating the required broad gain QCL second harmonic generator and frequency mixer elements onto a single small chip can expand the potential application space for THz frequency combs by significantly reducing size weight and complexity of existing systems.

A frequency comb comprises a light source whose spectrum consists of a series of discrete equally spaced spectral lines. Frequency combs are typically generated by means of a mode locked laser whereby a fixed phase relationship is induced between the longitudinal modes of the laser s resonant cavity thereby stabilizing the pulse train generated by the laser. Each time a pulse circulating in the laser cavity reaches the output coupler a fraction of its energy is coupled out of the laser. The emitted pulse therefore has a precisely periodic envelope function with a repetition frequency equal to the inverse round trip transit time of the pulse in the laser cavity.

The present invention uses a laser with a broad bandwidth such that it lases on modes simultaneously spanning more than 1 octave of frequency space i.e. the highest frequency emitted is larger than twice the lowest frequency . The invention can use a quantum cascade laser in a Fabry Perot cavity that emits many Fabry Perot modes simultaneously with a uniform mode spacing. Due to waveguide dispersion which is high in THz waveguides the free running mode spacing will not necessarily be constant across the whole span. However equal mode spacing can be forced by driving the laser bias at a frequency corresponding to the frequency separation between the Fabry Perot modes or by locking the beat frequency between the modes with a much slower proportional integral derivative PID control loop controlling the laser current. See S. Barbieri et al. 4 636 2010 A. Baryshev et al. 89 031115 2006 and M. C. Wanke et al. 19 24810 2011 . It is possible that self mixing in the laser may passively create equal mode spacings for certain laser parameters but this is less understood and may be unstable. See Hugi et al. 492 229 2012 . Therefore according to the present invention the laser can be actively driven at the frequency separation of the modes to ensure uniform mode separation difference frequency f so that the slower PID control can be used simultaneously to lock the absolute frequency. To ensure the spacing remains uniform over an entire octave the waveguide can be engineered to reduce waveguide dispersion. See Burghoff et al. 8 462 2014 .

In is shown a schematic illustration of a monolithically integrated absolute frequency comb laser system that can be used to generate a frequency comb. The system integrates a terahertz QCL and a Schottky diode onto a single semiconductor chip platform. See U.S. Pat. No. 7 550 734 and U.S. Pat. No. 8 274 058 both of which are incorporated herein by reference. The QCL comprises a layered heterostructure of two or more semiconductor alloys forming an active semiconductor core between a top waveguide layer and a bottom contact layer . The top and bottom layers and are typically metal or doped semiconductor layers that keep most of the mode in a laser cavity defined by end facets and . In particular with terahertz QCLs the mode is confined by interaction with a surface plasmon at the core metal interface. The waveguide layers and can also provide electrical contacts to the semiconductor core . The Schottky diode can be the interface between the semiconductor core and a metal . To make a diode the metal at this interface must be rectifying. For example titanium makes a particularly stable Schottky contact to a GaAs based semiconductor core. The laser field intensity inside the laser cavity is high at the metal semiconductor interface defining the Schottky diode. The layers and over the rest of the semiconductor core can be a different metal that preferably provides an ohmic contact to the semiconductor material rather than a rectifying contact. Each time a pulse circulating in the laser cavity reaches an exit end facet a fraction of its energy is coupled out of the laser to provide the frequency comb .

The difference frequencies can also be generated by mixing on other non linear elements that sense the laser fields such as a non ohmic laser contact or the non linear current voltage relation of the laser itself. See P. Gellie et al. 18 20799 2010 .

As described above there are two ways to ensure f is fixed across the whole span of laser frequencies. First the QCL can be actively injection locked by direct modulation of the bias current at the round trip frequency. See P. Gellie 18 20799 2010 . Second feedback from the Schottky diode integrated into the QCL can be used to internally phase lock the difference frequencies f s among the Fabry Perot longitudinal modes of the QCL. Because the internal THz fields of the QCL modes permeate the semiconductor layer making up the diode s cathode the diode couples to and mixes the QCL fields to generate a down converted signal at frequency f e.g. at a round trip frequency of 10 30 GHz mode spacing . These microwave f signals can be taken from a co planar waveguide fed by the diode contact and amplified. To phase lock the difference frequency between the internal Fabry Perot modes the amplified microwave f signal originating from the diode can be input into a microwave frequency counter with error correction. The frequency counter generates a phase error signal proportional to the difference between the f input and a set point microwave frequency. The error signal can then fed back to a voltage controlled power supply that bias the QCL. See M. C. Wanke et al. 19 24810 2011 .

Besides generating a signal at f corresponding to frequency difference of nearest neighbor laser modes the non linear response of the diode will mix any frequencies it is driven by including the non nearest neighbor laser modes harmonics and sum frequencies. For a 3 mm long QCL f 10 GHz and a comb of difference frequencies will be generated by the diode with frequencies fm m f where m is an integer less than or equal to nmax i.e. row B in . The lower frequencies of this difference frequency comb can be measured using microwave electronics. This comb of difference frequencies generated by the actual laser lines will span from f1 f0 f to fnmax f0 nmax f. If fnmax 2 f0 then the highest difference frequency will be higher than f0 and the difference frequency will beat against the fundamental modes to generate additional frequencies at n f and n f i.e. row D in . If the comb frequency separation f and the frequency are simultaneously locked then the frequency of every comb tooth is precisely determined with an error of n p f where . stands for the measurement error or uncertainty of the variable in parentheses. Here the direct laser current modulation technique can be used to control f and the PID feedback loop can be used to independently control .

The same diode in the laser can generate the second harmonic and the sum frequencies of the fundamental laser modes it is also possible to generate the second harmonics in the laser itself . As depicted in rows C and E of both of these sets of frequencies will be offset from the fundamental laser lines by an amount equal at n f for fundamental lines below a frequency in these sets and n f for laser modes higher than a frequency in these two sets. These are the exact same frequencies generated by mixing the difference frequencies against the fundamental frequencies i.e. row D in . Whether the signal having frequency is generated by mixing of harmonics or sum frequency terms against the fundamental laser terms or whether it is generated by the difference frequencies generated by the diode mixing against the fundamental laser modes the comb can be still locked to an absolute frequency as described above. In reality some combination of all these various mixing terms will occur and it will not be possible to tell how much of each frequency comes from which term but it does not make a difference to the lock since independent of the mixing mechanism the same frequencies are generated.

As mentioned above two mechanisms have been demonstrated to lock f in a THz QCL injecting RF power into the laser bias at a frequency of the laser mode separation or using a PID loop to lock the laser mode separation against a reference frequency. To lock both f and simultaneously RF power can be injected into the laser bias to lock f and then the average DC laser current can be controlled with a PID loop to lock to an available stabilized electronic reference frequency. Measurements on THz QCLs with integrated diodes have already demonstrated that f and can be controlled independently without impacting the other which makes locking the two frequencies independently much easier. See M. C. Wanke et al. 19 24810 2011 and M. C. Wanke et al. 4 565 2010 .

Note that while the ideal situation as described above requires an octave spanning laser spectrum it is not actually required to have an octave spanning spectrum it just makes things easier. If for example fnmax f0 f0 2 then the maximum difference frequencies between laser modes generated will be at f fnmax f0 f0 2. This frequency in the diode can then mix against f0 to generate another mixer frequency at f f0 f0 2 f0 2. These two frequencies can mix to generate f f . The diode may also produce the second harmonic of f in the diode. This second harmonic occurs at f0 and if this mixes with f0 will produce a response at the frequency . Therefore again a frequency at will be generated and can be used to lock the absolute laser frequency. Both of these processes require 3order or higher mixing products where the order of mixing refers to how many times mixing needs to occur to get a mixing product at . As the order increases the strength of the signal decreases which will require higher initial power in the relevant laser modes to ensure the generated power at frequency remains above the noise floor. If sufficient power exists in the laser modes to drive higher order harmonics up to harmonic r of the generated beat frequencies of the fundamental laser modes the span required is reduced to f0 r.

If the harmonic generation or mixing by the diode generates signals that are too small to use for locking the laser it is also possible to use external components to optimize harmonic or mixing signal generation and re inject the signals generated into the laser itself or into the diode. Mixing between externally generated signals injected into the laser and the fundamental laser modes has already been demonstrated. See M. C. Wanke et al. 19 24810 2011 . Thus a second harmonic of the laser modes can be generated by a non linear crystal and re injected into the laser or some integer multiple of the microwave difference frequency f can be amplified harmonically multiplied up to the fundamental laser frequency and re injected into the laser. See J. C. Pearson et al. . 82 093105 2011 . This can increase the system size and complexity but may significantly enhance the mixing signals. While the discussion above focused mostly on THz quantum cascade lasers the same principles apply to MIR quantum cascade lasers as well.

The present invention has been described as a monolithically integrated absolute frequency comb laser system. It will be understood that the above description is merely illustrative of the applications of the principles of the present invention the scope of which is to be determined by the claims viewed in light of the specification. Other variants and modifications of the invention will be apparent to those of skill in the art.

