---

title: Call-termination-triggered social interface
abstract: Methods and systems directed to a call-termination triggered social interface that leverages information associated with an incoming phone number for display to a user of a mobile device post-call and permits the user to conveniently issue commands to the mobile device or social networking system to take specific actions for the number or entity associated with the number on the social network.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09407691&OS=09407691&RS=09407691
owner: Facebook, Inc.
number: 09407691
owner_city: Menlo Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20151116
---
This application is a continuation under 35 U.S.C. 120 of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 316 209 filed 9 Dec. 2011.

The present disclosure relates generally to a social networking interface triggered by a call termination event.

The advent of social networking and ubiquitous wireless data networks allows a user of the social network to remotely retrieve an enormous amount of profile data for his or her contacts or friends on the social network with little to no latency. Directory service based caller ID systems may lack access to data that is available on the social networking system and a user may manually access a dedicated social networking application after a call terminates if he or she wishes to perform on network actions relating to the entity or user associated with the social networking system.

The figures depict various embodiments of the present invention for purposes of illustration only. One skilled in the art will readily recognize from the following discussion that alternative embodiments of the structures and methods illustrated herein may be employed without departing from the principles of the invention described herein.

Particular embodiments relate to social interface triggered by a call termination event that pulls profile information from a social networking system and permits the user to quickly perform actions on the social networking system through user selectable interface elements. In particular embodiments the social interface may be delivered to the user as an HTML5 mobile application or web page. In particular embodiments it may be a separate application.

Implementations of the present invention extend these concepts by allowing the social networking system may still pull public profile information of incoming callers for display to the user receiving the call. Further when the incoming number is not associated with any particular user but a hub page representing a business the social network may also pull information from the hub page for display to the user. Further the social networking system may send reviews of the calling entity from the friends of the user on the social networking system and permit the user to confirm or dispute the review. Finally where the social networking system has no information about the incoming call it may request that the user categorize or describe the call for future reference by other members of the social networking system.

Client device interacts with external websites and other service providers through a web browser residing on the client device or a dedicated application local to client device . For example client device may interact with third party instant VoIP service such as Google Voice or Skype by visiting and logging into their account via a web browser or by installing and running a dedicated application. The same applies for video calls via third party service providers such as Apple FaceTime or Tango. This disclosure contemplates any type of third party service provider connected to network or PSTN .

A user of the client device interacts with the social networking system via an application such as a web browser or a native application to perform operations such as browsing content posting and sending messages retrieving and sorting messages received from other users and the like. Messages can be in any electronic message format such as electronic mail e mail messages chat messages comments left on a user s webpage and short message service SMS text messages. Messages can contain plain text or they can contain other content such as pictures videos and attachments. Each user has a mailbox that includes messages that are both sent and received by the user. Client device may also use an application or browser to pull and view profile information for various user nodes and hubs in social networking system .

Client device connected through wireless network may also interact with other client devices through the circuit switched or non data portion of wireless network . For example a user at client device may transmit and receive a non VoIP call to a cellular phone or landline in PSTN transmit and receive a text or multi media message through the SMS or MMS channels or receive push notifications through the SMS control channel.

Additionally the third party website can also interact with the social networking system via a system provided application programming interface API . For example the third party website can perform operations supported by the API such as delivering messages to the social network system retrieving messages stored by the social networking system and obtaining social information about users of the social networking system .

The social networking system comprises an object store and a graph information store . The object store stores information on objects such as users represented in or by the social networking environment . The graph information store stores information on the relationships of the objects in the object store .

In particular embodiments the social graph information includes a first set of user nodes that each correspond to a respective user and a second set of concept nodes that each correspond to a respective concept. As used herein a user may be an individual human user an entity e.g. an enterprise business or third party application or a group e.g. of individuals or entities that interacts or communicates with or over such a social network environment. As used herein a concept may refer to virtually anything that a user may declare or otherwise demonstrate an interest in a like towards or a relationship with such as by way of example a sport a sports team a genre of music a musical composer a hobby a business enterprise an entity a group a third party application a celebrity a person who is not a registered user etc. In particular embodiments each node has represents or is represented by a corresponding web page profile page hosted or accessible in the social network environment.

By way of example a user node may have a corresponding user profile page in which the corresponding user can add content make declarations and otherwise express him or herself while a concept node may have a corresponding concept profile page hub in which a plurality of users can add content make declarations and express themselves particularly in relation to the concept. In particular embodiments the social graph information further includes a plurality of edges that each define or represent a connection between a corresponding pair of nodes in the social graph. In particular embodiments profile information for user nodes is stored in user store while hub page information for concepts such as businesses is stored in hubs store . Nodes directly connected by a friend edge are considered one degree of separation away and are listed as friends on the social network. Users of the social network may specify elements or portions of their profile which may be viewed only by friends or friends of friends second degree contacts . In particular embodiments users may define privacy settings that only allow certain groups or individual members of the social network to view portions of their profile. For further detail on hubs please see U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 763 171 titled Integrated Social Network Environment previously filed on Apr. 19 2010 and fully incorporated by reference herein.

Social interface includes a photo of the incoming caller pulled from user store . In particular embodiments photo is the profile picture for the incoming caller. In particular embodiments photo is a random photo pulled from the incoming caller s photos. In particular embodiments photo is a photo that the incoming caller has been tagged in.

Social interface also includes the incoming caller s name and socially relevant data that the user may quickly skim when deciding whether perform social actions . Socially relevant data is anything that may be pertinent to the user that may be pulled from social networking system .

In particular embodiments social interface displays the number of the incoming call as well as the type of number mobile home office etc. . In particular embodiments social interface displays publicly posted work information . In particular embodiments social interface displays publicly posted current city of residence . In particular embodiments the social networking system queries a socially graph to determine the number of mutual first degree connections between the user node associated with the client device and the user node associated with the incoming phone number. In such embodiments social interface displays the number of mutual friends to the user.

In particular embodiments privacy information is respected by the application generating social interface . For example if the caller has put the user on a limited profile that does not allow the user to see his current city that setting will be respected and not displayed to the user. The only information that is displayed to the called user is information the calling user has made public

Social interface also includes social actions . In particular embodiments social interface includes an add to friends button which when selected by a user transmits an instruction to social networking system to transmit a friend request on the social network to the calling user from the called user. Thus the user may quickly add a calling party as a friend on the social network traditionally the user would be required to open a separate social networking application or navigate to the social networking web page from their mobile browser search for the user s name if known and manually send a friend request to the calling user.

In particular embodiments social interface includes an add to address book button . In particular embodiments the address book is locally maintained on client device and the relevant information from social interface such as profile picture and social information may be automatically added into client s address book stored in local memory. In particular embodiments social networking system may store an address book or phone book for the user associated with client device on its own servers. In such embodiments social networking system may add relevant information as well as a link to the calling party s social networking profile page in the called member s server side address book. In particular embodiments button may import the calling party data to both a local and server side address book. In particular embodiments button may cause client device to export a vcard to Outlook or another contact management application. This disclosure contemplates any suitable manner of adding calling party information to an address book as well as any suitable storage location for the called member s address book.

In particular embodiments social interface includes a report spam and block button which when actuated transmits an instruction to social network identifying the calling party as spam or telemarketing. In particular embodiments social networking system adds the called user s review to database of reviews for the calling number. In particular embodiments button causes client device to apply a policy so as to no longer ring when receiving a call from the incoming telephone number . This disclosure contemplates any suitable action buttons whether the actions are performed on social networking system locally on client device or a mixture of the two.

Social interface includes a picture of the business or node owner. In particular embodiments picture is the profile picture for the hub. In particular embodiments social interface includes the name of the business or hub owner in this case The Old Pro and its phone number . In particular embodiments social interface also includes socially relevant data such as for example the number of friends of the user who have liked the hub or the number of friends who have or are currently checked in to the hub. Additionally in particular embodiments a map to the business or location associated with the hub may be displayed. In particular embodiments the address of the business may be displayed in lieu or in addition to a map. In particular embodiments this map is selectable and can provide a link to navigation instructions or other actions by client device .

Social interface may include action buttons in a similar manner as described with reference to . In particular embodiments social interface may include a like button . In response to a user selecting like button mobile device transmits an instruction to social networking system which then generates a like edge in the social graph between the node associated with mobile device and the node representing the business on the social networking system. In particular embodiments this is reflected on both the user s profile page as well as the business s hub page. In particular embodiments social networking system utilizes an open graph protocol that permits any business to define actions a user may take. In particular embodiments social interface may include buttons permitting any action that is permitted on the business s hub page.

In particular embodiments social interface includes an add to address book button . In particular embodiments the address book is locally maintained on client device and the relevant information from social interface such as profile picture and social information may be automatically added into client s address book stored in local memory. In particular embodiments social networking system may store an address book or phone book for the user associated with client device on its own servers. In such embodiments social networking system may add relevant information as well as a link to the calling party s social networking profile page in the called member s server side address book. In particular embodiments button may import the calling party data to both a local and server side address book. In particular embodiments button may cause client device to export a vcard to Outlook or another contact management application. This disclosure contemplates any suitable manner of adding calling party information to an address book as well as any suitable storage location for the called member s address book.

In particular embodiments social interface includes a report spam and block button which when actuated transmits an instruction to social network identifying the calling party as spam or telemarketing. In particular embodiments social networking system adds the called user s review to database of reviews for the calling number. In particular embodiments button causes client device to apply a policy so as to no longer ring when receiving a call from the incoming telephone number . This disclosure contemplates any suitable action buttons whether the actions are performed on social networking system locally on client device or a mixture of the two.

Social interface includes a confirm button yes or a dispute button no that allows the user of mobile device to confirm that the incoming call was telemarketing or spam or in particular embodiments that the telemarketing spam was attributed to the correct entity. Alternatively the user of mobile device may select No button to inform social networking system that the call was not spam telemarketing or that it was improperly attributed.

Social interface includes a prompt that requests that the user of mobile device provide information regarding the previously terminated call. In particular embodiments social networking system performs a reverse lookup based on the area code of the calling number and displays a map of the area code in social interface . In particular embodiments social interface provides a description of the geographic area associated with the area code of incoming number . This disclosure contemplates the inclusion of any other information that may be deduced from publicly available databases based on incoming number in social interface .

Social interface may in particular embodiments include Spam button and other button that when actuated transmit information back to social networking system to flag the incoming number as a spam call or non spam call respectively. Upon receiving the flag social networking system may for a new number create a node associated with the number and mark it in accordance with user instruction or update an existing node in the social graph.

In particular embodiments social interface may include a search bar that allows a user to type and search for concept nodes or businesses to attribute the incoming call to. For example the user may seek to correct an attribution from Comcast to AT T by typing AT T in search bar selecting AT T from a drop down menu and selecting spam button . In particular embodiments search bar utilizes a typeahead feature that employs real time search. For example as the user begins typing each character is transmitted to social networking system and searched against a database of concept nodes substantially in real time.

In particular embodiments social interface includes an add to address book button as previously described with respect to .

At Step mobile device transmits the number of the incoming call to the social networking system. In particular embodiments mobile device may transmit other information such as a social networking system identifier for the user account associated with mobile device to social networking system . In particular embodiments the social networking system recognizes mobile device s MAC address phone number IMEI IP address or other identifier to associate mobile device with a social networking user ID. This disclosure contemplates any suitable method of associating mobile device with a social networking ID. Regardless of the method the social networking system recognizes the incoming transmission as a transmission from a device associated with a particular user node in the social graph.

At Step social networking system receives the phone number or other identifier of the incoming call communication and performs a reverse lookup for any nodes in the social graph that are associated with the number. In particular embodiments a node may be associated with a number with or without express permission by the node administrator. For example if user A adds a number to his or her phone book for user B the social networking system may in particular embodiments associate the phone number entered in user A s phone book with user B even if user B has not added the number to his or her profile page. As another example multiple users may submit that a particular 800 number is associated with the node for Continental Airlines. Social networking system may in particular embodiments associate the number with the Continental Airlines node even if Continental does not add the number to its hub page. In particular embodiments social networking system may crawl third party telephone directories such as gethuman.com to associate phone numbers with concept nodes in the social graph.

At Step if social networking system cannot find an associated node for the incoming number it creates a node for the incoming number in the social graph. For example even if the number is entirely new to social networking system the system will still store a record of the call and phone number in the hopes that eventually a node will either explicitly claim ownership of the number or another user will associate the number with a particular user or concept node. After creating a temporary node for the incoming phone number social networking system transmits an object containing social interface to mobile device . In particular embodiments an application on client maintains the resources necessary to render social interface and social networking system merely transmits a command to mobile device s application. In particular embodiments social networking system transmits an HTML5 web page to mobile device and mobile device renders social interface via its browser. In particular embodiments client device transmits a JSON object containing JavaScript code and rendering assets for client device to render and display to the user. This disclosure contemplates any suitable method of generating social interfaces for display on mobile device .

At Step if social networking system determines that a node exists in the social graph that is associated with the received incoming phone number social networking system transmits an object based on the type of node associated with the number. In Step if the node associated with the number is a user node social networking system transmits an object containing social interface . Similarly if the node associated with a phone number is a business or concept node social networking system transmits an object containing social interface .

Finally if the number is associated only with a temporary node such as for the new node generated in Step social networking system at Step first looks for any ratings attached to the node such as spam or telemarketing flags made by the first degree connections of the user. In particular embodiments social networking system searches for ratings from any user not just the called user s first degree connections. In particular embodiments where there are conflicting ratings social networking system weights the called user s friend s ratings more heavily. In particular embodiments social networking system weights the called user s friends based on a social coefficient representing the degree of closeness between the called user and his or her friends. After pulling the required data social networking system transmits an object containing social interface to mobile device .

At Step mobile device displays one of social interfaces to the user and awaits input from the user. In particular embodiments social interfaces provide a selectable option to exit the social interfaces when the user cannot be bothered with filling out call information. In particular embodiments clicking the exit option still permits the user to return to the social interfaces for later use for example from a call log application. In particular embodiments mobile device transmits call log data to social networking system and the user may enter information about each call through social interfaces on mobile device or alternatively at a later point through the social networking system s web site.

After receiving one or more inputs at Step mobile device translates user inputs into instructions and transmits them back to social networking system . At Step social networking system performs one or more actions as described above in accordance with the instructions. In particular embodiments social networking system may transmit additional social interfaces as follow up questions. For example user receiving social interface at Step may respond that the ratings were not correct by actuating no button . In particular embodiments social networking system may in response transmit an object containing social interface to mobile device . The user may then enter a concept node identifier through search bar and social networking system may associate the temporary node for the incoming number to the identified concept node in response. As previously discussed this disclosure contemplates any combination of actions performed on social networking system whether alone or in conjunction with local actions performed on mobile device .

While the foregoing embodiments may be implemented in a variety of network configurations the following illustrates an example network environment for didactic and not limiting purposes. illustrates an example network environment . Network environment includes a network coupling one or more servers and one or more clients to each other. Network environment also includes one or more data storage linked to one or more servers . Particular embodiments may be implemented in network environment . For example a social networking system frontend may be written in software programs hosted by one or more servers . For example event database may be stored in one or more storage . In particular embodiments network is an intranet an extranet a virtual private network VPN a local area network LAN a wireless LAN WLAN a wide area network WAN a metropolitan area network MAN a portion of the Internet or another network or a combination of two or more such networks . The present disclosure contemplates any suitable network . One or more links couple a server or a client to network . In particular embodiments one or more links each includes one or more wired wireless or optical links or networks.

In particular embodiments each server may be a unitary server or may be a distributed server spanning multiple computers or multiple datacenters. Servers may be of various types such as for example and without limitation web server news server mail server message server advertising server file server application server exchange server database server or proxy server. In particular embodiments each server may include hardware software or embedded logic components or a combination of two or more such components for carrying out the appropriate functionalities implemented or supported by server .

In particular embodiments one or more data storages may be communicatively linked to one or more servers via one or more links . In particular embodiment each data storage may be a relational database. Particular embodiments may provide interfaces that enable servers or clients to manage e.g. retrieve modify add or delete the information stored in data storage .

In particular embodiments each client may be an electronic device including hardware software or embedded logic components or a combination of two or more such components and capable of carrying out the appropriate functions implemented or supported by client . For example and without limitation a client may be a desktop computer system a notebook computer system a netbook computer system a handheld electronic device or a mobile telephone. The present disclosure contemplates any suitable clients . A client may enable a network user at client to access network . A client may enable its user to communicate with other users at other clients .

A client may have a web browser and may have one or more add ons plug ins or other extensions. A user at client may enter a Uniform Resource Locator URL or other address directing the web browser to a server and the web browser may generate a Hyper Text Transfer Protocol HTTP request and communicate the HTTP request to server . Server may accept the HTTP request and communicate to client one or more Hyper Text Markup Language HTML files responsive to the HTTP request. Client may render a web page based on the HTML files from server for presentation to the user. The present disclosure contemplates any suitable web page files Herein reference to a web page encompasses one or more corresponding web page files which a browser may use to render the web page and vice versa where appropriate.

In particular embodiments computer system includes a processor memory storage an input output I O interface a communication interface and a bus . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular computer system having a particular number of particular components in a particular arrangement this disclosure contemplates any suitable computer system having any suitable number of any suitable components in any suitable arrangement.

In particular embodiments processor includes hardware for executing instructions such as those making up a computer program. As an example and not by way of limitation to execute instructions processor may retrieve or fetch the instructions from an internal register an internal cache memory or storage decode and execute them and then write one or more results to an internal register an internal cache memory or storage . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular processor this disclosure contemplates any suitable processor.

In particular embodiments memory includes main memory for storing instructions for processor to execute or data for processor to operate on. As an example and not by way of limitation computer system may load instructions from storage or another source such as for example another computer system to memory . One or more memory buses which may each include an address bus and a data bus may couple processor to memory . Bus may include one or more memory buses as described below. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular memory this disclosure contemplates any suitable memory.

In particular embodiments storage includes mass storage for data or instructions. As an example and not by way of limitation storage may include an HDD a flash memory an optical disc a magneto optical disc magnetic tape or a Universal Serial Bus USB drive or a combination of two or more of these. Storage may include removable or non removable or fixed media where appropriate. Storage may be internal or external to computer system where appropriate. This disclosure contemplates mass storage taking any suitable physical form. Where appropriate storage may include one or more storages . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular storage this disclosure contemplates any suitable storage.

In particular embodiments I O interface includes hardware software or both providing one or more interfaces for communication between computer system and one or more I O devices. One or more of these I O devices may enable communication between a person and computer system . This disclosure contemplates any suitable I O devices and any suitable I O interfaces for them. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular I O interface this disclosure contemplates any suitable I O interface.

In particular embodiments communication interface includes hardware software or both providing one or more interfaces for communication such as for example packet based communication between computer system and one or more other computer systems or one or more networks. This disclosure contemplates any suitable network and any suitable communication interface for it. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular communication interface this disclosure contemplates any suitable communication interface.

In particular embodiments bus includes hardware software or both coupling components of computer system to each other. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular bus this disclosure contemplates any suitable bus or interconnect.

The client side functionality described above can be implemented as a series of instructions stored on a computer readable storage medium that when executed cause a programmable processor to implement the operations described above.

While client device may be implemented in a variety of different hardware and computing systems shows a schematic representation of the main components of an example computing platform according to various particular embodiments. Multipoint sensing devices generally include a controller which may comprise a microcontroller or one or more processors configured to execute instructions and to carry out operations associated with a computing platform. Controller may optionally contain a cache memory unit for temporary local storage of instructions data or computer addresses. By way of example using instructions retrieved from memory controller may control the reception and manipulation of input and output data between components of computing platform .

Controller together with a suitable operating system may operate to execute instructions in the form of computer code and produce and use data. The operating system other computer code including control client described below and or data may be physically stored within a memory block that is operatively coupled to controller .

Memory block encompasses one or more storage media and generally provides a place to store computer code e.g. software and or firmware and data that are used by the computing platform . Memory block may include one or more fixed storage devices in the form of by way of example solid state hard disk drives HDDs among other suitable forms of memory coupled bi directionally to controller . Information may also reside on a removable storage medium loaded into or installed in multipoint sensing devices when needed. By way of example any of a number of suitable memory cards may be loaded into computing platform on a temporary or permanent basis.

Controller is also generally coupled to a variety of interfaces such as graphics control video interface input interface output interface and storage interface and network interface and these interfaces in turn are coupled to the appropriate devices. In certain embodiments Controller may connected to an input structure and display may be provided together such an in the case of a touchscreen where a touch sensitive mechanism is provided in conjunction with the display .

Electric signals e.g. analog may be produced by microphone and fed to earpiece . Controller may receive instruction signals from input structure and control the operation of display . Audio signals may be transmitted and received by means of an antenna that may be connected through a radio interface or audio input interface such as microphone to codec configured to process signals under control of controller . Additionally multipoint sensing devices may be powered power source .

Mobile device may also include one or more user input devices other than input structure that are operatively coupled to the controller . Generally input devices are configured to transfer data commands and responses from the outside world into multipoint sensing devices.

Display device is generally configured to display a graphical user interface GUI that provides an easy to use visual interface between a user of the computing platform and the operating system or application s running on the mobile device.

Herein reference to a computer readable non transitory storage medium may include a semiconductor based or other integrated circuit IC such as for example a field programmable gate array FPGA or an application specific IC ASIC a hard disk an HDD a hybrid hard drive HHD an optical disc an optical disc drive ODD a magneto optical disc a magneto optical drive a floppy disk a floppy disk drive FDD magnetic tape a holographic storage medium a solid state drive SSD a RAM drive a SECURE DIGITAL card a SECURE DIGITAL drive another suitable computer readable non transitory storage medium or a suitable combination of these where appropriate. A computer readable non transitory storage medium may be volatile non volatile or a combination of volatile and non volatile where appropriate.

The present disclosure encompasses all changes substitutions variations alterations and modifications to the example embodiments herein that a person having ordinary skill in the art would comprehend. Similarly where appropriate the appended claims encompass all changes substitutions variations alterations and modifications to the example embodiments herein that a person having ordinary skill in the art would comprehend.

The foregoing description of the embodiments of the invention has been presented for the purpose of illustration it is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise forms disclosed. Persons skilled in the relevant art can appreciate that many modifications and variations are possible in light of the above disclosure. For example although the foregoing embodiments have been described in the context of a social network system it will apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art that the invention may be used with any electronic social network service and even if it is not provided through a website. The invention is thus not limited to any particular type of communication system network protocol format or application.

Some portions of this description describe the embodiments of the invention in terms of algorithms and symbolic representations of operations on information. These algorithmic descriptions and representations are commonly used by those skilled in the data processing arts to convey the substance of their work effectively to others skilled in the art. These operations while described functionally computationally or logically are understood to be implemented by computer programs or equivalent electrical circuits microcode or the like. Furthermore it has also proven convenient at times to refer to these arrangements of operations as modules without loss of generality. The described operations and their associated modules may be embodied in software firmware hardware or any combinations thereof.

Any of the steps operations or processes described herein may be performed or implemented with one or more hardware or software modules alone or in combination with other devices.

Embodiments of the invention may also relate to an apparatus for performing the operations herein. This apparatus may be specially constructed for the required purposes and or it may comprise a general purpose computing device selectively activated or reconfigured by a computer program stored in the computer. Such a computer program may be stored in a tangible computer readable storage medium or any type of media suitable for storing electronic instructions and coupled to a computer system bus. Furthermore any computing systems referred to in the specification may include a single processor or may be architectures employing multiple processor designs for increased computing capability.

While the foregoing processes and mechanisms can be implemented by a wide variety of physical systems and in a wide variety of network and computing environments the server or computing systems described below provide example computing system architectures for didactic rather than limiting purposes.

Finally the language used in the specification has been principally selected for readability and instructional purposes and it may not have been selected to delineate or circumscribe the inventive subject matter. It is therefore intended that the scope of the invention be limited not by this detailed description but rather by any claims that issue on an application based hereon. Accordingly the disclosure of the embodiments of the invention is intended to be illustrative but not limiting of the scope of the invention which is set forth in the following claims.

