---

title: Network session management based on contextual information
abstract: An access control module in an enterprise computing network receives contextual information of a first active network session at a first network endpoint and contextual information of a second active network session at a second network endpoint. The access control module is configured to evaluate the contextual information of one or more of the first or second network sessions based on one or more network policies to determine a policy action for enforcement on at least one of the first or second network endpoints.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09614874&OS=09614874&RS=09614874
owner: Cisco Technology, Inc.
number: 09614874
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20151104
---
The present application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 721 326 filed Dec. 20 2013 which is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entireties.

Enterprise computing networks are networks built by enterprises e.g. businesses universities etc. that enable users to share computing resources. Traditionally users within the enterprise premises e.g. buildings offices production sites etc. access the enterprise computing network via network endpoints terminals e.g. desktop computers or laptop computers that are connected to the network through a physical network connection. Often the enterprise computing networks are configured to interconnect multiple premises so that the users at different locations can share the computer resources. Network access via network endpoints within an enterprise s premises is sometime referred to herein as local network access.

Many enterprise computing networks are now configured to allow users to remotely access the network. During remote network access the users access the network through network endpoints that are located at remote sites i.e. outside the enterprise premises or through network devices that are physically disconnected from the enterprise network. Remote sites may include for example a user s home or a public location that has Internet connectivity. A network endpoint that is physically disconnected from the enterprise network may include for example a computer or a mobile device e.g. tablet computer mobile phone personal digital assistant PDA etc. that is configured to connect to the network through a wireless connection. Network endpoints that are physically disconnected from the enterprise network may be used at remote locations or at times within the enterprise s physical premises.

An access control module in an enterprise computing network receives contextual information of a first active network session at a first network endpoint and contextual information of a second active network session at a second network endpoint. The access control module is configured to evaluate the contextual information of one or more of the first or second network sessions based on one or more network policies to determine a policy action for enforcement on at least one of the first or second network endpoints.

It is common for a user of an enterprise computing network to establish an active network session at a first network endpoint such as a computer and then to subsequently leave the endpoint unattended for a period of time. It is also common for users to have one or more mobile devices that are always on or are default connected network endpoints. That is the mobile devices are authenticated and connect to the enterprise computing network automatically when for example the users are in the office the device is powered on or when a network connection is available through a local area network LAN wide area network WAN etc. As such although a user will generally only use one network session at a time a user may be simultaneously associated with multiple active network sessions at different network endpoints thereby increasing the likelihood that an endpoint will be left unattended.

Traditionally when a user leaves unattended a network endpoint supporting an active network both the user and network administrators rely on the operating system OS of the endpoint to protect access to the network. That is conventional arrangements secure access to the active network session through mechanisms such as browser timeout browser logout OS screen saver lock user executed screen lock etc.

Often these conventional mechanisms are not consistently enforced across the network or may provide a significant window of opportunity during which access to the network session and the network resources may be compromised. This may be problematic in situations where there is a need to block access to for example healthcare finance and other sensitive network resources such as cloud applications and or data when the user is no longer at the network endpoint.

Techniques are presented herein to use contextual information data of concurrent network sessions to secure the network sessions in a consistent manner across an enterprise computing network. More particularly different network endpoints that each support active network sessions are used as probes to relay contextual information to a central policy control and session tracking system referred to herein as an access control device or module. The access control module evaluates the contextual information in view of one or more network security policies and determines a network security policy action for enforcement on one of the network endpoints.

Enterprise computing network is configured to allow local and remote network access to the network. That is a user may establish a network session from local network endpoints i.e. endpoints within the enterprise premises that are physically connected to the network or from remote endpoints i.e. endpoints that are located at remote sites or endpoints within the enterprise premises that are physically disconnected from the enterprise network . As used herein a network session comprises a connection of a network endpoint to the enterprise computing network that enables access to the network resources such as applications and or data storage . illustrates an example arrangement where five different endpoints are all used by a single user to establish network sessions for access to enterprise computing network .

In the example of the first network endpoint is a desktop computer that is located at the user s home . The desktop computer is a remote endpoint i.e. it is located outside of the enterprise s premises and is configured to establish a network session with the computing network through for example the Internet . The second network endpoint is a laptop computer that is used to access the enterprise computing network from a public location . The laptop computer is a remote endpoint comprising at least one wireless interface e.g. Wi Fi interface a 3rd generation 3G mobile telecommunications interface Bluetooth interface etc. that enables the laptop computer to establish a network session via for example a public wireless network and the Internet .

The third network endpoint is a desktop computer that is located within the enterprise s premises e.g. in the enterprise s office building . The desktop computer is a local endpoint that is physically connected to the enterprise computing network via for example network cables so that the desktop computer can establish a network session . The fourth network endpoint is a mobile phone that is used to access the enterprise computing network from within the enterprise premises . The mobile phone is a remote endpoint comprising at least one wireless interface that enables the mobile phone to establish a network session via for example a local wireless network provided within the enterprise premise . Similarly the fifth network endpoint is a tablet computer that is used to access the enterprise computing network from within the enterprise premises . The tablet computer is a remote endpoint comprising at least one wireless interface that enables the tablet computer to establish a network session via for example local wireless network provided within the enterprise premise .

As such illustrates one example having one local network endpoint desktop computer and four remote network endpoints desktop computer laptop computer mobile phone and tablet computer . It is to be appreciated that the network arrangement of is merely one example and that different network arrangements may be used in other examples.

In general network sessions are specific to a network endpoint. That is each network endpoint is configured to connect to the enterprise computing network to establish a single session and thereby allow a user to access the network resources applications and or data within the data storage . However it is to be appreciated that certain examples may include one or more virtual machines operable at a network endpoint. In such examples one physical device e.g. computer may support two or more network sessions where one session is directly established through the computer OS while the additional one or more sessions are established through a virtual desktop interface VDI application.

In the example of a user may have different active network sessions N established on the various network endpoints at the same time or at different times. For example a user may establish a first network session via desktop computer before leaving his her home . However the user may forget to terminate this network session before leaving for work so that the session remains active even though the user is no longer at home. Next the user may stop at a public location such as a coffee shop to work for some time before heading to the office. When the user starts to work at the public location the user may establish another network session via laptop computer . As such while at the public location the user may be associated with two different active network sessions one session established at desktop computer and one session established at laptop computer .

Continuing in the above example the user may finish working at the public location and head to the enterprise premises office . The user may terminate the network session at laptop computer before heading to the office . Once at the office the user may log into his her assigned desktop computer and establish another network session for access to network resources and or . Similarly the user may at the same time or at a different time establish further network sessions and via mobile phone and tablet computer respectively. In certain examples the mobile phone and or the tablet computer may be always on or default connected network endpoints that automatically establish a network session when for example the devices are powered on or when a network connection is available through a LAN WAN etc.

Although a user will generally only use one network session at a time the user may be simultaneously associated with multiple active network sessions at different network endpoints. As such is common for users to leave an active network session unattended for a period of time which may allow access to sensitive network resources and or provide an opportunity for a hacker or other malicious entity to access the network. In the example of access control module is configured to reduce or substantially eliminate the opportunities for access to sensitive applications and the network in general as a result of the use of concurrent active network sessions. More particularly access control module is a central policy control infrastructure that gathers real time contextual information from the network user and or devices to orchestrate coordinate enforcement of network policies with enterprise computing network .

Access control module is configured to monitor contextual information of each of the network sessions via access control agents . Since various different types of network endpoints may be used by a user to establish a network session for access to enterprise computing network an initial network access provisioning process may include download of the appropriate version of access control agent that is applicable to the specific network endpoint.

The contextual data detected and monitored by the access control agents may include in one example the location of the network endpoint. This location information may be general location information i.e. indicating that the network endpoint is at a user s home a public location or the office or the location information may indicate a specific location within such general locations i.e. indicating that the network endpoint is for example at the user s assigned workstation away from the assigned workstation at a cafeteria within the enterprise premises etc. . Additionally the contextual information may indicate physical movements of the network endpoint. As such access control module may use the location and or movement information as an indicator of where the user is located or where his her attention is focused.

Depending on the capabilities of the underlying hardware global positioning system GPS and or accelerometer data may be collected to indicate location or movement. In lieu of hardware location support the geographic location can be approximated by the access control module based on the point of network attachment e.g. the section of the floor with the wireless access point or switch port feed .

The contextual data may also include an indication of user activities on the network endpoint. In one example the indication of the user s activity includes an indication of the user s interactions with the network endpoint device interactions . Interaction may include mouse keyboard and screen touch events some of which are determined from hardware device universal serial bus USB port metrics. The indication of the user s activity may also include an indication of the use of certain applications such as email chat etc. by the user. In certain such examples a network endpoint s associated Netflow data can be used by the access control module to determine the use of an application. That is various applications when used on a network endpoint will emit network traffic flows from which the access control module can determine the usage of that application on the particular network endpoint. As such access control module may use these interactions or use of applications as an indicator of where i.e. on which network endpoint device the user is focused e.g. using his her mobile phone and not his her desktop computer .

In accordance with examples presented herein the network endpoints are associated with identity information such as a user name of the user Media Access Control MAC address of the network endpoint a certificate that uniquely identifies the user or network endpoint device identification of groups to which the user belongs network endpoint manufacturer information and or device type e.g. desktop laptop mobile phone etc. entitlement group of the user e.g. engineering department payroll department marketing department management etc. or the like. Any of these pieces of information may be contextual information that is provided to the access control module for evaluation.

In general the access control module is configured to track all of the sessions of a user to receive the above or other contextual data from access control agents on each of the network endpoints that support i.e. were used to establish an active network session. In the example of once the user enters the office and logs into his her desktop computer there may a total of four active network sessions of the user that are tracked by the access control module session supported by desktop computer session supported by desktop computer session supported by mobile phone and session supported by tablet computer . As such access control module receives contextual data from the access control agents embedded on each of the four network endpoints and .

Once the access control module receives the contextual information of one or more of the active sessions the access control module evaluates the contextual information based on or in view of one or more network policies. These network policies may be for example predetermined policies set by a network administrator. Based on the evaluation of the contextual information the access control module is configured to select determine one or more network policy actions for enforcement on at least one of the first or second network endpoints. The network policy action may be enforced on the various network endpoints by for example the access control agents in cooperation with the endpoint OS and or the endpoint hardware.

A number of different policy actions may be selected for enforcement on a network endpoint. In certain examples the access control module is configured to enforce via local hardware software support on a network device an adjustment to the access entitlement of a network endpoint. The entitlement adjustments may include for example temporarily terminating access to the entire enterprise computing network temporarily terminating access to network resources cloud temporarily changing the access control list to block access to specific address and port destinations such that applications can no longer reach certain portions of the network from that network endpoint temporarily changing the firewall network device to block the flow of traffic specific to the sensitive applications on the network endpoint based on their traffic type ports where the traffic flows and traffic signature temporarily have the network device tagging the packet sent by the network endpoint with a different security group tag so that packet conveying sensitive operation requests and data are blocked at the firewall network device gating the server that service the request etc.

In one example the access control module is configured to limit the number of active sessions of a user particularly when there is no activity with one or more sessions. In such embodiments the access control module may assign a session limit. When this limit is exceeded the access control module is configured to terminate at least one active session. The selection of which active session to terminate may occur in a number of different ways. For example the access control module may select the active session to terminate by evaluating the user s activity in the various active sessions. In one such example the access control module could terminate the session having the longest period without any user interactions. Alternatively in another example the access control module could terminate the session by evaluating the location of the various network endpoints associated with the sessions and terminating a session that is not at the same location as the user terminating a session that is in the least secure location etc.

In the example of the access control agent or another agent running on a network endpoint is configured to support authentications on the end user side e.g. prompts for username password as applicable to login the user on to the network. Additionally the enterprise computing network is configured to ensure that the users and or endpoints connecting to the network are authenticated e.g. via IEEE 802.1x and authorized with the appropriate access to resources on the network and network resources cloud . As noted a user may be associated with multiple devices and each of the devices will be authenticated on a per session basis and will be centrally visible and managed by access control module . That is because all of the network endpoints are authenticated to the network the access control module is aware of the user that is associated with each network endpoint.

The network authorizations may include security tags e.g. Security Group Tags SGTs and access control lists ACL that dictate the network addresses ports and traffic types originating from a user on a network endpoint may be permitted or denied access to at a packet flow granularity. For example a network device gating the network flow to a sensitive application in the cloud may be configured with security policies that allow only packets with a specific security tag while denying all others.

The techniques presented herein provide a new policy capability where a network administrator may establish policies that are enforced in a first network session based on information received in second network session. That is according to the techniques presented herein the context of one session may be monitored e.g. mobile phone on the move and used to take action in another session allowing a holistic approach to enforce network policies consistently across a computing network.

In accordance with examples presented herein a network administrator can design and implement various network policies for enforcement across multiple user devices and network sessions. is a flowchart of a method for the design and implementation of one example network policy namely a secure stock trading. For ease of illustration the method of will be described with reference to the arrangement of .

Method begins at where a user i.e. a trader enters the enterprise premises office and his her mobile phone authenticates to the enterprise computing network . In other words the mobile phone establishes a network session . At this point the access control module begins to monitor the contextual information of network session using an access control agent on the mobile phone .

Next at the trader sits down at his her desk and logs into the desktop computer and the desktop computer establishes a network session . The access control module begins to monitor the contextual information of network session using an access control agent on the desktop computer . For example the location of the desktop computer and the mobile phone are monitored through the point of network connection or with the help of the agents running on the devices using for example GPS hardware.

The desktop computer may be authenticated with a MAC address database and the trader is authenticated with a user directory service such as the Active Directory. Also at the desktop computer may be profiled as a trading console by profiling its hardware through gleaning of Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol DHCP traffic Link Layer Discovery Protocol LLDP traffic Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP traffic and or Network mapper NMAP scans. At this point the trader may for example launch a one or more low security applications browses to a one or more low security portals and runs a stock trading application that either utilizes network resources or is served from a trading application in the network resources cloud . A security tag of TraderAtConsole is assigned to the network traffic originating from the trader s desktop computer i.e. the trader s trading workstation .

In this example a stock trading policy is defined such that full trading access is available for traffic flow with the security tag TraderAtConsole bound for a trading application StockTradingApp in the network resources cloud . This policy further includes a second security tag of TraderLeavesConsole . The security policy is set such that any packets with the security tag TraderLeavesConsole that are bound for the StockTradingApp will be denied. The above tasks can be accomplished through the access control module . Additionally a network configuration is set such that the user is authenticated against the user directory service to determine whether he she is on the desktop computer i.e. the authorized trading console or on another device such as mobile phone . When multiple sessions are active both sessions are tracked by the access control module that can using contextual information determine that one device is a desktop computer and another device is a mobile device along with other information such as the device locations.

The stock trading policy is also defined such that if the mobile phone and desktop computer of the user are at different locations the security tag of any traffic sent to the StockTradingApp will be set to TraderLeavesConsole. If the mobile phone and the desktop computer are at the same location then the security tag of any traffic sent to the StockTradingApp will be set to TraderAtConsole. In other words the network policy is set such that if received contextual data indicates that the mobile phone and desktop computer of the user are at different locations the access control module will recognize that at that time any traffic sent to the StockTradingApp will be originating from the mobile phone and not the desktop computer . Conversely if the received contextual data indicates that the mobile phone and desktop computer of the user are at the same locations then the access control module can infer that any traffic sent to the StockTradingApp will be originating from the authorized desktop computer .

In these examples the access control module is configured to support the definition of a policy in which an endpoint evaluation process occurs when the location of the mobile phone changes. The access control module will also be enhanced to perform for example a Remote Authentication Dial In User Service RADIUS Change of Authorization so that the network session on the desktop computer is associated with the proper security tag.

At the trader leaves the desk with his her mobile phone while still logged into the desktop computer . The movement and or location of the mobile phone is monitored by the access control module through a point of network connection roaming determination or with the help of the agent running on the mobile phone i.e. using GPS hardware as the move occurs. The access control module receives an update of the new location from the network infrastructure e.g. via a RADIUS accounting update or from the agent on the mobile phone using an Application Programming Interface API .

At the access control module uses received contextual information from sessions and to compare the location of the desktop computer and the location of the mobile phone . Because the trader has left his her workstation the access control module determines that the locations of the two devices are different. As such at the access control module assigns the security tag TraderLeavesConsole to the network session established at desktop computer . The access control module also sends a RADIUS change of authentication to one or more of the network devices N to re authenticate the network session so that the new security tag will take effect. This re authentication occurs on the network device infrastructure and is transparent to the end user who will not experience any impact other than that intended by the change of the security tag. There are no connectivity changes on the desktop computer . However with the TraderLeavesConsole security tag access to the trading application on the applications cloud will be denied according to the content of the security policy. Other applications on the desktop computer and the login session which are not blocked by the particular security policy will not be affected.

The policy action of blocking access to the trading application which is triggered by the trader moving to a different location is expected to take effect more promptly and accurately than the traditional technique of relying on screen timeout locks. The operations presented herein are also more precise in scope than the traditional way of using login session timeout which terminates the entire session rather than blocking access to specific sensitive applications. In certain examples at the option of the administrator it is also possible to close out the session on the desktop computer if so desired with an authorization that disconnects the port rather than modifying the security tag.

At the trader comes back to the desktop computer and the access control module determines that the location area of the mobile phone matches the location of the desktop computer . As such at the access control module assigns the security tag TraderAtConsole to session on the desktop computer . The access control module also sends a RADIUS change of authorization to one or more of the network devices N to re authenticate the session so the new security tag will take effect. As noted above this re authentication occurs on the network device infrastructure and is transparent to the end user and there are no connectivity changes on the desktop computer except that access to the trading application will again be allowed.

In variations of this stock trading policy example different contextual data may be used to determine when the trader is no longer at desktop computer . For example rather than using the location of the mobile phone an administrator may configure an endpoint evaluation to occur when the trader emails chats on the mobile phone . More specifically various applications when used on a network endpoint will generate emit network traffic flows from which the access control module can determine the usage of that application on the particular network endpoint. As such access control module may use these applications as an indicator of where the trader is focused e.g. using his her mobile phone and not his her desktop computer and accordingly change the security tag associated with session to block allow access to trading application or to enforce other policy actions.

In summary multiple network sessions are established and the context of one network session is correlated with another network session for enforcement of a policy action in that session. In other words the techniques presented herein use the contextual information of related network sessions at different network endpoints associated with the same user to enforce network policies.

As shown access control module comprises a plurality of network interface ports N a command line interface CLI a processor and a memory that includes access control logic . The access control logic comprises monitoring sub logic evaluation sub logic and enforcement sub logic .

The network interface ports N provide connections between the access control module and one or more of the network devices N for sending receiving traffic. Network interface ports N may be for example Ethernet ports implemented in one or more application specific integrated circuits ASICs . The CLI is a mechanism by which commands can be delivered to the access control module in the form of successive lines of text command lines . As such the CLI may be used by the network administrator to establish configure network policies as described above for enforcement on network endpoints. It should be appreciated that use of the CLI is merely an example and that other mechanisms may also or alternatively be provided for a network administrator to use in configuring network policies on the access control module .

Memory may comprise read only memory ROM random access memory RAM magnetic disk storage media devices optical storage media devices flash memory devices electrical optical or other physical tangible memory storage devices. The processor is for example a microprocessor or microcontroller that executes instructions for the access control logic . Thus in general the memory may comprise one or more tangible non transitory computer readable storage media e.g. a memory device encoded with software comprising computer executable instructions and when the software is executed by the processor it is operable to perform the access control operations described herein. That is in accordance with examples presented herein monitoring sub logic may be executed to deploy agents on network endpoints and to monitor the agents to receive contextual information about active network sessions. The evaluation sub logic may be executed to evaluate contextual information in view of any network policies and to determine a policy action for enforcement on a network endpoint. Finally enforcement sub logic may be executed to transmit a notification to the software hardware on the network endpoint e.g. an access control agent of the policy action to be enforced.

User interface may take many different forms and may include for example a keypad keyboard mouse touchscreen display screen etc. Memory may comprise ROM RAM magnetic disk storage media devices optical storage media devices flash memory devices electrical optical or other physical tangible memory storage devices. The processor is for example a microprocessor or microcontroller that executes instructions for the access control agent logic and the OS . Thus in general the memory may comprise one or more tangible computer readable storage media e.g. a memory device encoded with software comprising computer executable instructions and when the software is executed by the processor it is operable to perform the operations described herein in connection with access control agents .

The access control techniques presented herein provide a policy enforcement method where the contextual information of different network sessions is gathered. The contextual information of one network session is used to trigger the re evaluation of policy decisions and possibly change the authorization of another network session. The access control techniques presented herein provide a unified and holistic to management of different network sessions of a user for consistent enforcement of policies across a computing network.

