---

title: Multi-dimensional data visualization, navigation, and menu systems
abstract: Described herein are systems, media, and methods for providing an application that receives information for a plurality of items and utilizes the information to generate a navigable multi-dimensional list of items, wherein the list of items is navigable by at least three navigation modes comprising touch scroll and rotation, joystick scroll and rotation, gyroscopic scroll and rotation. As such, the application allows a user to efficiently and effectively visualize, navigate, create, and share large amounts of data.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09426193&OS=09426193&RS=09426193
owner: GRAVITYNAV, INC.
number: 09426193
owner_city: San Francisco
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150605
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Application Ser. No. 62 063 871 filed Oct. 14 2014 which is herein incorporated by reference in its entirety.

With the increasing availability of electronic communication and mobile computing users need more efficient mechanisms to visualize navigate create and share large amounts of visual information.

Described herein are data visualization applications for viewing and navigating items on a computer device or cloud based service. In some embodiments the data is arranged as a multi dimensionally stacked vertical list moving within a multi dimensional environment. In particular embodiments the data is arranged as a three dimensionally stacked vertical list moving within a three dimensional environment. The list is optionally navigated using touch joystick and or gyroscopically controlled gestures. In further embodiments the list is optionally navigated using eye and or head tracking. The navigation includes moving the list up and down y axis left and right x axis and forward and back z axis . The navigation gestures simultaneously control yaw pitch and roll of the list.

The systems media and methods disclosed herein provide an intuitive multi dimensional way to access features and functions within a contained section of the screen with limited need for extended finger dexterity. The menu system efficiently displays multiple selections within a contained space that would normally require more screen real estate to display similar quantities of menu items. The contained menu system also reduces the need for two handed operation or phone in hand repositioning i.e. resting the phones against your stomach to reposition hand position or tossing the phone in your hand .

By designing the menus with multi dimensional facets users will have a spatial context awareness of how the menu items are being organized. Color coding will also allow the user contextual based organizational layouts for quickly accessing features and functions by visually grouping items. Accordingly the systems media and methods disclosed herein provide a solution for efficient and dynamic display systems for navigating through vast amounts of visual information including files and folders with intuitive gesture based controls.

The data within the list is optionally sourced from a local device as well incorporating the option to source data from one or more web based and cloud services. The data is displayed in a unified list for viewing. The data is displayed based on user selected criteria to help navigate find and collect data. The subject matter described herein provides a dynamic engaging and entertaining way to search save and share lists of information with others.

In one aspect disclosed herein are computer implemented system comprising a processing device comprising a gyroscope an operating system configured to perform executable instructions and a memory a computer program including instructions executable by the digital processing device to create an application comprising a software module configured to receive information for a plurality of items a software module configured to utilize the information to generate a navigable multi dimensional list of items the items in the list of items arranged in the X axis and Y axis based on a sorting factor and the items in the list of items further arranged in the Z axis provided that the list of items is navigable by at least three navigation modes comprising touch scroll and rotation joystick scroll and rotation gyroscopic scroll and rotation wherein in response to a first user interaction the Z axis position of a selected item is arranged to the front and the list of items presents an isolated enlarged version of the selected item wherein in response to a second user interaction the list of items presents item details and item options for the selected item and a software module configured to present a joystick graphical user interface element the joystick graphical user interface element being modal with a first mode wherein the joystick allows the user to display an administrative menu and a second mode wherein the joystick allows the user to navigate the list of items by scrolling through the list in the y axis and to manipulate the list itself with yaw pitch and roll controls. In some embodiments the items comprise document files media files applications icons links bookmarks communications e.g. text messages social media posts and or comments blog posts and or comments microblog posts and or comments calls voice mails emails and the like contacts or folders archives or compilations of the same. In further embodiments the media files comprise photos videos sound files music files live video streams live audio streams or e books. In some embodiments the sorting factor is alphabet chronology location people file type color or other metadata. In some embodiments the items in the list of items are randomly arranged in the Z axis. In other embodiments the items in the list of items are hierarchically arranged in the Z axis. In further embodiments the items in the list of items are hierarchically arranged in the Z axis based on the sorting factor or another factor. In some embodiments the software module configured to receive information for a plurality of items presents an interface allowing the user to select one or more sources for the items or a list of items. In further embodiments the source is the local storage of the processing device. In other embodiments the source is a remote service. In further embodiments the remote service is a cloud computing based service. In various embodiments the remote service is Facebook Instagram Twitter Vine Pinterest Tumblr LinkedIn Dropbox Box Flickr Google Drive iCloud Youtube Vimeo SkyDrive Mega Hightail Imgur Photobucket Picasa Reddit 4Chan GitHub WhatsApp Viber Line WeChat Paper FlipBoard Gmail Yahoo Mail iCloud Mail Facebook Messenger Outlook Aol Mail Mail.com Uber Lyft or Ello. In some embodiments the touch scroll and rotation comprises the user interacting with a touchscreen of processing device through drag and flick gestures applied to the list of items to vertically scroll the list and horizontally rotate the list. In some embodiments the joystick scroll and rotation comprises the user interacting with a touchscreen of processing device to manipulate a graphical joystick element to vertically scroll the list and horizontally rotate the list s rotational yaw pitch and roll in multi dimensional space revealing surfaces of geometric menus as well as gyroscope controls. In some embodiments the gyroscopic scroll and rotation comprises the user manually rotating the processing device to vertically scroll the list and manipulate the list in yaw pitch and roll orientations. In other embodiments the navigation modes further comprise eye tracking scroll and rotation wherein the user vertically scrolls the list and horizontally rotates the list via eye movements. In yet other embodiments the navigation modes further comprise head tracking scroll and rotation wherein the user vertically scrolls the list and horizontally rotates the list via head movements. In yet other embodiments the navigation modes further comprise hand gesture tracking scroll and rotation wherein the user vertically scrolls the list and horizontally rotates the list via hand gestures. In some embodiments the navigation modes provide a parallaxed dimensional display of the elements within the list. In some embodiments the item options comprise share delete add to a secondary list apply a visual effect or look and apply audio. In some embodiments the item details comprise text and data associated with the item. In further embodiments the item details comprise metadata. In still further embodiments the metadata comprises EXIF data. In some embodiments the first user interaction is selected from the group consisting of tap double tap long hold push pull flick swipe on an item in the list of items and combinations thereof. In some embodiments the second user interaction is selected from the group consisting of a gyro gesture e.g. gyroscopically detected yaw pitch and or roll a touchscreen gesture and combinations thereof. In some embodiments the administrative menu is displayed on a three dimensional geometric object. In other embodiments the administrative menu is displayed on a plurality of three dimensional objects the objects manipulable in three dimensions as a single unit. In some embodiments the joystick in the second mode further allows the user to reset the calibration point of the gyroscope of the processing device. In some embodiments the processing device is a mobile device and the application is a mobile application. In some embodiments the application further comprises a software module configured to allow a user to select one or more items from the list of items and to associate the selected items to form a collection. In further embodiments the collection is collaborative and is shared with at least one other user who can edit the collection. In still further embodiments the application further comprises a software module configured to export a video file comprising a slideshow or animation of the collection. In some embodiments the application further comprises a software module configured to export a video file comprising screen capture video of a user interacting with the application. In some embodiments the navigable multi dimensional list of items is user configurable to provide audio or haptic user feedback.

In another aspect disclosed herein are non transitory computer readable storage media encoded with a computer program including instructions executable by a processor to create an application comprising a software module configured to receive information for a plurality of items a software module configured to utilize the information to generate a navigable multi dimensional list of items the items in the list of items arranged in the X axis and Y axis based on a sorting factor and the items in the list of items further arranged in the Z axis provided that the list of items is navigable by at least three navigation modes comprising touch scroll and rotation joystick scroll and rotation gyroscopic scroll and rotation wherein in response to a first user interaction the Z axis position of a selected item is arranged to the front and the list of items presents an isolated enlarged version of the selected item wherein in response to a second user interaction the list of items presents item details and item options for the selected item and a software module configured to present a joystick graphical user interface element the joystick graphical user interface element being modal with a first mode wherein the joystick allows the user to display an administrative menu and a second mode wherein the joystick allows the user to navigate the list of items with yaw pitch and roll controls. In some embodiments the items comprise document files media files applications icons links bookmarks communications e.g. text messages social media posts and or comments blog posts and or comments microblog posts and or comments calls voice mails emails and the like contacts or folders archives or compilations of the same. In further embodiments the media files comprise photos videos sound files music files live video streams live audio streams or e books. In some embodiments the sorting factor is alphabet chronology location people file type color or other metadata. In some embodiments the items in the list of items are randomly arranged in the Z axis. In other embodiments the items in the list of items are hierarchically arranged in the Z axis. In further embodiments the items in the list of items are hierarchically arranged in the Z axis based on the sorting factor or another factor. In some embodiments the software module configured to receive information for a plurality of items presents an interface allowing the user to select one or more sources for the items or a list of items. In further embodiments the source is the local storage of the processing device. In other embodiments the source is a remote service. In further embodiments the remote service is a cloud computing based service. In various embodiments the remote service is Facebook Instagram Twitter Vine Pinterest Tumblr LinkedIn Dropbox Box Flickr Google Drive iCloud Youtube Vimeo SkyDrive Mega Hightail Imgur Photobucket Picasa Reddit 4Chan GitHub WhatsApp Viber Line WeChat Paper FlipBoard Gmail Yahoo Mail iCloud Mail Facebook Messenger Outlook Aol Mail Mail.com Uber Lyft or Ello. In some embodiments the touch scroll and rotation comprises the user interacting with a touchscreen of processing device through drag and flick gestures applied to the list of items to vertically scroll the list and horizontally rotate the list. In some embodiments the joystick scroll and rotation comprises the user interacting with a touchscreen of processing device to manipulate a graphical joystick element to vertically scroll the list and horizontally rotate the list. In some embodiments the gyroscopic scroll and rotation comprises the user manually rotating the processing device to vertically scroll the list and manipulate the list in yaw pitch and roll orientations. In other embodiments the navigation modes further comprise eye tracking scroll and rotation wherein the user vertically scrolls the list and horizontally rotates the list via eye movements. In yet other embodiments the navigation modes further comprise head tracking scroll and rotation wherein the user vertically scrolls the list and horizontally rotates the list via head movements. In yet other embodiments the navigation modes further comprise hand gesture tracking scroll and rotation wherein the user vertically scrolls the list and horizontally rotates the list via hand gestures. In some embodiments the navigation modes provide a parallaxed dimensional display of the elements within the list. In some embodiments the item options comprise share delete add to a secondary list apply a visual effect or look and apply audio. In some embodiments the item details comprise text and data associated with the item. In further embodiments the item details comprise metadata. In still further embodiments the metadata comprises EXIF data. In some embodiments the first user interaction is selected from the group consisting of tap double tap long hold push pull flick swipe on an item in the list of items and combinations thereof. In some embodiments the second user interaction is selected from the group consisting of a gyro gesture e.g. gyroscopically detected yaw pitch and or roll a touchscreen gesture and combinations thereof. In some embodiments the administrative menu is displayed on a multi dimensional geometric object such as a three dimensional object. In other embodiments the administrative menu is displayed on a plurality of multi dimensional objects the objects manipulable in multiple dimensions as a single unit. In some embodiments the joystick in the second mode further allows the user to reset the calibration point of the gyroscope of the processing device. In some embodiments the processing device is a mobile device and the application is a mobile application. In some embodiments the application further comprises a software module configured to allow a user to select one or more items from the list of items and to associate the selected items to form a collection. In further embodiments the collection is collaborative and is shared with at least one other user who can edit the collection. In still further embodiments the application further comprises a software module configured to export a video file comprising a slideshow or animation of the collection with or without audio. In some embodiments the application further comprises a software module configured to export a video file comprising screen capture video of a user interacting with the application. In some embodiments the navigable multi dimensional list of items is user configurable to provide audio or haptic user feedback.

In another aspect disclosed herein are computer implemented methods for visualizing and navigating a menu system comprising receiving by a computer information for a plurality of items utilizing by the computer the information to generate a navigable multi dimensional list of items the items in the list of items arranged in the X axis and Y axis based on a sorting factor and the items in the list of items further arranged in the Z axis provided that the list of items is navigable by at least three navigation modes comprising touch scroll and rotation joystick scroll and rotation gyroscopic scroll and rotation presenting by the computer in response to a first user interaction an isolated enlarged version of a selected item wherein the Z axis position of the selected item is arranged to the front of the list of items presenting by the computer in response to a second user interaction item details and item options for the selected item and presenting by the computer a joystick graphical user interface element the joystick graphical user interface element being modal with a first mode wherein the joystick allows the user to display an administrative menu and a second mode wherein the joystick allows the user to navigate the list of items with yaw pitch and roll controls. In some embodiments the items comprise document files media files applications icons links bookmarks communications e.g. text messages social media posts and or comments blog posts and or comments microblog posts and or comments calls voice mails emails and the like contacts or folders archives or compilations of the same. In further embodiments the media files comprise photos videos sound files music files live video streams live audio streams or e books. In some embodiments the sorting factor is alphabet chronology location people file type color or other metadata. In some embodiments the items in the list of items are randomly arranged in the Z axis. In other embodiments the items in the list of items are hierarchically arranged in the Z axis. In further embodiments the items in the list of items are hierarchically arranged in the Z axis based on the sorting factor or another factor. In some embodiments the software module configured to receive information for a plurality of items presents an interface allowing the user to select one or more sources for the items or a list of items. In further embodiments the source is the local storage of the processing device. In other embodiments the source is a remote service. In further embodiments the remote service is a cloud computing based service. In various embodiments the remote service is Facebook Instagram Twitter Vine Pinterest Tumblr LinkedIn Dropbox Box Flickr Google Drive iCloud Youtube Vimeo SkyDrive Mega Hightail Imgur Photobucket Picasa Reddit 4Chan GitHub WhatsApp Viber Line WeChat Paper FlipBoard Gmail Yahoo Mail iCloud Mail Facebook Messenger Outlook Aol Mail Mail.com Uber Lyft or Ello. In some embodiments the touch scroll and rotation comprises the user interacting with a touchscreen of processing device through drag and flick gestures applied to the list of items to vertically scroll the list and horizontally rotate the list. In some embodiments the joystick scroll and rotation comprises the user interacting with a touchscreen of processing device to manipulate a graphical joystick element to vertically scroll the list and horizontally rotate the list. In some embodiments the gyroscopic scroll and rotation comprises the user manually rotating the processing device to vertically scroll the list and manipulate the list in yaw pitch and roll orientations. In other embodiments the navigation modes further comprise eye tracking scroll and rotation wherein the user vertically scrolls the list and horizontally rotates the list via eye movements. In yet other embodiments the navigation modes further comprise head tracking scroll and rotation wherein the user vertically scrolls the list and horizontally rotates the list via head movements. In yet other embodiments the navigation modes further comprise hand gesture tracking scroll and rotation wherein the user vertically scrolls the list and horizontally rotates the list via hand gestures. In some embodiments the navigation modes provide a parallaxed dimensional display of the elements within the list. In some embodiments the item options comprise share delete add to a secondary list apply a visual effect or look and apply audio. In some embodiments the item details comprise text and data associated with the item. In further embodiments the item details comprise metadata. In still further embodiments the metadata comprises EXIF data. In some embodiments the first user interaction is selected from the group consisting of tap double tap long hold push pull flick swipe on an item in the list of items and combinations thereof. In some embodiments the second user interaction is selected from the group consisting of a gyro gesture e.g. gyroscopically detected yaw pitch and or roll a touchscreen gesture and combinations thereof. In some embodiments the administrative menu is displayed on a three dimensional geometric object. In other embodiments the administrative menu is displayed on a plurality of three dimensional objects the objects manipulable in three dimensions as a single unit. In some embodiments the joystick in the second mode further allows the user to reset the calibration point of the gyroscope of the processing device. In some embodiments the processing device is a mobile device and the application is a mobile application. In some embodiments the application further comprises a software module configured to allow a user to select one or more items from the list of items and to associate the selected items to form a collection. In further embodiments the collection is collaborative and is shared with at least one other user who can edit the collection. In still further embodiments the application further comprises a software module configured to export a video file comprising a slideshow or animation of the collection. In some embodiments the application further comprises a software module configured to export a video file comprising screen capture video of a user interacting with the application. In some embodiments the navigable multi dimensional list of items is user configurable to provide audio or haptic user feedback.

Described herein in certain embodiments are computer implemented system comprising a processing device comprising a gyroscope an operating system configured to perform executable instructions and a memory a computer program including instructions executable by the digital processing device to create an application comprising a software module configured to receive information for a plurality of items a software module configured to utilize the information to generate a navigable multi dimensional list of items the items in the list of items arranged in the X axis and Y axis based on a sorting factor and the items in the list of items further arranged in the Z axis provided that the list of items is navigable by at least three navigation modes comprising touch scroll and rotation joystick scroll and rotation gyroscopic scroll and rotation wherein in response to a first user interaction the Z axis position of a selected item is arranged to the front and the list of items presents an isolated enlarged version of the selected item wherein in response to a second user interaction the list of items presents item details and item options for the selected item and a software module configured to present a joystick graphical user interface element the joystick graphical user interface element being modal with a first mode wherein the joystick allows the user to display an administrative menu and a second mode wherein the joystick allows the user to navigate the list of items with yaw pitch and roll controls.

Also described herein in certain embodiments are non transitory computer readable storage media encoded with a computer program including instructions executable by a processor to create an application comprising a software module configured to receive information for a plurality of items a software module configured to utilize the information to generate a navigable multi dimensional list of items the items in the list of items arranged in the X axis and Y axis based on a sorting factor and the items in the list of items further arranged in the Z axis provided that the list of items is navigable by at least three navigation modes comprising touch scroll and rotation joystick scroll and rotation gyroscopic scroll and rotation wherein in response to a first user interaction the Z axis position of a selected item is arranged to the front and the list of items presents an isolated enlarged version of the selected item wherein in response to a second user interaction the list of items presents item details and item options for the selected item and a software module configured to present a joystick graphical user interface element the joystick graphical user interface element being modal with a first mode wherein the joystick allows the user to display an administrative menu and a second mode wherein the joystick allows the user to navigate the list of items with yaw pitch and roll controls.

Also described herein in certain embodiments are computer implemented methods for visualizing and navigating a menu system comprising receiving by a computer information for a plurality of items utilizing by the computer the information to generate a navigable multi dimensional list of items the items in the list of items arranged in the X axis and Y axis based on a sorting factor and the items in the list of items further arranged in the Z axis provided that the list of items is navigable by at least three navigation modes comprising touch scroll and rotation joystick scroll and rotation gyroscopic scroll and rotation presenting by the computer in response to a first user interaction an isolated enlarged version of a selected item wherein the Z axis position of the selected item is arranged to the front of the list of items presenting by the computer in response to a second user interaction item details and item options for the selected item and presenting by the computer a joystick graphical user interface element the joystick graphical user interface element being modal with a first mode wherein the joystick allows the user to display an administrative menu and a second mode wherein the joystick allows the user to navigate the list of items with yaw pitch and roll controls.

Unless otherwise defined all technical terms used herein have the same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which this invention belongs. As used in this specification and the appended claims the singular forms a an and the include plural references unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. Any reference to or herein is intended to encompass and or unless otherwise stated.

As used herein in some embodiments parallaxed refers to a displacement or difference in the apparent position of an object viewed along two different lines of sight and is measured by the angle or semi angle of inclination between those two lines. For example as a viewpoint moves side to side objects in the distance appear to move slower than the objects close to the viewpoint.

As used herein in some embodiments joystick refers to a user input control capable of receiving user input indicating a direction and a distance from a fixed point.

In some embodiments the systems media and methods disclosed herein include plurality of items which are presented in an interface allowing visualization and navigation of the items via one of a plurality of navigational modes. Many types of items are suitable. In some embodiments suitable items include files folders archives and compilations including combinations thereof. In further embodiments suitable items include text documents e books audio e.g. sound files music files etc. images e.g. photographs illustrations etc. videos multimedia e.g. interactive elements games etc. streams e.g. live video streams live audio streams etc. and applications including combinations thereof. In some embodiments suitable items include electronic communications such as text messages social media posts and or comments blog posts and or comments microblog posts and or comments calls and voice mails and emails including combinations thereof. In some embodiments suitable items include links bookmarks and websites including combinations thereof. In some embodiments suitable items include contacts.

Many text formats are suitable including by way of non limiting examples Rich Text Format RTF TXT ASCII UTF 8 and HTML formatted text. Many document formats are suitable including by way of non limiting examples Microsoft Office Word Microsoft Office PowerPoint Microsoft Office Excel DocBook HTML OpenDocument PalmDoc Portable Document Format PDF Rich Text Format RTF and WordPerfect.

Many e book formats are suitable including by way of non limiting examples plain text hypertext markup language HTML Amazon Kindle Open Electronic Package TomeRaider Arghos Diffusion Flip Books ANSI NISO Z39.86 DAISY FictionBook Text Encoding Initiative Plucker Compressed HM Portable Document Format PostScript DjVu Microsoft LIT eReader Desktop Author Newton eBook Founder Electronics Libris Mobipocket EPUB Broadband eBooks BBeB SSReader TealDoc IEC 62448 and Comic Book Archive file. Suitable e books include those formatted for viewing on by way of non limiting examples Apple iPad Amazon Kindle Barnes Noble Nook Sony Reader iRex iLiad the Jinke Hanlin eReader Bookeen CyBook Endless Ideas BeBook and the Kobo eReader.

Many audio formats are suitable including by way of non limiting examples MP3 WAV AIFF AU Apple Lossless MPEG 4 Windows Media Vorbis AAC and Real Audio .

Many raster image formats are suitable including by way of non limiting examples Joint Photographic Experts Group JPEG JPEG 2000 Exchangeable image file format EXIF Tagged Image File Format TIFF RAW Portable Network Graphics PNG Graphics Interchange Format GIF Windows bitmap BMP portable pixmap PPM portable graymap PGM portable bitmap file format PBM wireless bitmap WBMP and WebP. In some embodiments images are uncompressed e.g. RAW format . In other embodiments images are compressed. Both lossy and lossless image CODECs are suitable. Many vector image formats are suitable including by way of non limiting examples CGM and SWF. Both two dimensional and three dimensional vector images are suitable.

Many video formats are suitable including by way of non limiting examples Windows Media Video WMV Windows Media Motion Picture Experts Group MPEG Audio Video Interleave AVI Apple QuickTime RealMedia Flash Video Motion JPEG M JPEG WebM Advanced Video Coding High Definition AVCHD Ogg Video Vob MV4 MP4 3GPP 3GPP2 and the like. In some embodiments video is uncompressed e.g. RAW format . In other embodiments video is compressed. Both lossy and lossless video CODECs are suitable including by way of non limiting examples DivX Cineform Cinepak Dirac DV FFV1 H.263 H.264 H.264 lossless JPEG 2000 MPEG 1 MPEG 2 MPEG 4 On2 Technologies VPS VP6 VP7 and VP8 RealVideo Snow lossless Sorenson Video Theora and Windows Media Video WMV .

In some embodiments image and or video media are standard definition. In other embodiments image and or video media are high definition or ultra high definition. In further embodiments a high definition image or video frame includes at least about 1280 about 720 pixels or at least about 1920 about 1080 pixels. In further embodiments ultra high definition video is 4K UHD 2160 p 8K UHD 4320 p or higher resolution. In some embodiments video media are 360 degree video.

Many multimedia formats are suitable including by way of non limiting examples Adobe Flash Apple QuickTime Microsoft Silverlight Java HTML 5 XHTML 5 and Unity .

In some embodiments the systems media and methods disclosed herein include a navigable list of items. In further embodiments the items are electronic files and or folders or representations thereof. As described herein many types of electronic items are suitable. In various embodiments the list of items is used to browse navigate and select individual items in the list of items. Exemplary contemplated uses include previewing viewing and browsing visual media such as photographs recorded videos and video streams previewing listening and browsing audio media such as recorded sound files recorded songs and audio streams browsing and selecting applications in an operating environment viewing and selecting options in an application environment browsing contacts browsing communications and the like.

In some embodiments the list of items is a two dimensional list of items. In cases utilizing a two dimensional list the items are arranged in the X and Y axes relative to each other for example in a linear list configuration or an X and Y coordinate grid configuration. In further embodiments a two dimensional list of items is navigable by a user traversing the items in the X and Y coordinates via any of the navigation modes described herein.

In some embodiments the list of items is a three dimensional list of items. In cases utilizing a three dimensional list the items are arranged in the X Y and Z axes relative to each other for example in a three dimensional array configuration. In further embodiments a three dimensional list of items is navigable by a user traversing the items in the X and Y coordinates and manipulating the list itself in multi dimensional space via any of the navigation modes described herein.

In some embodiments the items in the list of items are arranged relative to each other randomly. In other embodiments the items in the list of items are arranged relative to each other based at least in part on a sorting factor. In various embodiments the items are arranged in the X Y and or Z axis based at least in part on a sorting factor. Suitable sorting factors include characteristics of the item. For example suitable item based sorting factors include alphabetical e.g. based on file name author etc. chronology e.g. based on creation date last modification date etc. location e.g. location created location last modified etc. or file type. Suitable sorting factors also include metadata associated with the item. Suitable sorting factors also include characteristics of the subject matter of the item. For example suitable subject matter based sorting factors include alphabetical chronology location color and people e.g. individuals appearing in the subject matter . Suitable sorting factors also include preferences and or behaviors of the user. For example suitable user based sorting factors include preference favorite status date last selected number of times selected etc.

In some embodiments wherein the items are playable electronic items or representations thereof such as video files video streams audio files audio streams animations multimedia interactive elements and the like the items include a preview. In further embodiments the previews are gyroscopically controlled. For example in a particular embodiment pitching or rolling the device plays a video forward or backwards at variable speeds depending on the degree of rotation of the device.

Referring to in a particular embodiment a list of items is a two dimensional list of photograph files. In this embodiment the photographs are optionally arranged horizontally and vertically relative to each other into a grid configuration. Further in this embodiment the photographs are displayed in the list as thumbnail preview representations.

Referring to in a particular embodiment a list of items is a three dimensional list of photograph files. In this embodiment the photographs are optionally arranged horizontally vertically and in Z space relative to each other into an array configuration. Further in this embodiment the photographs are displayed in the list as thumbnail preview representations.

Referring to in a particular embodiment a two dimensional list of items is processed to render a three dimensional list of items. In the items are arranged relative to each other in the X and Y axes to create a two dimensional grid. In the items are scaled up by 20 . In the items are randomized on the Z axis to create a three dimensional array configuration. Alternatively the items are arranged hierarchically on the Z axis to create a three dimensional array configuration.

Referring to in a particular embodiment a user manipulates a three dimensional list of photographs using the gyroscopic navigation mode described herein to pitch the list away from the user s vantage point at the top and toward the user s vantage point at the bottom. In this embodiment the user applies the gyroscopic navigation mode described herein to scroll through the list of items.

Referring to in a particular embodiment a user manipulates a three dimensional list of photographs using the gyroscopic navigation mode described herein to pitch the list away from the user s vantage point at the bottom and toward the user s vantage point at the top. In this embodiment the user applies the gyroscopic navigation mode described herein to scroll through the list of items.

Referring to in a particular embodiment a user manipulates a three dimensional list of photographs using the joystick navigation mode described herein to pitch and roll the list clockwise relative to the user s vantage point and to scroll through the list of items.

Referring to in a particular embodiment a user selects a particular item from a list of items which triggers the application to present an isolated enlarged version of the selected item.

Referring to in a particular embodiment where a user has selected an item interacting with the selected item e.g. by horizontal swiping or tapping a touchscreen by gyroscopically controlled navigation etc. triggers the application to scroll through the underlying list of items in the isolated enlarged view.

In some embodiments the systems media and methods disclosed herein include a plurality of navigation modes. In further embodiments one or more navigation modes are used to navigate the items in the list of items. In still further embodiments one or more navigation modes are used to manipulate the list of items itself. In still further embodiments one or more navigation modes are used to select one or more items from the list of items. In still further embodiments one or more navigation modes are used to activate or manipulate the item details and or item options. In still further embodiments one or more navigation modes are used to activate or manipulate the administrative menu. In various embodiments the systems media and methods disclosed herein include 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 or more navigation modes. A distinguishing feature of the subject matter described herein is the availability of at least three navigation modes. A variety of navigation modes are suitable.

In some embodiments the systems media and methods disclosed herein include a touch scroll and rotation navigation mode. In further embodiments a touch navigation mode allows a user to navigate e.g. browse traverse select etc. the items in the navigable list of items. In still further embodiments in a touch navigation mode a user optionally swipes or flicks on the list using a touchscreen of the device to navigate. In some embodiments a user optionally swipes or flicks vertically to scroll the list of items. In further embodiments where the menu is in a three dimensional configuration the user optionally swipes or flicks horizontally or taps double taps or taps and holds to rotate the menu itself. In some embodiments where a gravity option is active the menu scrolls and or rotates with the configured inertial effects.

In some embodiments the systems media and methods disclosed herein include a joystick scroll and rotation navigation mode. A joystick navigation mode includes a joystick graphical user interface element that is optionally manipulated by a user via a touchscreen of a device. In some embodiments the joystick graphical user interface element includes a neutral point and user input is achieved by touching and dragging the element in a direction and in a distance from the neutral point. In further embodiments a joystick navigation mode allows a user to navigate e.g. browse traverse select etc. the items in the navigable list of items. In still further embodiments in a joystick navigation mode a user optionally presses and drags on a joystick graphical user interface element using a touchscreen of the device to navigate. In some embodiments a user optionally drags vertically to scroll the list of items. In further embodiments where the menu is in a three dimensional configuration the user optionally drags horizontally to rotate the menu itself. In some embodiments where a gravity option is active the menu scrolls and or rotates with the configured inertial effects. Many forms are suitable to graphically represent a joystick interface. For example in a particular embodiment a joystick interface is suitably represented by a small geometric graphic such as a sphere.

In some embodiments a joystick graphical user interface element is modal. In further embodiments in one mode the joystick allows the user to display and manipulate an administrative menu. In still further embodiments in another mode the joystick allows the user to navigate the list of items select items and manipulate the list with yaw pitch and roll control. By way of example where the list of items is a 2D list touching and dragging the joystick element up pushes the list up and touching and dragging the joystick element down pushes the list down. By way of further example where the list of items is a 3D list touching and dragging the joystick element will yaw pitch and roll the list as well as push it right or left. In yet further embodiments the joystick in the second mode allows the user to reset the calibration point of the gyroscope of the processing device by for example double tapping on the joystick element.

Referring to in a particular embodiment a joystick graphical user interface element is represented in the form of a small sphere. In this embodiment moving the element into the upper left quadrant triggers the application to move the list of items both up and to the left moving the element into the upper right quadrant triggers the application to move the list of items both up and to the right moving the element into the lower left quadrant triggers the application to move the list of items both down and to the left and moving the element into the lower right quadrant triggers the application to move the list of items both down and to the right.

In some embodiments the systems media and methods disclosed herein include a gyroscopic scroll and rotation navigation mode. In further embodiments a gyroscopic navigation mode allows a user to navigate e.g. browse traverse select etc. the items in the navigable list of items. In still further embodiments in a gyroscopic navigation mode a user optionally rotates the device to navigate. In some embodiments a user optionally rotates the device on a horizontal axis to scroll the list of items. In further embodiments where the menu is in a three dimensional configuration the user optionally rotates the device on a vertical axis to rotate the menu itself. In some embodiments where a gravity option is active the menu scrolls and or rotates with the configured inertial effects.

In some embodiments a gyroscopic navigation mode allows a user to play one or more videos or video previews forward or backwards at variable speeds by pitching or rolling the device depending on the degree of rotation of the device.

In some embodiments the systems media and methods disclosed herein include an interface for presenting item details. In further embodiments the item details comprise information associated with or pertaining to a particular item selected from the list of items. In still further embodiments the item details comprise metadata associated with the item such as EXIF data. In some embodiments a user interacts with an item in the list of items to select the item and further interacts with the selected item to trigger the application to present the item details.

In some embodiments the systems media and methods disclosed herein include an interface for presenting item options. In further embodiments the item options comprise software functions associated with or pertaining to a particular item selected from the list of items. In some embodiments a user interacts with an item in the list of items to select the item and further interacts with the selected item to trigger the application to present the item options. Many item options are suitable. By way of example suitable item options include opening one or more selected items in an appropriate viewer or player application e.g. video player audio player webpage viewer 3D model viewer text viewer graphics viewer etc. . By way of further example suitable item options include opening one or more selected items in an appropriate editor application e.g. video editor audio editor webpage editor 3D model editor text editor graphics editor etc. .

Referring to in a particular embodiment where a user has selected a photograph interacting with the selected photograph e.g. by vertical swiping or tapping a touchscreen etc. triggers the application to present item details and options. In this embodiment the details and options are presented via a rotating three dimensional geometric interface. In this embodiment rotation of the interface is optionally achieved by a user rotating the device e.g. gyroscopic navigation by a user vertically swiping the interface e.g. touchscreen navigation and or by a user manipulating a joystick control e.g. joystick navigation . Further in this embodiment upon user interaction with a selected photograph item details are presented including for example exposure mode brightness value focal length date time stamp flash information metering mode white balance scene capture type sharpness sensing method and make model of capturing device. Still further in this embodiment upon user interaction with a selected photograph item options are presented including for example sharing via text message email social media and the like deleting from the list marking as a favorite applying a visual effect theme and or look and accessing further options such as adding the item to a collection.

Referring to illustrate an embodiment including presentation of item details and options on a three dimensional geometric object wherein the item is presented on a first surface and the item details and options are presented on a second surface of the object. In this embodiment the three dimensional geometric object rotates upon user interaction to present the item details and options. show non limiting representative stages of the rotation.

In some embodiments the systems media and methods disclosed herein include an administrative menu. In further embodiments the administrative menu is comprised of a combination of buttons controllers settings and adjustments that display on the processing device e.g. a mobile phone or wearable device within a simulated multi dimensional three dimensional X Y and Z axis and or two dimensional X Y space. In further embodiments a user controls and positions the menu based on gyroscopic accelerometer and GPS data. In still further embodiments the administrative menu is a gyroscopically controlled menu.

For example in some embodiments rotation yaw pitch and roll of the mobile or wearable device working separately or in unison as well as X Y and Z axis placement positions the menu closer to the users preferred digit finger or thumb . In such embodiments the described subject matter solves the problems presented by using a device with a large touchscreen one handedly the user is thus provided the ability to navigate one handed with efficiency on various screen form factors large and small. In some embodiments the menu items are stacked in the Z axis to present menu items in an organized hierarchical display matrix. In further embodiments the most relevant items are presented closest to the user in the Z axis.

In further embodiments an administrative menu described herein allows a user to configure the properties and characteristics of the application. By way of example in some embodiments the administrative menu allows the user to configure the source of the items in the list of items. In various embodiments the administrative menu offers options for the source of the items comprising local storage and or remote storage such as social media platforms media sharing platforms and or cloud storage systems.

By further way of example in some embodiments the administrative menu allows the user to configure whether the application is in a two dimensional three dimensional mode or four dimensional including three spatial dimensions as well as changes over time . The list of items is presented as a two dimensional three dimensional or four dimensional list as described herein based on the application mode. In further embodiments the administrative menu allows the user to toggle between two and three dimensional presentations of the list of items.

By further way of example in some embodiments the administrative menu allows the user to configure the interactive properties of the list such as virtual gravity and inertial properties. In further embodiments such interactive properties affect the motion and behavior of the list of items in response to user interaction via the navigational modes described herein. In still further embodiments the administrative menu allows the user to reset the pivot point for gravity effects.

In some embodiments the application includes a joystick graphical user interface element. In further embodiments the joystick graphical user interface element is modal with a mode wherein use of the joystick allows the user to display the administrative menu. For example in some embodiments a user taps the joystick control once to activate the administrative menu. In still further embodiments the joystick graphical user interface element also has a mode wherein use of the joystick allows the user to navigate the list of items and manipulate the yaw pitch and roll of the list itself.

Referring to in a particular embodiment a user has activated the administrative menu by interacting with the joystick control. In this embodiment the menu is presented via a rotating three dimensional geometric interface. A user optionally toggles the three dimensional property of the list of items off on. illustrate an administrative menu with the three dimensional property off. illustrate an administrative menu with the three dimensional property on. A user optionally toggles the gravity property of the list of items off on. illustrate an administrative menu with the gravity property off. illustrate an administrative menu with the gravity property on. In this embodiment where the gravity property of the list of items is on the user optionally uses the administrative menu to reset the zero point for the gyroscope of the device.

Referring to in a particular embodiment the administrative menu allows the user to configure the source s for the items to be displayed in the list of items. In this embodiment the menu offers options for local device storage as well as social media platforms photo sharing platforms and cloud storage services.

Referring to in a particular embodiment the administrative menu is presented via a rotating three dimensional geometric interface. In this embodiment rotation of the interface is optionally achieved by a user rotating the device e.g. gyroscopic navigation by a user horizontally swiping the interface e.g. touchscreen navigation and or by a user manipulating a joystick control e.g. joystick navigation . Further in this embodiment selection of a menu option triggers the application to rotate the geometric interface to reveal sub options. In this embodiment the three dimensional geometric object rotates upon user interaction to present options and sub menus associated with the administrative menu. show non limiting representative stages of the rotation.

Referring to in a particular embodiment administrative menu is displayed on a plurality of three dimensional objects optionally gyroscopically manipulable in three dimensions as a single unit see A D showing various non limiting orientations achievable . In this embodiment three dimensional manipulation of the administrative menu allows a user to easily traverse large and complex menus using a touchscreen by using gyroscopic three dimensional manipulation of the menu to bring particular menu options closer to the user s thumb or finger. In such embodiments the reach of the user s digit is effectively extended to facilitate use of the menu on a device with a large touchscreen.

Continuing to refer to in a particular embodiment the menu includes interface elements allowing the user to view or play selected items including collections of items shuffle the list of items toggle a 3D view of the list of items toggle gravity effects and reset the zero point for the gyroscope of the device. In this embodiment the menu is activated e.g. opened and deactivated e.g. closed by interacting e.g. tapping double tapping etc. with the joystick interface element.

Referring to and B in a particular embodiment the administrative menu of includes a view play button for observing one or more selected items e.g. a collection . In this embodiment the view play button activates a sub menu which includes interface elements allowing the user to shuffle music associated with the items shuffle the items view each of the items individually with preview export the series of items as a video or slideshow and share the items via a social platform e.g. YouTube Instagram Vine Vimeo etc. .

Referring to and D in a particular embodiment the administrative menu of includes a settings button for gaining access to application configuration settings. In this embodiment the settings button activates a sub menu which includes interface elements allowing the user to configure the gyroscopic response screen sleep menu fade and photo opening characteristics.

In some embodiments the systems media and methods disclosed herein include features for adding removing and or editing looks or use of the same. In further embodiments looks are real time gyroscopically controlled visual effects including by way of non limiting examples colored lighting lens flares atmospherics environmental elements background textures graphical overlays such as type design elements stickers and the like.

In some embodiments looks are optionally applied to the list of items. In further embodiments looks are optionally applied in real time while viewing a list of items. In some embodiments looks are optionally applied to shared and or sharable lists. In some embodiments looks are optionally applied to collections. In some embodiments looks are optionally applied to one or more items in the list of items.

In some embodiments the systems media and methods disclosed herein include tools for adding removing and or configuring audio or use of the same. In further embodiments the audio is real time gyroscopically controlled music and audio effects activated by way of non limiting examples by navigating a list by selecting an item by viewing items details and or options by creating a collection and the like.

Many audio effects are suitable including by way of non limiting examples left right panning instrument change volume change audio mixing sound design musical flourishes and the like.

In some embodiments audio optionally applied to the list of items. In further embodiments audio is optionally applied in real time while viewing a list of items. In some embodiments audio is optionally applied to shared and or sharable lists. In some embodiments audio is optionally applied to collections. In some embodiments audio is optionally applied to one or more items in the list of items.

In some embodiments a voice annotation is optionally captured live during video recording while navigating a list or by adding a voice annotation to a previously recorded live video capture.

In some embodiments the systems media and methods disclosed herein include haptic user feedback or use of the same. Haptic feedback is suitably provided in response to or a part of many types of user interactions with the application. By way of non limiting examples haptic user feedback is suitably provided when a user navigates the list of items selects one or more items views item details and or options adds an item to a collection and the like. In further embodiments the haptic feedback is triggered for example by gyroscopically controlled roll speed while the user is actively browsing the list of items or a selected item via the picture viewer. In still further embodiments haptic feedback guides the user in magnetic centering and effects the way the user engages with location data.

In some embodiments the systems media and methods disclosed herein include tools to select one or more items from the navigable list of items to form a collection of items e.g. a secondary list of items a sub list of items etc. . For example in a particular embodiment the systems media and methods disclosed herein include a stage. In such embodiments the stage is a secondary virtual display to the right or left of the list of items wherein the user optionally selects one or more items from the list of items and slides the selection s onto the stage thus creating a collection. In some embodiments the collection is optionally manipulated in the same ways the list of items is optionally manipulated and independently of the list of items by for example X Y and or Z axis repositioning type looks graphics and or stickers audio and the like.

In some embodiments adding visual content to the stage by for example selecting visual content from the navigable list of items and sliding it to the stage allows the user build a collection. The visual content is optionally sourced from one or more local sources e.g. the local device one or more remote sources e.g. the cloud or a combination of local and remote sources.

In some embodiments a voice annotation is optionally captured live during creation of a collection or by adding a voice annotation to a previously created collection.

In some embodiments the systems media and methods disclosed herein include features to facilitate collaboration between a plurality of users or use of the same. In further embodiments a collection is created for the purposes of collaboration. Many forms of collaboration are suitable. In some embodiments a user shares a collection with collaborators. In such embodiments sharing allows collaborators to for example add items to the collection remove items from the collection rank order or prioritize items in the collection further share the collection and the like. In some embodiments a user also has the option to share the collection with collaboration turned off. When collaboration is turned off the collection is set up for consumption only. In some embodiments properties of the collection such as creative settings e.g. X Y and Z axis repositioning type looks graphics and or stickers audio and the like are controlled by the original creator. In other embodiments properties of the collection are optionally manipulated by users with whom the collection is shared.

In some embodiments a user has the option to export a collection as a linear video file. In further embodiments a collection exported as a linear video file is optionally shared for example via one or more social and or video sharing platforms. In some embodiments a user has the option to save a collection in an application native format by way of non limiting examples to the local device to a proprietary cloud system and or to third party cloud storage services e.g. DropBox Box etc. .

Referring to and B in a particular embodiment a user selects e.g. by touchscreen etc. one item in the list of items A or a plurality of items B to identify the selected items for inclusion in a collection.

Referring to and D in a particular embodiment selected items identified for inclusion in a collection are isolated by sliding them from the list e.g. to a stage etc. to form the collection.

In some embodiments the systems media and methods disclosed herein include features to record video or use of the same. In some embodiments the systems media and methods disclosed herein include features to record screen capture video documenting and or demonstrating use of the list of items and other features disclosed. For example a user optionally uses the video recording feature to tell a linear runtime story in realtime while the app is screen recording. In this example the user is serving as a live VJ to story tell via use of the list of items that he she can record and share as a non linear movie.

In further embodiments the systems media and methods disclosed herein include features to export recorded video or use of the same. Many video formats are suitable including by way of non limiting examples Windows Media Video WMV Windows Media Motion Picture Experts Group MPEG Audio Video Interleave AVI Apple QuickTime RealMedia Flash Video Motion JPEG M JPEG WebM Advanced Video Coding High Definition AVCHD Ogg Video Vob MV4 MP4 3GPP 3GPP2 and the like.

In some embodiments the systems media and methods disclosed herein include advertising upgrades and or feature add ons e.g. placement of ad units. For example in some embodiments advertising is optionally displayed within the list of items. In further embodiments the advertising is for the products and services of sponsors paying to have ads displayed within the list. In still further embodiments ad upgrade and or feature add on placement is determined by Z axis proximity. For example the closer the placement is to the viewer in z axis the higher the fees for placement.

In some embodiments the advertising upgrade and or feature add on is placed as an item in the list of items. In other embodiments the advertising upgrade and or feature add on does not comprise a menu item. In some embodiments ads upgrades and or feature add ons are placed in the list with a position determined algorithmically. In further embodiments factors used to determine the positioning of the ads upgrades and or feature add ons are for example subject matter neighboring colors image composition location and people or some other metadata criteria. In some embodiments ads are placed in the list with a frequency determined algorithmically.

In some embodiments the systems media and methods described herein include a digital processing device or use of the same. In further embodiments the digital processing device includes one or more hardware central processing units CPU that carry out the device s functions. In still further embodiments the digital processing device further comprises an operating system configured to perform executable instructions. In some embodiments the digital processing device is optionally connected a computer network. In further embodiments the digital processing device is optionally connected to the Internet such that it accesses the World Wide Web. In still further embodiments the digital processing device is optionally connected to a cloud computing infrastructure. In other embodiments the digital processing device is optionally connected to an intranet. In other embodiments the digital processing device is optionally connected to a data storage device.

In some embodiments the digital processing device includes one or more sensors. In some embodiments the processing device includes an accelerometer. In further embodiments an accelerometer is used to detect the orientation of the device by tracking linear acceleration. In some embodiments the processing device includes a gyroscope. In further embodiments a gyroscope is used to detect the orientation of the device by tracking angular rotational velocity. In some embodiments the processing device includes a digital compass. In some embodiments the processing device includes a barometer.

In some embodiments the digital processing device includes a geolocation element. Geolocation is the identification of the real world geographic location of an object such as a handheld computer mobile smartphone or a portable computing device such as a laptop or tablet computer. A location is suitably expressed in a number of ways including by way of non limiting examples geographic coordinates e.g. latitude and longitude a place name e.g. county city landmark intersection etc. a physical street address distance from a given location presence within a specified radius from a given location and a graphical depiction on a map. In some cases geolocation involves geocoding to find associated latitude and longitude from other geographic data. In some cases geolocation involves reverse geocoding to back code latitude and longitude coordinates to a readable address or place name.

Many methods of geolocation are suitable that utilize several underlying sources of location information. In some embodiments a software module geolocates for example a user or a mobile processing device using sources of location information including by way of non limiting examples GPS coordinates provided by a processing device triangulation between mobile phone towers and public masts e.g. assistive GPS Wi Fi connection location WHOIS performed on IP address or MAC address e.g. WiFi base station MAC address GSM CDMA cell IDs e.g. identification triangulation and multilateration and location information self reported by a user. In some embodiments location information includes position e.g. latitude and longitude elevation heading speed orientation and combinations thereof.

In some embodiments a software module geolocates for example a user or a mobile processing device using the HTML 5 geolocation API. In light of the disclosure provided herein those of skill in the art will recognize that the HTML 5 geolocation API is supported in Internet Explorer 9.0 Firefox 3.5 Safari 5.0 Chrome 5.0 Opera 10.6 iOS 3.0 Android 2.0 and Windows Phone 7.5 . In some embodiments a software module geolocates for example a news event or a contributor using methods aligned with W3C Geolocation API available at http dev.w3.org geo api spec source.html . The W3C Geolocation API defines an interface to location information associated with a processing device e.g. smartphone tablet computer laptop computer etc. hosting the implementation such as latitude and longitude.

In accordance with the description herein suitable digital processing devices include by way of non limiting examples handheld computers wearable computers Internet appliances mobile smartphones tablet computers personal digital assistants and video game consoles. Those of skill in the art will recognize that many smartphones are suitable for use in the system described herein. Those of skill in the art will also recognize that select televisions video players and digital music players with optional computer network connectivity are suitable for use in the system described herein. Suitable tablet computers include those with booklet slate and convertible configurations known to those of skill in the art.

In some embodiments the digital processing device includes an operating system configured to perform executable instructions. The operating system is for example software including programs and data which manages the device s hardware and provides services for execution of applications. Those of skill in the art will recognize that suitable server operating systems include by way of non limiting examples FreeBSD OpenBSD NetBSD Linux Apple Mac OS X Server Oracle Solaris Windows Server and Novell NetWare . Those of skill in the art will recognize that suitable personal computer operating systems include by way of non limiting examples Microsoft Windows Apple Mac OS X UNIX and UNIX like operating systems such as GNU Linux . In some embodiments the operating system is provided by cloud computing. Those of skill in the art will also recognize that suitable mobile smart phone operating systems include by way of non limiting examples Nokia Symbian OS Apple iOS Research In Motion BlackBerry OS Google Android Microsoft Windows Phone OS Microsoft Windows Mobile OS Linux and Palm WebOS Oculus Rift Android Wear Apple Watch Google Glass . Those of skill in the art will also recognize that suitable media streaming device operating systems include by way of non limiting examples Apple TV Roku Boxee Google TV Google Chromecast Amazon Fire and Samsung HomeSync . Those of skill in the art will also recognize that suitable video game console operating systems include by way of non limiting examples Sony PS3 Sony PS4 Sony PSVita Sony Playstation Mobile Microsoft Xbox 360 Microsoft Xbox One Nintendo Wii Nintendo Wii U and Ouya Oculus Rift Android Wear Apple Watch Google Glass Sony s PS4 Virtual Reality Project Morpheus .

In some embodiments the device includes a storage and or memory device. The storage and or memory device is one or more physical apparatuses used to store data or programs on a temporary or permanent basis. In some embodiments the device is volatile memory and requires power to maintain stored information. In some embodiments the device is non volatile memory and retains stored information when the digital processing device is not powered. In further embodiments the non volatile memory comprises flash memory. In some embodiments the non volatile memory comprises dynamic random access memory DRAM . In some embodiments the non volatile memory comprises ferroelectric random access memory FRAM . In some embodiments the non volatile memory comprises phase change random access memory PRAM . In other embodiments the device is a storage device including by way of non limiting examples CD ROMs DVDs flash memory devices magnetic disk drives magnetic tapes drives optical disk drives and cloud computing based storage. In further embodiments the storage and or memory device is a combination of devices such as those disclosed herein.

In some embodiments the digital processing device includes a display to send visual information to a user. In some embodiments the display is a liquid crystal display LCD . In further embodiments the display is a thin film transistor liquid crystal display TFT LCD . In some embodiments the display is an organic light emitting diode OLED display. In various further embodiments an OLED display is a passive matrix OLED PMOLED or active matrix OLED AMOLED display. In some embodiments the display is a touch screen display or multitouch screen display. In some embodiments the display is a plasma display. In other embodiments the display is a video projector. In some embodiments the display is a retinal laser projection or LED LCD Laser projected onto surfaces and or particular atmospherics. In still further embodiments the display is a combination of devices such as those disclosed herein.

In some embodiments the digital processing device includes an input device to receive information from a user. In some embodiments the input device is a keyboard. In some embodiments the input device is a pointing device including by way of non limiting examples a mouse trackball track pad joystick game controller or stylus. In some embodiments the input device is a touch screen or a multitouch screen. In other embodiments the input device is a microphone to capture voice or other sound input. In other embodiments the input device is a video camera or other sensor to capture motion or visual input. In further embodiments the input device is a Kinect Leap Motion or the like. In other embodiments the input device is a camera or other sensor to capture user eye and or head motion. In further embodiments the input device is a virtual reality headset such as Oculus Rift HTC Vive Android Wear Google Glass Sony s PS4 Virtual Reality Project Morpheus . In still further embodiments the input device is a combination of devices such as those disclosed herein.

In some embodiments the systems media and methods disclosed herein include one or more non transitory computer readable storage media encoded with a program including instructions executable by the operating system of an optionally networked digital processing device. In further embodiments a computer readable storage medium is a tangible component of a digital processing device. In still further embodiments a computer readable storage medium is optionally removable from a digital processing device. In some embodiments a computer readable storage medium includes by way of non limiting examples CD ROMs DVDs flash memory devices solid state memory magnetic disk drives magnetic tape drives optical disk drives cloud computing systems and services photonic crystals and the like. In some cases the program and instructions are permanently substantially permanently semi permanently or non transitorily encoded on the media.

In some embodiments the systems media and methods disclosed herein include at least one computer program or use of the same. A computer program includes a sequence of instructions executable in the digital processing device s CPU written to perform a specified task. Computer readable instructions may be implemented as program modules such as functions objects Application Programming Interfaces APIs data structures and the like that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. In light of the disclosure provided herein those of skill in the art will recognize that a computer program may be written in various versions of various languages.

The functionality of the computer readable instructions may be combined or distributed as desired in various environments. In some embodiments a computer program comprises one sequence of instructions. In some embodiments a computer program comprises a plurality of sequences of instructions. In some embodiments a computer program is provided from one location. In other embodiments a computer program is provided from a plurality of locations. In various embodiments a computer program includes one or more software modules. In various embodiments a computer program includes in part or in whole one or more web applications one or more mobile applications one or more standalone applications one or more web browser plug ins extensions add ins or add ons or combinations thereof.

In some embodiments a computer program includes a mobile application provided to a mobile digital processing device. In some embodiments the mobile application is provided to a mobile digital processing device at the time it is manufactured. In other embodiments the mobile application is provided to a mobile digital processing device via the computer network described herein.

In view of the disclosure provided herein a mobile application is created by techniques known to those of skill in the art using hardware languages and development environments known to the art. Those of skill in the art will recognize that mobile applications are written in several languages. Suitable programming languages include by way of non limiting examples C C C Objective C Java Javascript Pascal Object Pascal Python Ruby VB.NET WML and XHTML HTML with or without CSS Unity Unreal Engine or combinations thereof.

In some embodiments a mobile application includes a multimedia element. In various further embodiments a multimedia element utilizes one or more of many suitable multimedia technologies including by way of non limiting examples Adobe Flash HTML 5 Apple QuickTime Microsoft Silverlight Java and Unity . In a particular embodiment a multimedia element utilizes Unity .

Suitable mobile application development environments are available from several sources. Commercially available development environments include by way of non limiting examples AirplaySDK alcheMo Appcelerator Celsius Bedrock Flash Lite .NET Compact Framework Rhomobile and WorkLight Mobile Platform. Other development environments are available without cost including by way of non limiting examples Lazarus MobiFlex MoSync and Phonegap. Also mobile device manufacturers distribute software developer kits including by way of non limiting examples iPhone and iPad iOS SDK Android SDK BlackBerry SDK BREW SDK Palm OS SDK Symbian SDK webOS SDK and Windows Mobile SDK.

Those of skill in the art will recognize that several commercial forums are available for distribution of mobile applications including by way of non limiting examples Apple App Store Android PlayStore Google Play BlackBerry App World Chrome WebStore App Store for Palm devices App Catalog for webOS Windows Marketplace for Mobile Ovi Store for Nokia devices Samsung Apps and Nintendo DSi Shop.

In some embodiments a computer program includes a standalone application which is a program that is run as an independent computer process not an add on to an existing process e.g. not a plug in. Those of skill in the art will recognize that standalone applications are often compiled. A compiler is a computer program s that transforms source code written in a programming language into binary object code such as assembly language or machine code. Suitable compiled programming languages include by way of non limiting examples C C Objective C COBOL Delphi Eiffel Java Lisp Python Visual Basic and VB .NET or combinations thereof. Compilation is often performed at least in part to create an executable program. In some embodiments a computer program includes one or more executable complied applications.

In some embodiments the systems media and methods disclosed herein include software server and or database modules or use of the same. In view of the disclosure provided herein software modules are created by techniques known to those of skill in the art using machines software and languages known to the art. The software modules disclosed herein are implemented in a multitude of ways. In various embodiments a software module comprises a file a section of code a programming object a programming structure or combinations thereof. In further various embodiments a software module comprises a plurality of files a plurality of sections of code a plurality of programming objects a plurality of programming structures or combinations thereof. In various embodiments the one or more software modules comprise by way of non limiting examples a web application a mobile application and a standalone application. In some embodiments software modules are in one computer program or application. In other embodiments software modules are in more than one computer program or application. In some embodiments software modules are hosted on one machine. In other embodiments software modules are hosted on more than one machine. In further embodiments software modules are hosted on cloud computing platforms. In some embodiments software modules are hosted on one or more machines in one location. In other embodiments software modules are hosted on one or more machines in more than one location.

In some embodiments the systems media and methods disclosed herein include one or more databases or use of the same. In view of the disclosure provided herein those of skill in the art will recognize that many databases are suitable for storage and retrieval of user list and item information. In various embodiments suitable databases include by way of non limiting examples relational databases non relational databases object oriented databases object databases entity relationship model databases associative databases and XML databases. In some embodiments a database is internet based. In further embodiments a database is web based. In still further embodiments a database is cloud computing based. In other embodiments a database is based on one or more local computer storage devices.

While preferred embodiments of the present invention have been shown and described herein it will be obvious to those skilled in the art that such embodiments are provided by way of example only. Numerous variations changes and substitutions will now occur to those skilled in the art without departing from the invention. It should be understood that various alternatives to the embodiments of the invention described herein may be employed in practicing the invention.

