---

title: Storyboard-directed video production from shared and individualized assets
abstract: Systems and methods are described for automatically driving portions of a video production workflow according specifications governed by a data-rich storyboard. Embodiments operate in context of a novel video production workflow in which much or all of the production expertise of a traditional production workflow collaborates at a storyboard phase of the workflow to architect a single, data-rich storyboard according to concepts and rules. The rich storyboard is generated and stored in a data framework that drives specifications over the workflow in such a way that portions of the workflow can be automated and consistently repeated. For example, the rich storyboard drives generation of automated coaches for acquisition and pre-auditing of individualized story assets from storymakers. The rich storyboard can then drive automated rendering of the assets into multiple, individualized storyvine video products that each conforms to the rich storyboard concepts, rules, and specifications.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09583139&OS=09583139&RS=09583139
owner: Storyvine, LLC
number: 09583139
owner_city: Boulder
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150326
---
Embodiments relate generally to video production and more particularly to rich storyboard directed video asset gathering and production.

Professional video production can traditionally be costly and time consuming. In a traditional environment a concept is provided to one or more front end experts e.g. pre production experts like writers and directors who decide how to convey the concept and what video and or other content to gather and include. The content is then acquired including shooting any desired video by acquisition experts e.g. directors set designers camera operators lighting designers sound designers etc. . Once acquired the content is passed to back end experts e.g. post production experts like directors video editors and renderers to generate the final video production output. At each stage of production corresponding experts attempt to mold the inputs they receive into desired outputs. For example the director tries to shoot lots of footage in an attempt to acquire at least what will be needed to cut a good final product to satisfy the concept then the footage is cut edited in post production in an attempt to satisfy the director s vision. With these approaches many experts tend to be used throughout the various stages of the process each trying to produce desired outputs from provided inputs without further complicating the production with additional iterations re shoots of footage re edits etc.

These traditional approaches can be limited in a number of contexts. One such limitation is that traditional approaches can be time and or cost prohibitive for many if not most uses. As video production becomes more commonplace more contexts arise in which video productions are desired but it is impractical or impossible to spend adequate time and or funds on traditional professional video production workflows and associated experts. Another such limitation is that the final output of traditional approaches is typically a single video production that hopefully satisfies a provided concept. Increasing numbers of contexts are arising in which there is a desire for many individualized video productions that conform to a singular concept. Traditional workflows do not tend to be conducive to outputting multiple video productions from shared expert resources and doing so tends to be expensive and time consuming. Further traditional approaches do not tend to lend themselves to creating multiple productions according to a similar concept particularly where the video assets are gathered by different people in different places and or at different times with different skills etc.

Among other things systems and methods are described for automatically driving portions of a video production workflow according specifications governed by a data rich storyboard. Embodiments operate in context of a novel video production workflow that attempts to move many or all of the production expertise of a traditional production workflow to a front end storyboard phase. For example concept pre production acquisition post production approval and or other experts collaborate at a storyboard phase of the workflow to architect a single data rich storyboard according to concepts and rules. The rich storyboard is generated and stored in a data framework that drives specifications over the workflow in such a way that portions of the workflow can be automated and consistently repeated. For example the rich storyboard drives generation of automated coaches e.g. wizard applications for acquisition and pre auditing of individualized story assets from users storymakers . The rich storyboard can then drive automated rendering of the assets into multiple individualized video products that each conforms to the rich storyboard concepts rules and specifications.

According to one set of embodiments a method is provided for generating a video production from a rich storyboard. The method includes identifying a computer readable rich storyboard that defines production specifications and a sequence of storybeats for use in a number of video productions each storybeat comprising a set of storybeat assets a first portion of the storybeat assets being shared storybeat assets associated with shared asset data and a second portion of the storybeat assets being individualized storybeat assets associated with asset acquisition specifications generating a computer implemented asset acquisition coach operable for each individualized storybeat asset to acquire individualized asset data according to its asset gathering specifications receiving via the computer implemented asset acquisition coach individualized asset data for each individualized storybeat asset and communicating the individualized asset data for each individualized storybeat asset to a rendering system in such a way that a video production can be rendered according to the sequence of storybeats with each shared storybeat asset being rendered according to the production specifications and its associated shared asset data and each individualized storybeat asset being rendered according to the production specifications and its associated individualized asset data. Some such embodiments include a computer program product residing on a non transitory processor readable medium and having processor readable instructions which when executed cause a processor to perform the method.

According to another set of embodiments a storymaker system is provided for acquiring individualized assets for use in video productions generated according to a rich storyboard. The system includes a computer implemented asset coaching subsystem and a computer implemented asset auditing subsystem. The computer implemented asset coaching subsystem is operable to receive asset acquisition specifications generated according to a rich storyboard that defines production specifications and a sequence of storybeats for use in a number of video productions each storybeat comprising a set of storybeat assets a first portion of the storybeat assets being shared storybeat assets associated with shared asset data and a second portion of the storybeat assets being individualized storybeat assets associated with the asset acquisition specifications and asset acceptance specifications and acquire via a computer implemented graphical asset acquisition interface individualized asset data for each individualized storybeat asset according to its respective asset gathering specifications. The computer implemented asset auditing subsystem is in communication with the asset coaching subsystem and is operable to audit the individualized asset data to determine whether the individualized asset data conforms with the asset acceptance specifications. The computer implemented asset coaching subsystem further operable when the individualized asset data conforms with the asset acceptance specifications to communicate the individualized asset data of each individualized storybeat asset in such a way that a video production can be rendered according to the sequence of storybeats with each individualized storybeat asset being rendered according to the production specifications and its associated individualized asset data.

According to yet another set of embodiments an agency system is provided for acquiring individualized assets for use in video productions generated according to a rich storyboard. The system includes a storyvine storyboard subsystem and a storyvine rendering subsystem. The storyvine storyboard subsystem is operable to generate a computer readable rich storyboard that defines production specifications and a sequence of storybeats for use in a number of video productions each storybeat comprising a set of storybeat assets a first portion of the storybeat assets being shared storybeat assets associated with shared asset data and a second portion of the storybeat assets being individualized storybeat assets associated with asset acquisition specifications and communicate the asset acquisition specifications to a computer implemented asset coaching subsystem operable to acquire via a graphical asset acquisition interface individualized asset data for each individualized storybeat asset according to its respective asset gathering specifications. The storyvine rendering subsystem is operable to receive the individualized asset data for the individualized storybeat assets from the computer implemented asset coaching subsystem and render a video production according to the sequence of storybeats by rendering each shared storybeat asset according to the production specifications and its associated shared asset data and by rendering each individualized storybeat asset according to the production specifications and its associated individualized asset data.

In the appended figures similar components and or features can have the same reference label. Further various components of the same type can be distinguished by following the reference label by a second label that distinguishes among the similar components. If only the first reference label is used in the specification the description is applicable to any one of the similar components having the same first reference label irrespective of the second reference label.

As personal computing power increases more information is being consumed through more platforms using video. Accordingly there is an increasing desire to create high quality video productions for contexts ranging from full scale productions e.g. movies television programs documentaries etc. to short form productions e.g. video blogs advertisements video cards and invitations etc. . Typically an end user that wishes to generate a video production has limited options. At one end of a spectrum of options the end user can shoot and or otherwise gather video footage and use consumer level software to produce a final product e.g. including ex post rearranging of video clips adding of scene transitions adding of music etc. . While this type of approach tends to be cost effective the resulting production tends to look unprofessional. At another end of the spectrum of options the end user can hire video production experts to develop a concept shoot and gather footage edit the footage and produce e.g. render a final video product using professional video production software and hardware. Under this type of approach results in a production that looks professional but tends to be costly and time consuming.

Embodiments described herein address contexts in which unprofessional looking video productions are insufficient or undesirable and where it is cost and or time prohibitive or otherwise impractical or undesirable to use a traditional professional video production workflow. Suppose a national stock brokerage firm has hundreds or thousands of agents and wishes to have video introductions from each agent on their website. They further wish each video not only to look professional but to have a consistent look and feel e.g. with certain common graphics color schemes story flow conformance to marketing and branding objectives etc. . Professionally producing each agent video according to a traditional professional workflow would be expensive and time consuming. Further it would tend to be difficult and expensive to control consistency across the video products particularly where agents are geographically diverse and or joining the agency at different times.

Embodiments operate in context of a novel video production workflow that attempts to move many or all of the experts that tend to be used throughout the traditional production workflow e.g. acquisition and post production experts to the front end. According to some embodiments concept pre production acquisition post production approval and or other experts collaborate at a storyboard phase of the workflow to architect a single data rich storyboard according to concepts and rules. The rich storyboard is generated and stored in a data framework that drives specifications over the workflow in such a way that portions of the workflow can be automated and consistently repeated. For example the rich storyboard drives generation of automated coaches e.g. wizard applications for acquisition and pre auditing of individualized story assets from users storymakers . The rich storyboard can then drive automated rendering of the assets into multiple individualized video products that each conforms to the rich storyboard concepts rules and specifications.

In the following description numerous specific details are set forth to provide a thorough understanding of various embodiments. However one having ordinary skill in the art should recognize that the invention can be practiced without these specific details. In some instances circuits structures and techniques have not been shown in detail to avoid obscuring the present invention.

Turning to a block diagram is shown of an embodiment of a video production environment having an agency system in communication with multiple storymaker systems over a network according to various embodiments. Embodiments allow agencies to control acquisition of individualized data from multiple storymakers and to control use of that data in producing multiple storyvine videos with a common look and feel across a sequence of storybeats all according to a pre defined data rich storyboard. As used herein an agency is intended generally to refer to any individual or entity by whom or on whose behalf a rich storyboard is created with the intent to produce one or more storyvine video productions. A rich storyboard represents a number of rules concepts and other inputs from the agency and or others as a number of computer readable specifications. For example the rich storyboard includes production specifications asset gathering specifications auditing specifications etc. The rich storyboard also includes a number e.g. a sequence of storybeats each representing a portion e.g. clip segment vignette etc. of a final storyvine video production as a set of storybeat assets and layout specifications e.g. position size shape transparency transition layer etc. . The storybeat assets in each storybeat can include video data textual data audio data and or any other suitable data. In each rich storyboard at least some of the storybeats are individualized storybeats for which at least some of the assets are individualized assets. The rich storyboard defines which storybeat assets are individualized assets and associates each individualized asset with one or more asset acquisition criteria. Individualized storybeat asset data is acquired from storymakers end users according to their asset acquisition criteria. Other storybeat assets are shared storybeat assets in that they are intended for use across multiple storyvine video productions generated from the same rich storyboard. For example shared storybeat assets can be acquired from a pool of pre stored assets generated specifically for use with a particular rich storyboard etc. so that some or all of the storyvine video productions generated from the same rich storyboard will manifest a particular desired look and feel. The terms discussed above will be further understood in context of the descriptions of embodiments provided herein.

The agency system includes a storyvine storyboard subsystem a storyvine audit subsystem and a storyvine render subsystem . The storyvine storyboard subsystem generates a data rich storyboard that represents a number of rules concepts and other inputs as a number of computer readable specifications. For example conceptual experts e.g. writers and directors begin to formulate a high level story concept and flow. Preproduction experts e.g. directors set and lighting designers branding and marketing experts etc. mature the high level concept and flow into storybeats each having associated timing e.g. timing ranges synchronization information etc. transitions storybeat assets etc. Some shared storybeat assets are already available and others are designed and or otherwise generated. Where individualized storybeat assets are desired specifications are developed to define what data is desired how the data should be collected when and or how collected data should be approved etc. Postproduction experts e.g. rendering and editing experts work with the conceptual and preproduction experts to develop production specifications for how the storybeats should be rendered edited approved etc. Some or all of these and or other types of specifications are formulated into computer readable specifications that make up the rich storyboard . In this way substantially the entire production workflow can be automated and directed according to the rich storyboard .

The rich storyboard is communicated over the network to one or more storymaker systems . Each storymaker system includes an asset coach subsystem . The asset coach subsystem is configured to coach individual storymakers to provide individualized storybeat asset data for use in creating storyvine video productions . In some embodiments the storymaker systems include an asset audit subsystem that audits the provided storybeat asset data before allowing it to be used in a storyvine video production . In some implementations the asset audit subsystem automatically audits the provided storybeat asset data according to asset acquisition specifications and or asset auditing specifications defined according to the rich storyboard received from the agency system .

Acquired e.g. and audited individualized storybeat asset data is communicated back to one or more subsystems of the agency system . In some implementations the storybeat asset data is communicated to the storyvine audit subsystem where it is manually and or automatically audited alone and or in the context of other assets of its storybeat. For example a pre rendered version of the storybeat is communicated to auditing personnel who can review and pre approve the storybeat via the storyvine audit subsystem . In other implementations the storybeat asset data is communicated to the storyvine render subsystem where it is rendered into a storybeat a set of storybeats or an entire storyvine video production . For example the individualized storybeat asset data and shared storybeat asset data is rendered according to production specifications defined by the rich storyboard to generate a final video product a draft video product e.g. a proof a low resolution version etc. etc. The rendered video product can then be communicated to the storyvine audit subsystem for further auditing e.g. manual and or automated auditing . The storyvine audit subsystem can determine whether further acquisition of assets is desired re acquisition of assets is desired a final storyvine video product can be released etc. The final storyvine video productions can be stored published to the Internet or used in any other desired manner.

Embodiments of the video production environment can be implemented in any suitable network architecture. In one exemplary implementation subsystems of the agency system are all collocated. For example the subsystems may all be implemented as part of a single computational environment in a single local area network on a single server or group of servers etc. In other implementations some or all of the subsystems of the agency system are remote from one another. For example a single computational environment can be configured to include the storyvine storyboard subsystem and the storyvine audit subsystem as applications while the storyvine render subsystem is implemented in a remote cloud based rendering environment in communication with the other subsystems over a public or private network. The agency system can communicate with the storymaker systems via any suitable type of network . For example the network can include public and or private networks wired and or wireless network links etc. Each storymaker system can be implemented on any suitable device or system. In some implementations the storymaker system is implemented on a fixed or mobile user device like a computer smart phone tablet etc. In other implementations the storymaker system is implemented as an application of a content acquisition device like a video camera. For example either a smart phone with video capability or a professional video camera can be configured to run applications including the asset coach subsystem and or the asset audit subsystem .

For the sake of illustration a real estate brokerage agency desires to publish introduction videos from each of its agents on its website. The broker agents are geographically dispersed have different personalities and have different skills and statistics to highlight. While the brokerage agency wants to highlight those differences it also wants to convey a sense of cohesiveness professionalism and brand. Further particularly as broker agents constantly join and leave the team and as information associated with each broker agent changes over time it is important to the brokerage agency to be able to generate and change agent videos in a manner that is individualized and dynamic while also being consistent and cost effective.

The brokerage agency hires story architects to develop a concept to maintain across the videos. The story architects including various conceptual pre production post production and or other expertise collaborate with the agency s marketing team and other personnel to develop a rich storyboard for the agent videos. Each agent introduction video is architected to include many elements common to all the videos that provide a consistent and professional look and feel graphical elements timeline layout color scheme etc. . However each video is also architected to include individualized portions that can be unique to each agent e.g. unique graphics video segments informational listings etc. .

The rich storyboard drives building of an environment using the asset coach subsystem through which each broker agent storymaker is coached through providing desired storybeat asset data through a storymaker system . For example one screen asks the agent to fill in text fields e.g. name location profile etc. and another screen asks the agent to place the video camera three feet away and to speak for twenty seconds about the agent s philosophy on selling a family home. The storybeat asset data from each broker agent can be audited using the asset audit subsystem to determine whether the input meets predefined acceptance criteria e.g. data format image quality lighting quality duration etc. . If not the broker agent can be asked to try again.

Once the storybeat asset data is acquired e.g. and accepted for a broker agent it can be combined with shared assets and other rich storyboard information e.g. production specifications to automatically render a storyvine video production using the storyvine render subsystem . For example the individualized assets are meshed into a pre conceptualized video product having any desired timeline music graphics transitions and or other features e.g. static and or dynamic features as dictated by the rich storyboard with little or no need for additional back end editing or other processing. As other broker agents finish acquiring their storybeat asset data storyvine video productions can be rendered using the storyvine render subsystem according to the same rich storyboard . Though each broker agent may acquire their storybeat asset data in different ways e.g. using a professional videographer or a smart phone camera in different locations at different times etc. the asset collection can be coached and audited to result in a substantially consistent looking set of storybeat asset data from each broker agent. Accordingly the rich storyboard facilitates using individualized assets to output consistent production quality storyvine videos for any number of storymakers while preserving high level concept and production objectives.

A number of features can be realized with a video production environment like the ones discussed herein. One such feature is that production costs can be spread e.g. amortized across many video productions. For example even if expensive expertise from across the traditional video production workflow is used in creating the rich storyboard that same rich storyboard can be used to direct production of multiple videos with little or no additional expert intervention. Another feature is that each storybeat asset e.g. whether shared or individualized can be associated with a rich hierarchical metadata stack. For example an individualized storybeat asset can be associated with acceptance specifications e.g. thresholds for lighting image quality duration etc. role specifications e.g. whether the video asset can be approved by the story maker or whether it has to be approved by someone with particular authority production specifications e.g. attributes that define its context within the storyboard sequence foreground or background level transparency transition etc. acquisition specifications e.g. prompt instructions coaching page layout instructions etc. position within a data hierarchy e.g. a particular video of a particular agent of a particular division of a particular agency etc. etc.

Another feature is that the individualized storybeat assets are acquired according to directives of the rich storyboard but they live independent of the rich storyboard and or of the storyvine video productions of which they are a part. For example shared and individualized assets can be dynamically rendered into a storyvine video production according to the rich storyboard then later remixed according to modifications to the rich storyboard their metadata their storybeat asset data etc. For the sake of illustration suppose an agent of the brokerage agency in the example above moves to a new state. Because each story asset is separate from the final video product the individualized assets that reference the agent s state can be updated e.g. manually or automatically and the video product can be re rendered with relatively little effort. Another related feature is that the rich storyboard facilitates application of high level business rules and the like to collection approval and or other tasks relating to low level storybeat asset data . While the rich storyboard can drive acquisition of a defined asset e.g. a particular shared or individualized graphic video segment text element etc. it can also define business rules to dynamically determine which of a set of assets to acquire and or to modify one or more assets. For example a broker agent enters an office zip code as an individualized asset via a wizard. When the video product renders a shared asset of the video displaying a map in the background automatically highlights the region of the map served by the broker agent s zip code.

These and other features will be appreciated more fully in light of descriptions of various embodiments herein and in comparison to traditional approaches to video production workflows. Turning to a flow diagram is shown of a traditional video production workflow according to some prior art implementations. The workflow includes a number of phases and illustrates some typical input expertise to those phases and outputs from those phases. The names of the phases are intended only to be illustrative as real world workflows tend to include appreciable overlap between phases iteration within and between phases parallel performance of phases etc. The expertise ascribed to the phases is also intended only to be illustrative as different types of productions utilize different types of expertise or similar expertise with different titles in different ways.

As illustrated a traditional workflow starts at a concept phase when a concept is generated by concept designers for a video production. The concept designers can be agency personnel marketing experts advertising experts writers and or any other suitable individuals or entities. For example the concept may manifest as a script or screenplay or a set of high level concept objectives e.g. branding objectives etc. . During the concept phase other rules can be determined such as budget and business rules. The concept is further developed in a pre production phase during which writers directors and or any other suitable individuals or entities generate a basic storyboard . The basic storyboard can divide the story concept into a set of shots on a timeline. In some instances the writers directors and or others use the basic storyboard to conceptualize each shot with plans for location settings actors props shot types e.g. camera position angle etc. effects e.g. lighting camera movement computer graphics etc. etc.

After the pre production phase the basic storyboard is turned into a video production output . During an asset gathering phase the directors can work with actors designers e.g. of lighting sets props effects etc. equipment operators e.g. camera operators grips etc. and or any other suitable individuals or entities to gather the assets needed for each shot. For example each shot is set up and filmed. Typically to avoid having to call back all actors designers equipment operators and or others for re shooting of scenes appreciably more footage is gathered than necessary with plans for post editing e.g. cutting compositing etc. . During a post production phase all the footage and or other materials e.g. computer effects etc. are used to generate any useful edits e.g. proofs pre edits final cuts etc. . The directors and designers can work with editors to prepare the footage e.g. decide on cuts transitions effects etc. generate and apply effects e.g. compose and synchronize music and sound effects composite computer graphics and special effects adjust lighting and or other aspects of footage etc. etc.

The edits can be assessed during an approval phase by the directors and auditors . For example footage can be checked for technical issues e.g. shot consistency clarity of lighting and sound etc. and or other issues e.g. how closely the edits satisfy the initial concept and rules etc. . If the edits are not approved footage can be re cut or otherwise modified by returning to the post production phase or potentially back to the asset gathering phase . When edits are finally approved they can be stored as a master. The master can be rendered in a rendering phase by rendering experts . For example the master can be converted to desired formats final edits e.g. clean ups can be applied etc.

Each phase involves a number of types of expertise and that expertise is often provided by many different types of production experts e.g. writers directors designers equipment operators editors auditors renderers etc. Accordingly production expertise is typically used across the workflow which can be expensive difficult to schedule difficult to repeat e.g. when footage is gathered at different times and or in different locations etc. Further returning to a phase e.g. for re shooting re editing etc. can involve re calling corresponding experts and potentially repeating later phases of the workflow.

Additionally though large numbers of copies and can often be generated from the master the output of the traditional workflow is still typically a single set of master footage. For example while the master can be re cut for a director s cut version an extended version a made for TV version a trailer etc. the versions are merely re edits e.g. re cuts etc. of the same footage effects etc. Any appreciable change to the single video output typically involves calling back actors designers equipment operators and or others for a new asset gathering phase to re shoot and or add footage . Even then generating a new master can involve calling back expertise and re performing tasks of the post production phase the approval phase and or the rendering phase .

Turning now to a flow diagram is shown of a novel video production workflow according to various embodiments. The workflow is illustrated in a similar format to that of the traditional workflow shown in for the sake of clarity and to highlight certain differences. For example as in the workflow of includes a number of phases and illustrates some typical input expertise to those phases and outputs from those phases and similar names of phases and expertise are used for the sake of simplicity. However the traditional workflow and the novel workflow are intended to be simplified and illustrative and should not be construed as limiting other embodiments discussed herein.

As with a traditional workflow embodiments of the workflow starts with a concept phase when a concept is generated by concept designers for a video production. In some implementations the concept manifests as a script or screenplay with various types of high level concept objectives like branding objectives business rules interactivity rules production rules etc. In the traditional workflow of production experts are used throughout the remaining phases of the workflow to convert the concept into a basic storyboard and ultimately to a single master video production . In the novel workflow most or all of the production expertise and corresponding production experts are front loaded to a storyboarding phase . Rather than developing a traditional basic storyboard the output of the storyboard phase is a data rich storyboard for example as described above with reference to .

During the storyboard phase expertise of writers directors designers equipment operators editors renderers and or any other suitable individuals or entities collaborate to perform tasks of a modified pre production phase and a modified post production phase as well as additional tasks. For example the rich storyboard is designed with a sequence of storybeats each associated with a number of specifications including asset selections asset gathering specifications asset auditing specifications production specifications etc. The specifications define low level details of how subsequent phases of the workflow will proceed while attempting faithfully to represent the high level concepts and rules. Most or all of the specifications are stored in the rich storyboard as computer readable specifications that facilitate fully or partially automated execution of subsequent phases of the workflow.

Once the rich storyboard is created subsequent phases are directed by the specifications of the rich storyboard . An asset gathering phase can proceed in which asset gathering asset approval and or other specifications from the rich storyboard are used to direct acquisition of shared and individualized assets from one or more storymakers . This can be accomplished without the presence of directors designers and others as their expertise is captured in the rich storyboard . Acquired assets and or partial or completed storybeats can be audited in an approval phase . The approval is directed by specifications of the rich storyboard though it may be fully or partially automated e.g. with the help of auditors in various implementations. For example various production experts and or others can predefine acceptance criteria in the storyboard phase for use in automatically and or manually auditing acquired assets storybeats etc. In some implementations the storymaker can be coached through repeated takes to provide the desired asset data until the provided data can be approved.

Approved storybeats can then be rendered in a rendering phase according to production specifications of the rich storyboard . For example rendering experts can determine how storybeats should interface with rendering techniques and instructions e.g. application programming interface API instructions etc. in the storyboard phase before any of the storybeats are actually acquired. In some implementations the rendered videos are also approved before being finalized. For example rendering settings can be adjusted e.g. manually and or automatically at the approval stage. Rather than expertise being spread over the workflow to produce a single master video production the illustrated novel workflow front loads the expertise to produce a rich storyboard from which many individualized video products storyvine videos can be generated according to a common set of concepts rules etc.

For the sake of illustration suppose a traditional basic storyboard includes a shot in which a supporter of an organization stands in front of a building and speaks about why they choose to give their support. According to a traditional workflow various production experts might set up a location to look like the storyboard shot film the scene edit the scene add elements to the scene e.g. overlay graphics add sound etc. approve the scene etc. Additional effort and expertise can then be used to add the scene to other scenes and to render a final video production. If the organization later desires to make a similar video for a different supporter various production experts might once again set up a location to look like the storyboard shot film the new scene edit the new scene add elements to the new scene approve the new scene add the new scene to other scenes and re render a final video production.

The rich storyboard in addition to providing basic layout and guidance can include computer readable specifications that define how to interactively coach the supporter through providing the video footage to conform with the concept and rules how to automatically determine whether to approve or deny provided assets e.g. video footage and other materials how to add and lay out elements in each scene how to transition between scenes how to edit and render the scenes etc. For example before the supporter is contacted to provide video footage a rich storyboard is already created with the production expertise effectively embedded therein. A coaching application can use specifications from the rich storyboard to interactively coach the supporter through providing the desired footage including for example where to stand where to place the camera how loudly to speak for how long to speak and the like. In some implementations the specifications of the rich storyboard are communicated to one or more systems to automatically direct editing of the scene building of the scene e.g. adding elements etc. approving the scene adding the scene to other scenes rendering a final video production including the scene etc. For example an editor specifies in computer readable form in the rich storyboard how each scene should be edited before all the assets of all the scenes have been acquired. If the organization later desires to make a similar video for a new supporter the coaching application can acquire the new footage from that new supporter. By acquiring and auditing the new footage according to the same specifications from the rich storyboard the new footage can be cohesively added into the production framework defined by the rich storyboard . Accordingly an additional video production can be generated e.g. automatically to include the new footage with little or no additional support from production experts .

The storymaker assets and other assets are audited in the approval phase according to specifications of the rich storyboard . Storybeats can be combined into a storyvine which can be rendered into one or more first storyvine video productions in the first rendering phase according to production and or other specifications of the rich storyboard . In some implementations the approval phase is actually a series of approval phases. For example assets can be automatically approved according to approval criteria specified by the rich storyboard after which they can be turned into their respective storybeats according to editing production and or other specifications of the rich storyboard . The storybeats can also be audited in an approval phase e.g. storybeats with individualized storybeat assets can be audited individually or as a group manually or automatically before being used to generate a full storyvine. The storyvine can also be audited prior to being rendered and the rendered storyvine video production can also be audited. Each approval phase can differ regarding whether it is fully or partially manual or automated which individuals entities or systems have permission to audit at that phase etc.

As described above the single rich storyboard can be used to acquire individualized storybeat asset data from many storymakers and to render many corresponding individualized video productions that conform to a common concept. In this way the rich storyboard its associated high level concepts and rules and its low level specifications can all be generated independently from e.g. and even prior to acquisition of any individualized storybeat asset data that are part of final rendered storyvine video productions generated from the rich storyboard

Further in some embodiments the gathered asset data even individualized storybeat asset data can also exist independently from the rich storyboard criteria and context under which it was first acquired. Each storybeat asset can be stored with an associated rich metadata stack that can define any desired information that defines the asset describes its attributes etc. Accordingly both shared and individualized storybeat assets can be used in multiple contexts within a particular storyboard or among multiple storyboards.

For the sake of illustration a second workflow begins at a second storyboarding phase where a second data rich storyboard is generated. For example the second rich storyboard is generated by the same agency but according to a different concept. Again the rich storyboard defines specifications that drive second asset gathering phase a second approval phase and a second rendering phase . In some implementations all the individualized assets of the second rich storyboard are taken from the pool of storymaker assets acquired for the first rich storyboard . For example some or all of the individualized footage is re cut and laid out in different sequences and graphical contexts according to a second storyvine concept and associated rich storyboard

An asset gathering phase may still occur during which shared and or other assets are acquired and or generated. Those new assets can be audited e.g. automatically in the second approval phase before using them to generate associated second storybeats . The second storybeats including the individualized assets acquired during the first asset gathering phase can be audited according to criteria of the second rich storyboard in the second approval phase . Again the storybeats can be combined into a new storyvine which can be rendered into one or more second storyvine video productions in the second rendering phase according to production and or other specifications of the rich storyboard

Suppose that a restaurant desires to have a number of videos on its website. Some desired videos are videos of servers and other employees talking about themselves about their interests outside the restaurant and about why they like working at the restaurant. The video concept is to look like a casual interview on the sidewalk outside the restaurant with consistent branding elements e.g. color schemes logo placement intro and outro splash graphics etc. an minimal additional screen graphics during the interview portions. The desired effect is a highly individualized minimally produced look that still expresses a cohesive strong brand. Another desired video for the website is a general advertisement for the restaurant which includes short segments from selected employee interview videos surrounded by lots of professional graphics and other informational elements. The desired effect is a highly produced look with strong marketing focus that maintains just enough of the casual feel from the employee interview videos. The first set of employee videos could be generated according to the first workflow and relevant individualized assets could be reused in the second workflow to generate the restaurant advertisement video.

The rich storyboard defines various types of specifications for example in computer readable form. The specifications can effectively embody the high level storyvine concept and rules while providing workflow direction at a very detailed level. Embodiments of the rich storyboard define coaching specifications asset gathering specifications asset approval specifications roles specifications production specifications and or any other suitable specifications. For example asset gathering specifications can define what shared individualized and or other storybeat asset data is desired including defining the assets and any useful attributes in support of acquiring generating and using the assets. Coaching specifications can define for each individualized storybeat asset information to provide coaches and or the asset coach subsystem for interactively guiding a storymaker through providing desired storybeat asset data .

Embodiments of the asset coach subsystem provides interactive coaching to storymakers to provide individualized storybeat asset data according to the coaching specifications and asset gathering specifications . In some implementations the asset coach subsystem is an application of a computational system that has a pool of coaching assets e.g. standard wizard layouts standard virtual coaches etc. and coaching application programming specifications e.g. application programming interface API command sets . The coaching assets and coaching application programming specifications provide a framework within which to build an interactive coaching environment for acquiring any desired individualized storybeat asset data. Using this framework and the coaching specifications and asset gathering specifications from the rich storyboard a full coaching environment can be built in the asset coach subsystem . In some implementations the coaching specifications and asset gathering specifications are provided in a computer readable format that conforms with the coaching assets and coaching application programming specifications so that the asset coach subsystem can build the coaching interface automatically with little or no manual intervention. In other implementations building of the coaching interface involves some human intervention for example including design and or programming of coaching assets interface elements wizard layouts etc.

Some implementations of the asset coach subsystem use only virtual coaches e.g. standard recordings of live coaches stored as part of the coaching assets coaching assets generated as part of the storyboarding phase and communicated as part of the coaching specifications computer generated coaches etc. . Other implementations additionally or alternatively use live interactive coaching. For example a live text and or video chat interface is provided as part of the coaching interface that allows the storymaker to interact live with an individual coach e.g. and the coach is directed by human readable coaching specifications from the rich storyboard . Some embodiments of the asset coach subsystem operate further according to roles specifications of the rich storyboard . For example the roles specifications can govern or guide who can be a storymaker or coach for a particular storybeat asset.

For the sake of illustration shows a screenshot from a coaching interface of an illustrative asset coach subsystem for use with various embodiments. The coaching interface may be implemented on a tablet computer that includes or is coupled with a video camera. The coaching interface includes a number of regions each having various interactive elements. One illustrative region is a storybeat sequence and status region that includes a number of storybeat icons . The storybeat icons provide an overview of the sequence of storybeats in the rich storyboard and the status of each storybeat in the sequence. For example storybeat icon indicates that Storybeat has been acquired illustrated by a thumbnail image of a portion of the data and approved illustrated by a checkmark in the storybeat icon storybeat icon indicates that Storybeat has no associated individualized storybeat asset data to acquire and storybeat icon indicates that Storybeat is the storybeat for which associated individualized storybeat asset data is presently being acquired.

Another illustrative region is an interactive asset acquisition region . The interactive asset acquisition region can include any interactive elements for acquiring the desired asset data according to the asset gathering specifications coaching specifications etc. In the illustrated scenario the desired storybeat asset is a short video that features a frontal close up view of an employee storymaker standing in front of the Joe s Shop building introducing himself. The interactive asset acquisition region includes a number of illustrative interactive coaching elements to help guide the storymaker to provide the desired input. One such interactive coaching element is a camera positioning guide . The camera positioning guide can be a thick outline of a hypothetical storymaker s head and shoulders that is sized and positioned so that when the camera is positioned properly the featured storymaker s head and shoulders will substantially match the outline of the hypothetical storymaker s head and shoulders as illustrated . In this way the storymaker or whoever is acquiring the footage can intuitively know that the camera is an appropriate distance angle etc. with respect to the featured storymaker. Another such interactive coaching element is a content guide . The content guide can be text or some other prompt to help inform the storymaker of the type of content desired. The illustrative content guide is a text box giving general guidance to the storymaker Smile Look into the camera. Tell us your first name and what you do here. 

As discussed above any camera positioning guides content guides and or other types of interactive coaching elements are generated according to specifications of the rich storyboard . For example the specifications include instructions written in a format that can be interpreted according to coaching APIs of the asset coaching application to automatically generate the camera positioning guide in the interactive asset acquisition region when data for the respective storybeat is being acquired. It is worth noting that as in the illustrated scenario it can be desirable to generate storybeats as small logical segments of desired information e.g. rather than as long format videos etc. . This can allow desired information to be acquired in fewer takes by inexperienced storymakers facilitate re use of the storybeat in other contexts etc.

Another illustrative region is a coach region . As illustrated the coach region can include audio and or video of a live or virtual coach talking the storymaker through providing appropriate information. The coach region can display pre recorded information e.g. a pre recorded video of a coach telling the storymaker what to provide a pre recorded example of appropriate content to provide for the asset etc. live information e.g. a live audio and or video chat interface and or any other suitable information. As discussed above the coach region can be built automatically and or manually using specifications from the rich storyboard coaching assets coaching APIs etc.

Still other illustrative regions are navigation regions . The navigation regions can include any useful buttons controls and or other interactive elements for navigating the coaching interface asset acquisition etc. As illustrated navigation controls are distributed around and within the various other regions. For example below the interactive asset acquisition region and the coach region is a set of navigation buttons for accessing files seeking help recording data playing back data adjusting camera settings and the like. In some implementations some or all of the navigation regions are common across all coaching interfaces for all storybeats for example according to coaching assets coaching APIs and or other properties of the asset coaching application. In other implementations some or all of the navigation regions are configurable by the storymaker according for example to application preferences. According to still other implementations some or all of the navigation regions are generated automatically according to specifications of the rich storyboard .

Returning to the output of the asset coach subsystem is storybeat data . According to some embodiments the storybeat data includes storybeat assets and associated asset metadata . In one example a storybeat asset is a video of a storymaker introducing herself. Some asset metadata can be acquired or derived from the rich storyboard such as associated asset gathering specifications asset approval specifications production specifications storymaker information e.g. which storymaker is associated with the acquired asset demographics or affiliations of the storymaker etc. etc. Other asset metadata can be acquired or derived from the asset gathering and or approval phases such as status e.g. whether the asset has been acquired and approved acquired attributes e.g. actual duration color information resolution size format etc. tracking information e.g. how many takes occurred prior to approval of the asset data how much virtual and or live coaching was used etc. etc.

The storybeat data can be communicated to an asset audit subsystem . In some implementations the asset audit subsystem is an automated system that automatically audits the storybeat data according to asset approval specifications from the rich storyboard . For example the asset audit subsystem can check whether a video asset is of proper resolution duration brightness format composition etc. Additional processing e.g. image voice and or other recognition techniques can be used to determine whether the video asset includes desired content includes impermissible content e.g. copyrighted material inappropriate language or other material statements prohibited by law or business rules etc. etc. In other implementations the asset audit subsystem involves human auditors. Embodiments of the asset audit subsystem can be implemented as part of the asset coach subsystem on the same device as the asset coach subsystem remotely from the asset coach subsystem e.g. as part of an agency system over a public or private network as part of a cloud based application over the Internet etc. or in any other suitable manner.

If the storybeat data is not approved the asset audit subsystem can permit or instruct the storymaker to provide the storybeat data again. In some implementations the asset audit subsystem indicates to the asset coach subsystem that the storybeat data was not approved and the coaching interface of the asset coach subsystem is updated accordingly. For example the asset coach subsystem displays some or all of the individualized storybeat assets to be acquired through the asset coach subsystem and indicates which ones have been acquires which have been approved etc. In another example when a storymaker finishes an attempt at inputting storybeat data e.g. shoots a take of a video segment the data is automatically validated or the storymaker can select via the coaching interface to have the data validated via the asset audit subsystem . If the data is not validated the storymaker is informed and prompted to try again.

If the storybeat data is approved it can be communicated to the storyvine render subsystem . The storyvine render subsystem is operable to render the storybeat data according to production specifications of the rich storyboard. In some embodiments the storyvine render subsystem includes render application programming specifications e.g. APIs and the production specifications are configured to direct rendering of storybeat data via the render application programming specifications . In some embodiments the storyvine render subsystem can generate pre rendered storybeats . For example rather than rendering a complete storyvine video at full quality proofs can be generated of particular storybeats e.g. those including individualized storybeat assets . The pre rendered storybeats can be communicated to the storyvine audit subsystem for approval according to the asset approval specifications of the rich storyboard . In some implementations the pre rendering functionality is collocated with the asset coach subsystem . For example the asset coach subsystem is an application of a storymaker device that includes pre rendering functionality for use by the storymaker for self auditing by the asset audit subsystem for auditing the asset data in context by the storyvine audit subsystem for auditing as a completed storybeat etc. In other implementations the pre rendering functionality is separate from the asset coach subsystem for example as part of an agency server a cloud based system etc.

If the storybeat data is approved other embodiments communicate the data to the storyvine render subsystem for rendering of a complete storyvine video . In some such embodiments the rendered video is first generated as a pre approved storyvine video . The pre approved storyvine video is communicated to the storyvine audit subsystem for approval according to the asset approval specifications automatically and or manually by auditors . The pre approved storyvine video can be a rough version full quality version or any other useful version. Once approved the video production can be considered as e.g. or re rendered as a final approved storyvine video .

If the pre approved storyvine video is not approved various options can be taken. For example the storyvine render subsystem can re render the data according to modified specifications e.g. which may be manually adjusted or automatically adjusted according to specifications rules or parameters of the rich storyboard new or replacement assets can be selected as storybeat data e.g. from a pool of assets etc. individualized storybeat data can be reacquired via the asset coach subsystem etc. Because assets are acquired edited generated approved rendered and or otherwise handled according to specifications of the rich storyboard disapproval of pre rendered storybeats or pre approved storyvine videos can indicate a desired change in the rich storyboard itself. For example specifications of the rich storyboard can be adjusted to direct re rendering reacquisition re approval and or other re handling of the storybeat data . In this way all subsequent storyvine videos generated from the adjusted rich storyboard will satisfy the updated specifications.

In some implementations the final storyvine videos are effectively static e.g. non interactive outputs like standard video files for display through a video player or the like. In other implementations the final storyvine videos are rendered with embedded dynamic and or interactive functionality. Dynamic functionality can permit the storyvine videos to dynamically adapt to implicit and or explicit inputs from an end viewer player application end viewer system etc. For example portions of the storyvine videos can dynamically change based on the geographical location of the end viewer time of day player attributes e.g. browser type display type display size connection speed etc. related contextual information e.g. current stock market conditions etc. or any other suitable information. In one illustrative example a real estate brokerage outputs storyvine videos built from asset data that includes introduction videos from hundreds of agents but dynamically selects 3 of those agent introduction videos depending on demographic information of the end viewer. In certain embodiments the dynamic functionality is realized by adjusting rendering parameters e.g. production specifications of the rich storyboard so that the storyvine render subsystem can dynamically render the storyvine videos according to the dynamically changing parameters. In other embodiments the dynamic functionality is embedded in the rendered output e.g. as embedded code . For example a storyvine video is rendered for playback through a web browser interface and has browser readable code embedded therein for dynamically affecting the displayed video according to dynamically received implicit and or explicit input data.

Some implementations support interactive functionality in the rendered storyvine videos . The storyvine videos can include embedded prompts and or the like and can be operable to respond to those prompts. In one illustrative implementation a storyvine videos includes a branching storyline that responds to selections by an end viewer. In another illustrative implementation a storyvine video includes link portal or other functionality through which end viewers can provide their own video information e.g. their own individualized storybeat asset data . For example a professor creates a storyvine video that includes video footage of him performing a demonstration of a technique asking the students a series of questions and soliciting a video response from the students. The video can then provide a link or other mechanism through which the students can provide their video responses. The video responses can be handled by embodiments as new storyvine videos as new individualized storybeat asset data for the present storyvine video or in any useful way. The video responses can also be tagged with an association to the professor s video with the student names with timestamp information etc. The dynamic and or interactive functionality of various embodiments can further be fed back to one or more systems or subsystems to affect any of their respective input or output information e.g. business rules coaching specifications asset gathering specifications etc. .

The computational system is shown including hardware elements that can be electrically coupled via a bus . The hardware elements can include one or more central processing units CPUs one or more input devices e.g. a video or still camera a mouse a keyboard etc. and one or more output devices e.g. a display device a printer etc. . The computational system can also include one or more storage devices . By way of example storage device s can be disk drives optical storage devices solid state storage device such as a random access memory RAM and or a read only memory ROM which can be programmable flash updateable and or the like. In some embodiments the storage devices are configured to store specifications received from the rich storyboard not shown generated storybeat data and the like as described above.

The computational system can additionally include a computer readable storage media reader a communications system e.g. a modem a network card wireless or wired or chipset an infra red communication device etc. and working memory which can include RAM and ROM devices as described above. In some embodiments the computational system can also include a processing acceleration unit which can include a DSP a special purpose processor and or the like.

The computer readable storage media reader can further be connected to a computer readable storage medium together and optionally in combination with storage device s comprehensively representing remote local fixed and or removable storage devices plus storage media for temporarily and or more permanently containing computer readable information. The communications system can permit data to be exchanged with a public or private network e.g. network and or any other system. For example as described above rich storyboard specifications can be communicated between components or subsystems of the storymaker system and components or subsystems of the agency system via the communications system e.g. and via the network .

The computational system can also include software elements shown as being currently located within a working memory including an operating system and or other code such as an application program which can be a client application web browser mid tier application relational database management system RDBMS etc. . In some embodiments one or more functions of the storymaker system are implemented as application code in working memory . As illustrated the asset coach subsystem and or the asset audit subsystem can be implemented as applications in working memory of the storymaker system . Each of these applications can also include various stored information such as APIs and the like.

It should be appreciated that alternate embodiments of a computational system can have numerous variations from that described above. For example customized hardware might also be used and or particular elements might be implemented in hardware software including portable software such as applets or both. Further connection to other computing devices such as network input output devices can be employed. In various embodiments a computational system like the one illustrated in is used to implement one or more functions of the storymaker system and the computational system is in communication with other functional components as needed or desired. In other embodiments computational systems like the one illustrated in are used to implement one or more methods of the system such as those described below.

At stage storybeat asset data is acquired for each storybeat according to the specifications of the rich storyboard. For example and asset coaching subsystem and an asset audit subsystem can be generated e.g. built automatically according to the rich storyboard specifications and associated APIs and or pre generated assets. The asset coaching subsystem and an asset audit subsystem can be used to acquire and approve any individualized storybeat asset data from storymakers according to the specifications of the rich storyboard e.g. via a coaching interface through which individualized storybeat asset data is acquired in an interactively coached manner . In some instances the rich storyboard is used to generate multiple storyvine video productions according to common specifications but having individualized data from multiple storymakers. For example each of a number of storymakers can provide individualized storybeat asset data for each of a number of storybeats serially in parallel or in any other suitable manner. Accordingly embodiments of stage acquire storybeat asset data for each storybeat for each of a number of storymakers e.g. through one or more versions of the coaching interface .

At stage the acquired storybeat asset data can be audited e.g. approved checked validated etc. according to the specifications of the rich storyboard. The auditing can be performed as storybeat asset data is being acquired after each storybeat asset is finalized by the storymaker e.g. on request from a storymaker after the storymaker is satisfied by the provided asset data after all individualized asset data for a storybeat or an entire storyvine is collected or at any other useful time. Further in some implementations the auditing is performed in a completely automated manner according to asset approval specifications of the rich storyboard. In other implementations some or all of the auditing is performed manually e.g. by an approved auditor according to roles specifications . For example individualized storybeat asset data for certain storybeats can be automatically audited first and then verified by a human auditor.

Some embodiments handle acquisition and auditing at the asset level e.g. according to stages and and rendering and final approval at the storyvine level e.g. according to stages and as described below . Other embodiments of the method perform certain functions at the storybeat level e.g. according to stages and . According to such embodiments at stage storybeats are generated e.g. partially or fully rendered at full or partial quality according to their corresponding acquired and audited storybeat asset data and specifications of the rich storyboard. For example all the assets of a particular storybeat are acquired and pre rendered as a rough cut or the like . At stage each storybeat can be audited according to specifications of the rich storyboard. For example manual and or automatic auditing can be performed to make sure the storybeat conforms to the rich storyboard specifications and or its formative concept and rules. If not this stage can permit earlier detection of undesirable results in time to more easily reacquire individualized asset data re generate or reacquire shared or other assets adjust storyboard specifications etc.

Regardless of whether the method includes storybeat level functionality storybeat data can be rendered into storyvine videos at stage according to specifications of the rich storyboard and rendering application programming specifications. For example production specifications render APIs and or other information is used to automatically render the storyvine video. As described above the specifications can drive storybeat sequences asset placements scene transitions audio synchronization dynamic asset generation e.g. where shared assets automatically adjust according to acquired individualized asset data and or any other useful aspects of rendering e.g. including post production editing re colorizing formatting up or down converting etc. . In some embodiments at stage the storyvine videos e.g. each storyvine video is audited according to specifications of the rich storyboard. If a video is not approved embodiments may return to a suitable stage such as to regenerate or reacquire particular assets at stage to regenerate a particular one or more individual storybeats at stage etc.

Some embodiments focus on acquisition of individualized storybeat asset data for example according to stage . shows a flow diagram of such a method according to various embodiments. Embodiments of the method can be implemented on any suitable system for example on a storymaker system like the ones described above with reference to . Embodiments begin at stage by identifying a computer readable rich storyboard that defines production specifications and a sequence of storybeats for use in a number of video productions. Each storybeat has a set of storybeat assets a first portion of the storybeat assets being shared storybeat assets associated with shared asset data and a second portion of the storybeat assets being individualized storybeat assets associated with asset acquisition specifications. For example a particular storybeat includes a video of a storymaker introducing himself. The video segment is an individualized storybeat asset while surrounding graphics e.g. logos frames etc. background audio and or other elements of the scene are shared storybeat assets. If many videos are taken of many storymakers they will all have unique video segment content but the same or substantially the same surrounding elements.

At stage a computer implemented asset acquisition coach is generated to be operable for each individualized storybeat asset to acquire individualized asset data according to its asset gathering specifications. For example the computer implemented asset acquisition coach can be an application that provides an interactive coaching interface e.g. like the one described in . At stage individualized asset data is received for each individualized storybeat asset via the computer implemented asset acquisition coach. In some implementations the individualized asset data is received for each individualized storybeat asset via a graphical user interface GUI designed to coach a storymaker to provide the individualized asset data associated with the individualized storybeat asset according to its asset gathering specifications e.g. an interactive coaching interface . The individualized asset data associated with the individualized storybeat asset can be received from the storymaker via the GUI. In some embodiments the GUI is built e.g. automatically from asset gathering specifications predefined coaching assets coaching APIs and or any other useful information.

In some implementations as described above receiving the individualized asset data includes auditing the individualized asset data to determine whether the asset data conforms with the asset gathering specifications. For example the rich storyboard further defines acceptance specifications associated with each individualized storybeat asset. The acceptance specifications can be derived from or separate from the asset gathering specifications. When the asset data conforms with the asset gathering specifications the asset data can be stored or tagged etc. in association with the individualized asset the storymaker the agency or any other useful information. When the asset data does not conform with the asset gathering specifications the asset data can be discarded stored for tracking purposes or handled in any suitable manner. In some embodiments when the asset data does not conform the method can attempt to re acquire the asset data until conforming data is received.

In some implementations a separate set of individualized asset data for the individualized storybeat assets is received from and in association with each of a plurality of storymakers via the computer implemented asset acquisition coach. For example each storymaker s assets are acquired and tagged e.g. stored in associated with an identifier of the storymaker e.g. received through the interface as part of asset acquisition as part of a login process etc. . Some embodiments include a corresponding version of the computer implemented asset acquisition coach for each storymaker. For example each storymaker sees a customized version of the coaching interface e.g. according to the storymaker s preferences etc. . Alternatively each version fo the asset acquisition coach is substantially the same though implemented on the each storymaker s device. The set of individualized asset data for the individualized storybeat assets can be received from and in association with each of the plurality of storymakers via the corresponding version of the computer implemented asset acquisition coach.

At stage the individualized asset data for each individualized storybeat asset is communicated to a rendering system in such a way that a video production can be rendered according to the sequence of storybeats with each shared storybeat asset being rendered according to the production specifications and its associated shared asset data and each individualized storybeat asset being rendered according to the production specifications and its associated individualized asset data.

As described above e.g. with reference to the method of some embodiments render the video production according to the sequence of storybeats for each storymaker. The rendering can be performed so that each video production is common according to the sequence of storybeats and the production specifications of the rich storyboard and each video production is individualized according to the set of individualized asset data received in association with the respective storymaker. In certain implementations the rendered video productions can be audited according to storyvine approval specifications defined by the rich storyboard.

The methods disclosed herein include one or more actions for achieving the described method. The method and or actions can be interchanged with one another without departing from the scope of the claims. In other words unless a specific order of actions is specified the order and or use of specific actions can be modified without departing from the scope of the claims.

The various operations of methods and functions of certain system components described above can be performed by any suitable means capable of performing the corresponding functions including for example hardware and or software. The steps of a method or algorithm or other functionality described in connection with the present disclosure can be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. A software module can reside in any form of tangible storage medium. Some examples of storage media that can be used include random access memory RAM read only memory ROM flash memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers a hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM and so forth. A storage medium can be coupled to a processor such that the processor can read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium can be integral to the processor.

A software module can be a single instruction or many instructions and can be distributed over several different code segments among different programs and across multiple storage media. Thus a computer program product can perform operations presented herein. For example such a computer program product can be a computer readable tangible medium having instructions tangibly stored and or encoded thereon the instructions being executable by one or more processors to perform the operations described herein. The computer program product can include packaging material. Software or instructions can also be transmitted over a transmission medium. For example software can be transmitted from a website server or other remote source using a transmission medium such as a coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair digital subscriber line DSL or wireless technology such as infrared radio or microwave.

Other examples and implementations are within the scope and spirit of the disclosure and appended claims. For example features implementing functions can also be physically located at various positions including being distributed such that portions of functions are implemented at different physical locations. Also as used herein including in the claims or as used in a list of items prefaced by at least one of indicates a disjunctive list such that for example a list of at least one of A B or C means A or B or C or AB or AC or BC or ABC i.e. A and B and C . Further the term exemplary does not mean that the described example is preferred or better than other examples.

Various changes substitutions and alterations to the techniques described herein can be made without departing from the technology of the teachings as defined by the appended claims. Moreover the scope of the disclosure and claims is not limited to the particular aspects of the process machine manufacture composition of matter means methods and actions described above. Processes machines manufacture compositions of matter means methods or actions presently existing or later to be developed that perform substantially the same function or achieve substantially the same result as the corresponding aspects described herein can be utilized. Accordingly the appended claims include within their scope such processes machines manufacture compositions of matter means methods or actions.

