---

title: Device for managing operations of accessories
abstract: A system that incorporates teachings of the present disclosure may include, for example, an apparatus having a processor to detect a gaming accessory stimulation associated with a programmable layer of a number of programmable layers. The processor identifies a substitute gaming accessory stimulation of the programmable layer of the number of programmable layers of the gaming accessory. The substitute gaming accessory stimulation of the programmable layer is associated with the gaming accessory stimulation of the programmable layer of the number of programmable layers, according to a user profile of a number of user profiles associated with a user account. Other predetermined associations of stimulations of the gaming accessory with other substitute accessory stimulations are recorded in other user profiles of the number of user profiles, and the substitute gaming accessory stimulation is provided to a computing device to manage a gaming software application. Additional embodiments are disclosed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09492745&OS=09492745&RS=09492745
owner: STEELSERIES APS
number: 09492745
owner_city: Frederiksberg
owner_country: DK
publication_date: 20151117
---
This application is a continuation of and claims priority to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 555 064 filed Nov. 26 2014 by Wolff Petersen et al. which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 509 509 filed Jul. 27 2009 by Wolff Petersen et al. entitled Device for Managing Operations of Accessories issued as U.S. Pat. No. 8 956 234. All sections of the aforementioned application s are incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

The present disclosure relates generally to accessory management applications and more specifically to a device for managing operations of accessories.

It is common today for gamers to utilize more than one gaming accessory. This is especially true of gamers who play Massively Multiplayer On line MMO games in a team or individual configuration. Gamers can have at their disposal accessories such as a keyboard a general purpose gaming pad a mouse a gaming console controller a headset with a built in microphone to communicate with other players a joystick a computer console or other common gaming accessories.

A gamer can frequently use a combination of these accessories in one game e.g. headset a keyboard and mouse . Efficient management and utilization of these accessories can frequently impact a gamer s ability to compete.

Accessory management can have utility in other disciplines which may not relate to gaming applications. Efficient use of accessories in these other disciplines can be important to users.

One embodiment of the present disclosure can entail an apparatus having a controller to record an association of at least one of a plurality of stimulations that can be generated by a gaming accessory with one or more substitute accessory stimulations establish communications with a computing device communicatively coupled to a gaming software application establish communications with the gaming accessory receive from the gaming accessory a stimulation detect a match between the association and the received stimulation retrieve the one or more substitute accessory stimulations and transmit the one or more substitute accessory stimulations to the gaming software application.

One embodiment of the present disclosure can entail a computer readable storage medium operating in a portable apparatus that manages accessory stimulations supplied to a computing device by a gaming accessory. The storage medium can have computer instructions to receive from the gaming accessory a stimulation retrieve one or more substitute accessory stimulations and transmit the one or more substitute accessory stimulations to the computing device to manage operations of a gaming software application communicatively coupled to the computing device.

One embodiment of the present disclosure can entail receiving a stimulation from a gaming accessory replacing the stimulation with one or more substitute accessory stimulations and transmitting the one or more substitute accessory stimulations to a computing device to manage a gaming software application communicatively coupled to the computing device.

One embodiment of the present disclosure can entail a gaming accessory having a controller to detect a selection of an input function and transmit a stimulus to an apparatus that transmits one or more substitute accessory stimulations to a computer system or gaming console for controlling operations of a gaming software application.

One embodiment of the present disclosure can entail a computing device having a controller to receive from an apparatus one or more substitute accessory stimulations to control operations of a gaming software application. The apparatus is can be operable to receive a stimulation from a gaming accessory replace the stimulation with the one or more substitute stimulations and transmit the one or more substitute stimulations to the computing device.

One embodiment of the present disclosure can entail receiving a stimulation from an accessory replacing the stimulation with one or more substitute accessory stimulations and transmitting the one or more substitute accessory stimulations to a computing device to manage operation of a software application communicatively coupled to the computing device.

The UI can include a display such as monochrome or color LCD Liquid Crystal Display OLED Organic Light Emitting Diode or other suitable display technology for conveying images such as a menu for programming operational parameters of the apparatus . The UI can also include a notification device . The notification device can use common illumination technology such as an LED or OLED shown as reference in to inform a user of an operational state of the apparatus . The notification device can be adapted to present two or more states of operation by way of light and or color illumination. For example the notification device can indicate the apparatus has been programmed is in operation is communicatively engaged with the gaming accessory or gaming console is receiving power and so on according to varying color illuminations.

The apparatus can have a power supply which utilizes common power management technologies such as replaceable and rechargeable batteries supply regulation technologies and charging system technologies for supplying energy to the components of the apparatus . Alternatively the charging system can utilize external power sources such as DC power supplied over a physical interface such as a USB port. Other power supply technologies suitable to the present disclosure are contemplated.

The controller can utilize computing technologies such as a microprocessor and or an Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC operably coupled to memory such a Flash ROM RAM SRAM DRAM or combinations thereof.

Other components not shown in are contemplated by the present disclosure. For instance the apparatus can include a reset button not shown . The reset button can be used to reset the controller of the apparatus . In yet another embodiment the apparatus can also include a factory default setting button positioned below a small hole in a housing assembly of the apparatus to force the apparatus to re establish factory settings. In this embodiment a user can use a protruding object such as a pen or paper clip tip to reach into the hole and depress the default setting button.

It will be appreciated that the apparatus as described herein can operate with more or less components described in . These variant embodiments are contemplated by the present disclosure.

In the present context an accessory can represent any type of device which can be communicatively coupled to the computing device and which can control aspects of the OS and or a software application operating in the computing device. An accessory can represent for example a keyboard a gaming pad a mouse a gaming console controller a joystick a microphone or a headset with a microphone just to mention a few. The keyboard and gaming pad represent accessories of a similar category since their operational parameters are alike.

A mouse on the other hand represents an accessory having disparate operational parameters from the keyboard or gaming pad. For instance the operational parameters of a keyboard generally consist of alphanumeric keys control keys e.g. Shift Alt Ctrl and function keys while the operational parameters of a mouse consist of navigation data generated by a tracking device such as a laser sensor buttons to invoke GUI selections and settings thereof e.g. counts or dots per inch acceleration scroll speed jitter control line straightening control and so on . Such distinctions can be used to identify disparate categories of accessories.

In step the AMS application presents a GUI such as depicted in with operationally distinct accessories such as the keyboard and mouse . The GUI presents the accessories in a scrollable section . One or more accessories can be selected by a user with a common mouse pointer. In this illustration the keyboard and gaming controller were selected with a mouse pointer for customization. Upon selecting the keyboard and mouse in section the AMS application presents the keyboard and mouse in split windows respectively to help the user during the customization process.

In step the AMS application can be programmed to detect a user selection of a particular software application such as a game. This step can be the result of the user entering in a Quick Search field the name of a gaming application e.g. World of Warcraft . Upon identifying a gaming application the AMS application can retrieve in step from a remote or local database gaming application actions which can be presented in a scrollable section of the GUI represented as Actions . The actions can be tactical actions communication actions menu actions and movement actions which can be used to invoke and manage features of the gaming application.

The actions presented descriptively in section of the GUI can represent a sequence of accessory input functions which a user can stimulate by button depressions navigation or speech. For example depressing the left button on the mouse can represent the tactical action Reload while the simultaneous keyboard depressions Ctrl A can represent the tactical action Melee Attack . For ease of use the Actions section of the GUI is presented descriptively rather than by a description of the input function s of a particular accessory.

Any one of the Actions can be associated with one or more input functions of the accessories by way of a simple drag and drop action. For instance a user can select a Melee Attack by placing a mouse pointer over an iconic symbol associated with this action. Upon doing so the symbol can be highlighted to indicate to the user that the icon is selectable. At this point the user can select the icon by holding the left mouse button and drag the symbol to any of the input functions e.g. buttons of the keyboard or gaming controller to make an association with an input function of one of these accessories.

For example the user can drag the Melee Attack symbol to the O button of the gaming controller thereby causing an association between the selection of the O button and the gaming action of a Melee Attack. When the O button of the gaming controller is selected during normal operation the AMS application can detect the selection as a trigger to generate the key sequence Ctrl A which is understood by the gaming application as a request for a Melee Attack. The gaming application receives from the dongle by way of an operating system in the gaming console the Ctrl A sequence as if it had been generated by a Qwerty keyboard.

With this in mind attention is directed to step where the AMS application can respond to a user selection of a profile. A profile can be a device profile or master profile invoked by selecting GUI button or each of which can identify the association of actions with input functions of one or more accessories. If a profile selection is detected in step the AMS application can retrieve in step macro s and or prior associations of actions with the accessories as defined by the profile. The actions and or macros defined in the profile can also be presented in step by the AMS application in the actions column of the GUI to modify or create new associations.

In step the AMS application can also respond to a user selection to create a macro. A macro in the present context can mean any actionable command which can be recorded by the AMS application. An actionable command can represent a sequence of input functions of an accessory identification of a software application to be initiated by an operating system OS or any other recordable stimulus to initiate control or manipulate software applications. For instance a macro can represent a user entering the identity of a software application e.g. instant messaging tool to be initiated by an OS.

A macro can also represent recordable speech delivered by a microphone singly or in combination with a headset for detection by another software application through speech recognition or for delivery of the recorded speech to other parties. In yet another embodiment a macro can represent recordable navigation of an accessory such as a mouse or joystick recordable selections of buttons on a keyboard a mouse or a mouse pad and so on. Macros can also be combinations of the above illustrations. Macros can created from the GUI by selecting a Record Macro button . The macro can be given a name and category in user defined fields and .

Upon selecting the Record Macro button a macro can be generated by selection of input functions on an accessory e.g. Ctrl A speech etc. and or by manual entry in field e.g. typing the name and location of a software application to be initiated by an OS . Once the macro is created it can be tested by selecting button which can repeat the sequence specified in field . The clone button can be selected to replicate the macro sequence if desired. Fields can also present timing characteristics of the stimulation sequence in the macro with the ability to customize such timing. Once the macro has been fully defined selection of button records the macro in step . The recording step can be combined with a step for adding the macro to the associable items Actions column thereby providing the user the means to associate the macro with input functions of the accessories.

In step the AMS application can respond to drag and drop associations between actions and input functions of the keyboard and the gaming controller . If an association is detected the AMS application can proceed to step where it can determine if a profile has been identified in step to record the association s detected. If a profile has been identified the associations are recorded in said profile in step . If a profile has not been identified in step the AMS application can create a profile in step for recording the detected associations. In the same step the user can name the newly created profile as desired. The newly created profile can also be associated with one or more software applications in step for future reference.

Once the association has been recorded in a profile the AMS application can determine in step whether the dongle shown illustratively in is available for programming. If the AMS application detects that the dongle is communicatively coupled to the computer the AMS application can proceed to step of where it submits the profile and its contents to the dongle for recording.

The GUI presented by the AMS application can have other functions. For example the GUI can provide options for layout of the accessory selected button how the keyboard is illuminated when associations between input functions and actions are made button and configuration options for the accessory button . The AMS application can adapt the GUI to present more than one functional perspective. For instance by selecting button the AMS application can adapt the GUI to present a means to create macros and associate actions to accessory input functions as depicted in . Selecting button can cause the AMS application to adapt the GUI to present statistics from raw stimulation information captured by the dongle as will be described below. Selecting button can also cause the AMS application to adapt the GUI to present promotional offers and software updates.

It should be noted that the steps of method in whole or in part can be repeated until a desirable pattern of associations of actions to input functions of the selected accessories has been accomplished. It would be apparent to an artisan with ordinary skill in the art that there can be numerous other approaches to accomplish similar results. These undisclosed approaches are contemplated by the present disclosure.

In step the AMS application can receive instructions describing all or a portion of the input functions of the unknown accessory. These instructions can come from a user who defines each input function individually or responds to inquiries provided by the AMS application. The AMS application can for example make an assumption as to the keyboard layout and highlight each key with a proposed function which the user can verify or modify. Once the AMS application has been provided instructions in step the AMS application can create an accessory identity in step which can be defined by the user. In steps and the AMS application can associate and record the accessory instructions with the identity for future recognition of the accessory. In step the AMS application can present a depiction of the new accessory with its identity along with the other selectable accessories in section .

Method can provide a means for universal detection and identification of any accessory which can be used to control or manage software applications operating in a computing device.

In step the user can be presented by way of a display coupled to the gaming console the profiles available to the user to choose. If the user makes a selection the dongle proceeds to step where it retrieves from the selected profiles the association s stored therein. If a selection is not made the dongle can proceed to step where it can determine from the gaming console if it is actively communicating with a software gaming application operating in the gaming console or operating in a remote system communicatively coupled thereto e.g. on line gaming application . If a gaming software application is detected the dongle proceeds to step where it retrieves the profile that matches the gaming application detected and the association s contained therein. In the present context association s can represent accessory stimulations navigation speech initiation of other application or macros thereof. The accessory stimulations can be stimulations that can be generated by the gaming accessory being used stimulations from other unrelated accessories e.g. a keyboard or combinations thereof.

Once a profile and its contents have been retrieved in either of steps or step the dongle can proceed to step where it monitors stimulations generated by the gaming accessory . The stimulations can be generated by the user by tactile use of the controls of the gaming accessory . If a simulation is detected the dongle can determine in step whether to pass the detected stimulation s to an Operating System OS of the gaming console without alteration in step or with substitutions in steps .

This determination can be made by comparing the detected stimulation s to triggers associated with one or more actions in the profile. If the detected stimulation s match the stimulations identified as triggers then the dongle proceeds to step where it retrieves substitute stimulation s from the triggered action s in the profile. In step the dongle substitutes the detected stimulation s with the substitute stimulations and reports them to the OS of the gaming console . If there is no matches detected in step the dongle transmits in step the detected stimulation to the OS of the gaming console without alteration. In step the OS determines whether to pass the reported stimulations to the gaming software application in step invoke a software application identified in the stimulation s reported in steps or or a combination thereof.

Contemporaneous to the embodiments described above the dongle can record in step statistics or raw data relating to the detected accessory stimulations. A portion of the dongle application can operate as a background process which records statistics and or raw data relating to the stimulations detected. During or after a gaming session a user can direct the dongle to supply the AMS application the recorded data. This transfer can take place by reengaging the dongle with the computer physically or over an air interface such as WiFi.

Once the transfer of recorded data is made the user can select button in which causes the AMS application to present an updated GUI such as shown in which illustrates the usage of input functions of one or more accessories for which stimulations were detected in step of . For ease of illustration assume the gaming accessory of was a keyboard accessory instead of a gaming controller .

In the illustration of certain keys references on the keyboard can be color coded to illustrate the frequency of usage of these keys. A color scale defines the frequency of usage of the input functions of the keyboard. The first end of the scale navy blue represents a single detected depression while an opposite end of the scale bright red represents detected depressions. Based on this scale the AMS application maps by color in step stimulations of the keyboard. For example the key grouping depict a color coding with the highest detectable usage while the F7 key reference indicates the fewest depressions. Keys having zero depressions are not color coded to readily identify the color mapping of keys which were used at least once.

The AMS application provides additional functions in a playback panel of the GUI which can help a user understand how the color coded keys were used during an active software application such as a video game. In this section of the GUI the AMS application can present the user with a playback control function which the user can select to replay pause forward or rewind the usage of these keys. When usage playback is selected the user can for instance see the color coded keys highlighted in real time with a temporary white border to visualize how the keys were selected. A time clock provides the user the elapsed time of the playback sequence. Button allows the user to retrieve statistics from other sessions while button provides the user a means to save statistics from a given session.

The GUI of could have been shown as a split screen with all accessories which generated one or more detected stimulations e.g. keyboard mouse and microphone each providing statistical symbolic results as described above for the keyboard. Although not shown split screen embodiments are contemplated by the present disclosure for the GUI of .

In addition to a symbolic representation as shown in the AMS application can provide the user a means to visualize raw statistics in a table format such as shown in by selecting button . The table format shows raw data in section and possible suggestions in section for improving user performance which can be generated by the AMS application. Section can be presented in a table format with a column identifying the key being analyzed its usage and number of key presses. The user can ascertain from this table the most and least frequently used keys as well as other identifiable patterns.

The AMS application can utilize an understanding of the layout of the accessory in this case the keyboard to determine from the statistics ways that the user can improve response time or ergonomic use. For example the AMS application can determine from a layout analysis that the key combination can be reassigned to a macro based on the trigger which could provide the user a faster response time and free up the user s right hand for other tasks. The AMS application can also provide alternative suggestions. For example the AMS application can also suggest creating single button macros for each of the key combinations and which can be assigned to keys on the keyboard or left and right buttons of a mouse. The latter suggestion of assigning macros to the mouse can help the user free up his her left hand.

The AMS application can utilize present and next generation algorithms to determine how to improve response times and ergonomic usage of accessory devices. The AMS application can for example have at its disposal an understanding of the layout of each accessory the type of software being controlled by the accessory e.g. World of Warcraft type of operations commonly used to control the software e.g. known actions as shown in the actions column of an understanding of the associations made by other users e.g. gamers to improve their performance when controlling the software and so on. The AMS application can also be adapted to communicate with the active software application by way of an Application Programming Interface API to receive additional usage statistics from the software which it can in turn use to improve the user s performance. The AMS application can also utilize common statistical and behavior modeling techniques to predict the behavior of the user and responses from the software application to identify possible ways to improve the user s performance.

From these illustrations it would be apparent to an artisan of ordinary skill in the art that innumerable algorithms can be developed to analyze accessory usage and thereby suggest improvements. These undisclosed embodiments are contemplated by the present disclosure.

From the foregoing descriptions it would be evident to an artisan with ordinary skill in the art that the aforementioned embodiments can be modified reduced or enhanced without departing from the scope and spirit of the claims described below. For example the AMS application can be operated from other computing devices such as the gaming console . In this embodiment the dongle can provide the AMS application by way of the gaming console the recorded statistics during or after a gaming session.

In another embodiment the AMS application and dongle can be adapted to define more than one programmable layer for an accessory. Such a feature can extend the functionality of an accessory into multi layer paradigms of input functions. The GUI of can be adapted so that a user can specify more than one programmable layer for a specific accessory. The user can also specify which layer to present in while associating actions. If for instance layer 1 is shown the GUI of can present the actions associated in this layer by presenting descriptors superimposed on the input functions e.g. buttons or keys . When the user switches to layer 2 e.g. by selecting from a drop down menu the layer of interest the accessory can be shown in the GUI with a different set of associated actions. The user can define a macro or identify a key sequence to switch between layers when the accessory is in use.

The trigger for switching between layers can be a toggle function e.g. selecting the tab key on a Qwerty keyboard to switch between layers in a round robin fashion layer 1 layer 2 layer 3 to layer 1 and so on . Alternatively the user can define a hold and release trigger to switch between layers. In this embodiment the user moves to another layer while pressing a button e.g. a Shift key and returns to the preceding layer upon its release. In yet another embodiment the trigger to switch layers can be defined differently per layer. The user can for example select the letter A in layer 1 to proceed to layer 2 and select the letter B in layer 2 to return to layer 1 or proceed to yet another layer 3. There can be numerous combinations of layers and triggers which can be defined to substantially expand the capability of single accessory.

In another embodiment the AMS application can be adapted so that a user can define super macros and or super profiles. A super macro can represent nested macros combinations of macros . AMS application can be adapted so that the user can customize the timing for executing nested macros. Similarly a super profile can represent nested profiles combinations of profiles . A super profile can for example comprise sub profiles each sub profile defining associations of actions to input functions of a particular accessory. The super macros and or profiles can be programmed into the dongle .

In yet another embodiment the gaming accessory can be equipped with a biometric device such as a fingerprint reader to identify the user of the gaming accessory and thereby provide an identity that describes the user and the accessory used thereby. In this embodiment different users can utilize the same gaming accessory but invoke in the dongle a different user account depending on the biometric data provided with the accessory ID.

The foregoing embodiments are a subset of possible embodiments contemplated by the present disclosure. Other suitable modifications can be applied to the present disclosure. Accordingly the reader is directed to the claims for a fuller understanding of the breadth and scope of the present disclosure.

The machine may comprise a server computer a client user computer a personal computer PC a tablet PC a laptop computer a desktop computer a control system a network router switch or bridge or any machine capable of executing a set of instructions sequential or otherwise that specify actions to be taken by that machine. It will be understood that a device of the present disclosure includes broadly any electronic device that provides voice video or data communication. Further while a single machine is illustrated the term machine shall also be taken to include any collection of machines that individually or jointly execute a set or multiple sets of instructions to perform any one or more of the methodologies discussed herein.

The computer system may include a processor e.g. a central processing unit CPU a graphics processing unit GPU or both a main memory and a static memory which communicate with each other via a bus . The computer system may further include a video display unit e.g. a liquid crystal display LCD a flat panel a solid state display or a cathode ray tube CRT . The computer system may include an input device e.g. a keyboard a cursor control device e.g. a mouse a disk drive unit a signal generation device e.g. a speaker or remote control and a network interface device .

The disk drive unit may include a machine readable medium on which is stored one or more sets of instructions e.g. software embodying any one or more of the methodologies or functions described herein including those methods illustrated above. The instructions may also reside completely or at least partially within the main memory the static memory and or within the processor during execution thereof by the computer system . The main memory and the processor also may constitute machine readable media.

Dedicated hardware implementations including but not limited to application specific integrated circuits programmable logic arrays and other hardware devices can likewise be constructed to implement the methods described herein. Applications that may include the apparatus and systems of various embodiments broadly include a variety of electronic and computer systems. Some embodiments implement functions in two or more specific interconnected hardware modules or devices with related control and data signals communicated between and through the modules or as portions of an application specific integrated circuit. Thus the example system is applicable to software firmware and hardware implementations.

In accordance with various embodiments of the present disclosure the methods described herein are intended for operation as software programs running on a computer processor. Furthermore software implementations can include but not limited to distributed processing or component object distributed processing parallel processing or virtual machine processing can also be constructed to implement the methods described herein.

The present disclosure contemplates a machine readable medium containing instructions or that which receives and executes instructions from a propagated signal so that a device connected to a network environment can send or receive voice video or data and to communicate over the network using the instructions . The instructions may further be transmitted or received over a network via the network interface device .

While the machine readable medium is shown in an example embodiment to be a single medium the term machine readable medium should be taken to include a single medium or multiple media e.g. a centralized or distributed database and or associated caches and servers that store the one or more sets of instructions. The term machine readable medium shall also be taken to include any medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying a set of instructions for execution by the machine and that cause the machine to perform any one or more of the methodologies of the present disclosure.

The term machine readable medium shall accordingly be taken to include but not be limited to solid state memories such as a memory card or other package that houses one or more read only non volatile memories random access memories or other re writable volatile memories magneto optical or optical medium such as a disk or tape and carrier wave signals such as a signal embodying computer instructions in a transmission medium and or a digital file attachment to e mail or other self contained information archive or set of archives is considered a distribution medium equivalent to a tangible storage medium. Accordingly the disclosure is considered to include any one or more of a machine readable medium or a distribution medium as listed herein and including art recognized equivalents and successor media in which the software implementations herein are stored.

Although the present specification describes components and functions implemented in the embodiments with reference to particular standards and protocols the disclosure is not limited to such standards and protocols. Each of the standards for Internet and other packet switched network transmission e.g. TCP IP UDP IP HTML HTTP represent examples of the state of the art. Such standards are periodically superseded by faster or more efficient equivalents having essentially the same functions. Accordingly replacement standards and protocols having the same functions are considered equivalents.

The illustrations of embodiments described herein are intended to provide a general understanding of the structure of various embodiments and they are not intended to serve as a complete description of all the elements and features of apparatus and systems that might make use of the structures described herein. Many other embodiments will be apparent to those of skill in the art upon reviewing the above description. Other embodiments may be utilized and derived therefrom such that structural and logical substitutions and changes may be made without departing from the scope of this disclosure. Figures are also merely representational and may not be drawn to scale. Certain proportions thereof may be exaggerated while others may be minimized. Accordingly the specification and drawings are to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense.

Such embodiments of the inventive subject matter may be referred to herein individually and or collectively by the term invention merely for convenience and without intending to voluntarily limit the scope of this application to any single invention or inventive concept if more than one is in fact disclosed. Thus although specific embodiments have been illustrated and described herein it should be appreciated that any arrangement calculated to achieve the same purpose may be substituted for the specific embodiments shown. This disclosure is intended to cover any and all adaptations or variations of various embodiments. Combinations of the above embodiments and other embodiments not specifically described herein will be apparent to those of skill in the art upon reviewing the above description.

The Abstract of the Disclosure is provided to comply with 37 C.F.R. 1.72 b requiring an abstract that will allow the reader to quickly ascertain the nature of the technical disclosure. It is submitted with the understanding that it will not be used to interpret or limit the scope or meaning of the claims. In addition in the foregoing Detailed Description it can be seen that various features are grouped together in a single embodiment for the purpose of streamlining the disclosure. This method of disclosure is not to be interpreted as reflecting an intention that the claimed embodiments require more features than are expressly recited in each claim. Rather as the following claims reflect inventive subject matter lies in less than all features of a single disclosed embodiment. Thus the following claims are hereby incorporated into the Detailed Description with each claim standing on its own as a separately claimed subject matter.

