---

title: Utilizing an image of a valve assembly to identify the valve assembly found on a process line
abstract: A system and method for conveying an identity of a valve assembly found on a process line. The method can configure the system for receiving a first image of a subject valve assembly at a first computing device. The method can also configure the system for using the first image, selecting an entry in an asset database, the entry associating valve identifying data that relates to the subject valve assembly with a second image of the subject valve assembly that is stored in the asset database, the valve identifying data configured to define an identity for the subject valve assembly. The method can further configure the system for retrieving data from the selected entry and for generating an output for display on a second computing device, wherein the output is configured to convey the valve identifying data that relates to the subject valve assembly in the first image.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09646371&OS=09646371&RS=09646371
owner: Dresser, Inc.
number: 09646371
owner_city: Addison
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150309
---
The subject matter disclosed herein relates to industrial process technology with particular discussion about systems and methods to identify assets on a process line using images of the assets in lieu of asset tags and or other identifiers physically attached to the assets.

Industrial processes typically involve chemical physical electrical and mechanical stages to manufacture items. The stages may utilize one or more process lines with devices that control certain aspects of the process. For process lines that carry fluids and or transitory materials the devices can embody flow controls that regulate a flow of the material.

A common type of flow control is a valve assembly or control valve. This valve assembly can include an electrical or pneumatic actuator that couples with a closure member via a stem . The closure member may embody a plug a ball a butterfly valve and or like implement that can contact the seat to prevent flow. In pneumatic configurations the valve assembly can include a control device also called a valve positioner which can regulate a flow of instrument gas into the actuator. The instrument gas can pressurize and de pressurize the actuator in order to locate the closure member in position relative to the seat. During operation the valve positioner can receive and process a control signal from a controller that is part of a process control system also distributed control system or DCS system . The control signal can define operating parameters for the valve assembly in accordance with an appropriate flow of fluid from the valve assembly and into the process line. The valve positioner can use these operating parameters and the output from the position sensor to set the position desired for the closure member.

Installations in heavy industries like chemical manufacturing and resource recovery and refining are typically built to very large scale. These installations may use hundreds and even thousands of valve assemblies. In such installations it is often necessary to periodically perform tasks to verify operation of the valve assemblies or in worst cases to remediate problems that result from errors and or failures of a particular valve assembly or group of valve assemblies.

These tasks typically require personnel to find and identify valve assemblies on the process line. To facilitate identification each valve assembly can include identifying information typically an identifier or asset tag like a metal plate that attaches to the valve assembly. This identifier typically has human readable information e.g. text and machine readable information e.g. bar codes that distinguishes the valve assembly from the others. In practice personnel may carry hardware e.g. a scanner that can read the machine readable information on the identifier. This practice can extract information stored in the identifier. Often the information corresponds to information found on a construction diagram also known as a piping and installation diagram or P ID diagram that defines the layout of the process lines. Use of this hardware and these diagrams can guide personnel to the appropriate locations to find the valve assembly of interest and confirm that the valve assembly is the correct device on which to perform maintenance.

Nonetheless this process does not ensure that the identified valve assembly can carry the correct asset tag or other identifying feature. In order to use asset tags for example personnel may physically secure the asset tags alone or in combination with another identifier to the valve assembly at the time of inventory maintenance and commissioning of the valve assembly on the process line. This process can introduce human error. It is possible for example for an asset tag to be mistakenly secured to the wrong valve assembly. In heavy industries such errors can waste personnel time and effort and can increase labor costs because the shear size and scale of the installations can frustrate efforts to find and identify individual valve assemblies.

Moreover it is common for the valve assembly to be located in areas that frustrate access for personnel to perform any visual recognition. These areas may require the personnel to climb crawl or otherwise physically scale obstacles to get into proximity of the subject valve assembly. When the process line and or installation generally runs processes at extremely high temperatures or using caustic and dangerous materials the requirement for physical proximity can place the personnel in danger.

In one embodiment a method for conveying an identity of a valve assembly on a process line said method including receiving a first image of a subject valve assembly at a first computing device using the first image selecting an entry in an asset database the entry associating valve identifying data that relates to the subject valve assembly the valve identifying data configured to define an identity for the subject valve assembly retrieving data from the selected entry and generating an output for display on a second computing device wherein the output is configured to convey the valve identifying data that relates to the subject valve assembly in the first image.

The method may further include comparing the first image with a second image that is stored in the asset database wherein the entry associates the valve identifying data with the second image of the subject valve assembly

The method may further include wherein the selected entry reflects a match that relates content in the first image with content in the second image.

The method may further include identifying a first feature of interest and a second feature of interest one each defining a first subset of the content in the first image and a second subset of content in the second image respectively and comparing the first feature of interest and the second feature of interest wherein the match relates the first subset of the content of the first feature of interest with the second subset of the content of the second feature of interest.

The method may further include wherein each of the first subset of the content of the first feature of interest and the second subset of the content of the second feature of interest comprises background structure proximate the subject valve assembly in the first image and the second image.

The method may further include comparing first metadata describing the first subset of content of the first feature of interest to second metadata in the asset database describing the second subset of content of the second feature of interest wherein the match relates the first metadata with the second metadata.

The method may further include extracting first image data from a data package the first image data defining the content of the first image wherein the data package includes the first image data and device data that identifies a location for the subject valve assembly.

The method may further include comparing the first image data to second image data defining the content of the second image in the asset database.

The method may further include determining the match creating a new entry in the asset database in response to an absence of the match the new entry corresponding to the subject valve assembly of the first image and writing data into the database at the new entry the data including the first image data and one or more pieces of device data as the valve identifying data.

The method may further include wherein the identity distinguishes the subject valve assembly from another valve assembly on a process line.

The method may further include wherein the output comprises diagnostic data that relates to operation of the device.

In another embodiment a system including a first computing device including a processor with access to memory having first executable instructions stored thereon the first executable instructions including one or more instructions for receiving a first image of a subject valve assembly comparing the first image to a second image of the subject valve assembly that is stored in an asset database the entry associating the second image of the subject valve assembly to valve identifying data that relates to the subject valve assembly and configured to define an identity for the subject valve assembly selecting an entry in the asset database the selected entry reflecting a match that relates content in the first image with content in the second image retrieving the valve identifying data from the selected entry and generating a first output including the valve identifying data for display.

The system may further include a second computing device including a processor with access to memory having second executable instructions stored thereon the second executable instructions including one or more instructions for configuring a display in response to the first output the display configured to display the identity of the subject valve assembly.

The system may further include wherein the second executable instructions comprise one or more instruction for generating a first user interface that configures the display on the second computing device to capture the first image generating a second user interface that configures the display on the second computing device to receive device data that relates to the subject valve assembly and generating a second output that includes data that relates to the first image for transmission over a network for use on the first computing device.

The system may further include wherein the second executable instructions comprise one or more instructions for generating a third user interface on the display that conveys the valve identifying data.

The system may further include wherein the third user interface is configured to display diagnostic data that relates to operation of the device.

The system may further include wherein the second executable instructions including one or more instructions for determining the match creating a new entry in the asset database in response to an absence of the match the new entry corresponding to the subject valve assembly of the first image and writing data into the asset database at the new entry the data including the first image data and one or more pieces of device data as the valve identifying data

In yet another embodiment a database system for identifying valve assemblies on a process line said database system including a first data structure including one or more entries each of the one or more entries including a previously acquired image of a subject valve assembly and valve identifying data that is configured to define an identity for the subject valve assembly.

The database system may further include wherein each of the one or more entries comprise metadata that defines content of the previously acquired image.

The database system may further include wherein the metadata defines a subset of content of the previously acquired image.

The database system may further include wherein the subset of the content of the previously acquired image comprises background structure proximate the subject valve assembly in the previously acquired image.

The embodiments contemplated herein may be configured to offer at least certain capabilities. These capabilities enable data transfer across a network. This data can help identify a subject valve assembly that is found in an image. The capabilities also enable data population into a database with entries that include a previously acquired image of the subject valve assembly and certain device identifying data.

Where applicable like reference characters designate identical or corresponding components and units throughout the several views which are not to scale unless otherwise indicated. Moreover the embodiments disclosed herein may include elements that appear in one or more of the several views or in combinations of the several views.

Embodiments of the disclosed subject matter can provide techniques that eliminate the need to use asset tags to identify devices on a process line and or at an installation. At least some of the embodiments below for example can use an image e.g. a digital image of a valve assembly taken by an end user in the field e.g. on a smartphone to formulate an identity for the device and to transmit data that relates to the identity to the end user. In this way the embodiments can forgo use of the asset tag in lieu of other features pertinent to the valve assembly that is the subject of identification. Other embodiments are within the scope of the disclosed subject matter.

As shown in the exemplary system includes a first computing device also server and a second computing device also an image capture terminal or terminal that can generate an image . The devices can communicate with one another over a network using conventional wired and or wireless protocols. On the left side of the diagram the image capture terminal is shown in proximity to a process line with one or more valve assemblies e.g. a first valve assembly a second valve assembly and a third valve assembly . The position of the image capture terminal is consistent with transport by the end user e.g. maintenance personnel within a factory plant or similar installation. On the right side of the diagram the server includes a database system with an asset database that comprises data and information also valve identifying data relevant to the valve assemblies . The asset database can have a data structure that includes one or more entries e.g. a first entry a second entry and a third entry that arrange the valve identifying data to correspond with particular devices and like assets found on the process line . Each entry can associate a previously acquired image with valve identifying data e.g. first identifying data and second identifying data . The valve identifying data are configured to define an identity for the valve assembly in the image . In context of the present example the entries correspond with the valve assemblies on the process line . More general implementations will populate the entries in the asset database with information about devices and assets across one or more process lines or installations or also under control operation or ownership of the plant owner and or operator.

The system can be configured to convey data that relates to the valve assemblies between the server and the terminal . For each valve assembly the system can populate an entry in the asset database . This feature can be useful to inventory each of the valve assemblies either at initial installation of the process line or as commissioned for use thereafter. Once the valve assembly is populated into the asset database the system can provide information to the end user that identifies the valve assemblies in the field. However the system uses the image of the subject valve assembly rather than asset tags and like identifiers that are secured or found thereon. This feature is beneficial because it can eliminate potential errors in identification should the subject valve assembly be mis identified or mis labeled with the wrong the asset tag. The embodiments disclosed herein can also foreclose the need for an end user to be in close proximity to the subject valve assembly but rather merely can rely on appropriate line of sight for the terminal to capture the image of the subject valve assembly.

The valve identifying data can include an assortment of data that is useful to ascribe the identity for the corresponding valve assembly of the entry . For example the identifying data can embody data and information that is useful to distinguish one valve assembly from another valve assembly. Such data may include chronology data e.g. date time stamps data of commissioning data of installation etc. manufacturing data e.g. manufacturer name manufacturer serial number s manufacturer location s etc. installation data e.g. location and or GPS coordinates process information etc. . The visual representation is preferably an image image file or image data associated therewith of the corresponding valve assembly also a previously acquired image . In one implementation the identifying data may also include metadata that is associated with the previously acquired image . This metadata may describe certain features found in the previously acquired image that are useful to match the image with the previously acquired image . During operation of the system the server may be configured to identify and or define metadata for certain features in the image and compare this metadata to the metadata in the asset database to select the appropriate entry .

The background structure can include elements that are consistent with or in proximity of the location of the subject valve assembly on the process line . These elements may comprise parts of the process line . In one implementation the elements of the background structure can include signage equipment and other physical members found at the location and that can fit into the field of view of the image . The background structure in the images may be helpful because the structure of the valve assemblies is often identical or similar and thus is unlikely to provide any reasonable basis for distinguishing between the valve assemblies . On the other hand the background structure can provide additional context within the images for purposes of identifying the subject valve assembly in lieu of any asset tags and or other physical identifiers found if at all on the subject valve assembly .

The methods shown in are exemplary only and not limiting. For example the methods may be altered by for example having stages added removed or rearranged.

With reference also to illustrates a flow diagram of a method to convey valve identifying data for display on the terminal . The valve identifying data may provide the identity e.g. by serial number or can help the end user to formulate the identity of the subject valve assembly . When implemented as part of the system the stages of the method may be implemented as first executable instructions that configure the server to perform certain processes to facilitate these functions.

The method can include at stage receiving a first image of the subject valve assembly at a first computing device and at stage using the first image selecting an entry in an asset database the entry associating valve identifying data that relates to the subject valve assembly with a second image of the subject valve assembly that is stored in the asset database . In one example the valve identifying data is configured to define an identity for the subject valve assembly . The method can also include at stage retrieving data from the selected entry and at stage generating an output for display on a second computing device at stage . The output can be configured to describe the identity of the subject valve assembly in the first image .

At stage the server can receive the first image from the terminal . Examples of the terminal can embody portable devices that are configured to capture and transmit a digital image also digital representation . These devices can include smartphones and tablets although appropriately equipped cameras and computing devices e.g. laptops desktops etc. may also provide suitable functionality. In use the end user can position the terminal to capture at least part if not all of the valve assembly that is the subject of identification i.e. the subject valve assembly . The position of the terminal may for example locate the terminal in front or at least in relative proximity to the subject valve assembly . However as noted above such position is restricted only by operating functions e.g. focus that might limit the ability of the terminal to capture the image .

At stage the server can use the image and the previously acquired image to select an entry from the asset database . The selected entry can provide data that is useful to identify the subject valve assembly . In one embodiment the method may include stages for comparing the images wherein the selected entry reflects a match that relates content in the first image with content in the second image . A failure to find the match may prompt the server to add a new entry into the asset database as noted further below in connection with .

The method may include stages for processing one or more of the images to identify content and or feature s of interest that are useful to establish the match. These stages may use computer vision technology to process and or examine the content of the images to identify the feature s of interest . The method may then leverage the output of the computer vision technology to identify the selected entry in accordance with the concepts herein.

In one implementation the method may include stages for identifying a first feature of interest and a second feature of interest one each defining a first subset of the content in the first image and a second subset of the content in the second image respectively. The method may also include stages for comparing the first feature of interest and the second feature of interest wherein the match relates the first subset with the second subset. As noted above in certain cases the first subset and the second subset may comprise background structure proximate the subject valve assembly .

The stages of the method may also include stages for assigning metadata describing the content and or feature s of interest of one or both of the image and the previously acquired image . These stages may result in first metadata describing the first subset of content in the first image and second metadata describing the second subset of content in the second image . In use the second metadata may be previously stored in the asset database . This feature may facilitate more efficient operation of the processes by avoiding repetitive processing of the previously acquired image in its entirety each time the image is received for identification. In one implementation the method may include stages for comparing the first metadata with the second metadata in the asset database wherein the match relates the first metadata with the second metadata.

The stages of the method may further include stages for extracting image data from a data package. The image data can define the content of the image as discuss herein and particularly in connection with above. Examples of the data package may be received from the terminal preferably in a data format that facilitates transfer of data over the network . The data package can include first image data and device data that in one example identify a location for the subject valve assembly . The method may also include stages for comparing the first image data to the second image data in the asset database as at least one way to identify the match.

At stage the server can retrieve data from the selected entry the retrieved data . This retrieved data may represent all or a subset of the valve identifying data that is stored in the database . The method may include stages for selecting one or more pieces of the valve identifying data based on for example certain operating instructions received from the terminal . In one implementation the retrieved data may also include diagnostic data that defines historical and or contemporaneous operation of the subject valve assembly . This diagnostic data can include performance indicators e.g. friction spring range lag stick slip and like parameters that can in one example be mathematically calculated from the operating variables discussed herein.

At stage the server can generate the output and or data package with data for display on the terminal . This data package can be formatted to allow the retrieved data to transmit over the network . In this respect the disclosed subject matter contemplates that the system may utilize a client server model to facilitate data exchange between the server and the terminal . This client server model may for example employ a web browser and a web server to generate a user interface on the terminal . The server can operate as the web server wherein the output is configured as one or more Web pages or like displayable content one the web browser. In one implementation the method can include one or more stages for formatting the output. An example of such formatting can use language independent specifications like JavaScript Object Notation JSON format which can simplify the exchange of data in connection with certain structure and architectures like the representational state transfer REST structure that can use HTTP requests to perform various communication operations that create data update data read data and delete data. This structure can offer a lightweight alternative to Remote Procedure Calls and Web Services e.g. SOAP WSDL etc. among other architectures that are used by conventional data exchange techniques particularly with respect to diagnostic data from or about valve assemblies found on a process line. This lightweight structure can simplify the calls and data requests and outputs that are generated in response to the calls. Device diagnostics and related data management for valve assemblies can benefit from this structure because the HTTP requests significantly reduce the coding and other tasks necessary to implement the REST structure for use with diagnostic data.

With continued reference also to shows a flow diagram of a method that can configure the terminal to generate and exchange data also device data with the server . The device data may be used to populate the device identifying data in the entries of the asset database . When implemented as part of the system the stages of the method may be implemented as second executable instructions that configure the terminal to perform certain processes to facilitate these features. In one implementation one or more of the second executable instructions may reside on the terminal as a native application or app to provide the user interface although this disclosure does contemplate that some or all of the second executable instruction may reside remote from the terminal . In another implementation the second executable instructions may configure the sever and or terminal to provide the user interface as part of a web browser.

The method can include at stage generating a first user interface that configures a display on a second computing device to capture a first image of a subject valve assembly . The method may also include at stage generating a second user interface that configures the display on the second computing device to receive device data that relates to the subject valve assembly . The method can further include at stage generating a second output that includes data that relates to the first image the second output configured for transmission over a network for use on the first computing device . In one embodiment the method can also include at stage transmitting the output to the network .

At stage the terminal can capture the image . The first user interface may provide a variety of tools for the end user to operate a camera or like configured device found on the terminal . Subsequent to capture of the image at stage the terminal can receive data for example from direct and or manual entry by the end user. The second user interface may configure the display with one or more screens that allow manual entry e.g. via keyboard and or selectable icons of information by the end user that is associated with the image and the subject valve assembly pictured therein. The information may describe the subject valve assembly including its location physical and or operable conditions at the time the end user captures the image and the like. In one implementation the method may include stages that configure the terminal to also associate the image with GPS information time date information and other information that is readily accessible on and or by the terminal and that can add context to the image . At stages and the terminal can generate the output and or data package with the device data and transmit the output for use at the sever . The device data can include the image as well as the device data that is captured and processed at the screens of the second user interface.

With reference also to depicts a flow diagram of a method that can configure the server to populate the entries in the asset database with the device data found in the package from the terminal . As noted above the server may be required to write data to the asset database should no match between the first image and the second image is found during initial processing of the first image . In the present example of the method can include at stage receiving a data package comprising device data at a first computing device. The method can also include at stage extracting first image data from the data package the first image data defining the content of the first image . The method can further include at stage determining a match that relates content in the first image with content in the second image. A discussion of examples of the match is found above in context of . In one implementation the method can include at stage creating a new entry in the asset database in response to an absence of the match the new entry corresponding with the subject valve assembly of the first image and at stage writing data into the asset database at the new entry the data comprising the first image data and one or more pieces of device data as the valve identifying data. The written data may describe and or relate to the previously acquired image of the subject valve assembly the metadata and one or more pieces of device data that is provided e.g. by the end user at the terminal as discussed above.

In the exemplary valve assembly can include a fluid coupling with a body that has a first inlet outlet and a second inlet outlet . The exemplary valve assembly can also have an actuator that couples with a valve stem . The exemplary valve assembly can further include a valve positioner that can regulate instrument gas to the actuator . In this example the valve stem may extend into the body . Inside of the body and hidden from view the fluid coupling can include components of a valve e.g. the closure member the seat etc. . These components can provide structure to modulate a flow of process fluid Fp between the inlet outlets in accordance with operation of the actuator by the valve positioner .

As shown in the exemplary valve assembly can include a closure member and a seat . The system includes a network system that includes the network . Examples of the network can transfer data information and signals by way of wired protocols e.g. 4 20 mA FOUNDATION Fieldbus HART etc. and or wireless protocols many of which find use in a plant or factory automation environment. These protocols can facilitate communication over the network between the server the terminal the valve positioner a process controller that operates the valve assemblies and or an external server . During operation the process controller can execute one or more computer programs to deliver a command signal to the valve positioner . The command signal may identify a commanded position for the closure member . The valve positioner can use the commanded position to modulate the instrument gas to the actuator and effectively allow the closure member to move relative to the seat .

In view of the foregoing the embodiments disclosed and contemplated herein can deploy features that use an image of a valve assembly to provide device identifying data that relates to the valve assembly to an end user. The embodiments can also be configured to generate an asset database that is useful to identify the device identifying data typically generated by a image capture terminal such as a smartphone or tablet. A technical effect can be to eliminate the need to rely on physical identifiers disposed on the valve assembly and thus offer a more accurate modality to identify valve assemblies in the field.

Data may reside on a data source often locally in one or more memories on the valve positioner although this disclosure also contemplates configurations in which data resides across components of the system . For example a data source may integrate with the server and or as part of the external server . At the data source the data may be arranged as one or more data sets that include one or more data samples. Certain data sets may be identified by an indicator e.g. a date stamp a time stamp a date time stamp etc. that relates to the chronological time at which the data samples in the data set were gathered and or stored e.g. in memory. For real time use of the methods data samples may be read into a buffer and or like configured storage medium that allows for ready access to the data samples to afford the methods with chronologically relevant data taking into consideration necessary data processing time lag. In one embodiment the methods may include one or more stages for obtaining and or retrieving the data from the data source.

The embodiments may be implemented on any device where relevant data is present and or otherwise accessible. For example the embodiments can be implemented as executable instructions e.g. firmware hardware software etc. on the valve positioner. The valve positioner can transmit the output of the embodiments to a distributed control system asset management system independent monitoring computing device e.g. a desktop computer laptop computer tablet smartphone mobile device etc. . In another embodiment the embodiments can obtain data from a historian e.g. a repository memory etc. and send to an independent diagnostic computing device. The historian can be conventionally connected to the asset management system or distributed control system. The diagnostic computing device can have all the capabilities of the monitoring computer and in one example the additional capability to execute executable instructions for the embodiment to process the given data. In another embodiment the valve positioner can be configured to send data by wires or wirelessly to the diagnostic computing device as well as through peripheral and complimentary channels e.g. through intermediate devices such as a DCS or may be connected directly to the diagnostic computer .

One or more of the stages of the methods can be coded as one or more executable instructions e.g. hardware firmware software software programs etc. . These executable instructions can be part of a computer implemented method and or program which can be executed by a processor and or processing device. The processor may be configured to execute these executable instructions as well as to process inputs and to generate outputs as set forth herein. For example the software can run on the process device the diagnostics server and or as software application or other aggregation of executable instructions on a separate computer tablet laptop smart phone wearable device and like computing device. These devices can display the user interface also a graphical user interface that allows the end user to interact with the software to view and input information and data as contemplated herein.

The computing components e.g. memory and processor can embody hardware that incorporates with other hardware e.g. circuitry to form a unitary and or monolithic unit devised to execute computer programs and or executable instructions e.g. in the form of firmware and software . Exemplary circuits of this type may include discrete elements such as resistors transistors diodes switches and capacitors. Examples of a processor include microprocessors and other logic devices such as field programmable gate arrays FPGAs and application specific integrated circuits ASICs . Memory can include volatile and non volatile memory and can store executable instructions in the form of and or including software or firmware instructions and configuration settings. Although all of the discrete elements circuits and devices function individually in a manner that is generally understood by those artisans that have ordinary skill in the electrical arts it is their combination and integration into functional electrical groups and circuits that generally provide for the concepts that are disclosed and described herein.

Aspects of the present disclosure may be embodied as a system method or computer program product. The embodiments may take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment an entirely software embodiment including firmware software etc. or an embodiment combining software and hardware aspects that may all generally be referred to herein as a circuit module or system. The computer program product may embody one or more non transitory computer readable medium s having computer readable program code embodied thereon.

Computer program code for carrying out operations for aspects of the present invention may be written in any combination of one or more programming languages including an object oriented programming language and conventional procedural programming languages. Program code embodied on a computer readable medium may be transmitted using any appropriate medium including but not limited to wireless wireline optical fiber cable RF etc. or any suitable combination of the foregoing.

As used herein an element or function recited in the singular and proceeded with the word a or an should be understood as not excluding plural said elements or functions unless such exclusion is explicitly recited. Furthermore references to one embodiment of the claimed invention should not be interpreted as excluding the existence of additional embodiments that also incorporate the recited features.

This written description uses examples to disclose the invention including the best mode and also to enable any person skilled in the art to practice the invention including making and using any devices or systems and performing any incorporated methods. The patentable scope of the invention is defined by the claims and may include other examples that occur to those skilled in the art. Such other examples are intended to be within the scope of the claims if they have structural elements that do not differ from the literal language of the claims or if they include equivalent structural elements with insubstantial differences from the literal language of the claims.

