---

title: Determining an indicator of aggregate, online security fitness
abstract: A computer-implemented method comprising: accessing, by one or more computer systems, internal security information indicative of customer account activity of a customer of an online resource; receiving, by one or more computer systems, external security information; calculating an online security fitness attribute that is indicative of an overall security level of the customer for accessing the online resource; generating, by the one or more computers systems, information indicative of one or more suggested actions to increase the online security fitness attribute, with a suggested action comprising information specifying an amount by which the online security fitness attribute increases following performance of the suggested action; receiving, from the client device, information indicative of performance of one of the one or more suggested actions; and re-calculating by the one or more computer systems the online security fitness attribute by increasing the online security fitness attribute in accordance with the performed, suggested action.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09349014&OS=09349014&RS=09349014
owner: FMR LLC
number: 09349014
owner_city: Boston
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150123
---
Internet security includes computer security specifically related to the Internet. Internet security establishes rules and measures to use against attacks over the Internet because the Internet represents an insecure channel for exchanging information leading to a high risk of intrusion or fraud such as phishing e.g. an attempt to acquire sensitive information by masquerading as a trustworthy entity in a communication over the Internet.

In an embodiment a computer implemented method comprises accessing by one or more computer systems internal security information indicative of customer account activity of a customer of an online resource receiving by one or more computer systems external security information indicative of online behavior of the customer a state of a client device of the customer and or a state of software installed on the client device calculating by the one or more computer systems based on the accessed and received security information an online security fitness attribute that is indicative of an overall security level of the customer for accessing the online resource generating by the one or more computers systems information indicative of one or more suggested actions to increase the online security fitness attribute with a suggested action comprising information specifying an amount by which the online security fitness attribute increases following performance of the suggested action receiving from the client device information indicative of performance of one of the one or more suggested actions and re calculating by the one or more computer systems the online security fitness attribute by increasing the online security fitness attribute in accordance with the performed suggested action. A system of one or more computers can be configured to perform particular operations or actions by virtue of having software firmware hardware or a combination of them installed on the system that in operation causes or cause the system to perform the actions. One or more computer programs can be configured to perform particular operations or actions by virtue of including instructions that when executed by data processing apparatus cause the apparatus to perform the actions.

External security information comprises one or more of information indicative of results of a security scan of the client device third party plug in information received from a third party plug in on the client device operating system information for the client device. The actions include aggregating the external security information with the internal security information to generate the online security fitness attribute. The actions include selecting by the one or more computer systems incentive information that represents one or more incentives to incentivize the customer to perform at least one of the one or more suggested actions. The actions include detecting an occurrence of a pre defined event that represents a risk of compromised security re calculating the online security fitness attribute by decreasing the online security fitness attribute in accordance a value associated with the with the pre defined event and prompting the customer for verification information to confirm that a user requesting access to the online resource is an authorized user. The actions include receiving from a device authentication information based on the prompting determining from the authentication information whether the user requesting access to the online resource is an authorized user when the requesting user is an authorized user permitting the requesting user to access the online resource and increasing the online security fitness attribute by a predetermined amount and when the requesting user is an unauthorized user denying the requesting user access to the online resource and decreasing the online security fitness attribute by a predetermined amount. The actions include generating information for a graphical user interface that when rendered on a display device renders a first visual representation of the online security fitness attribute and second visual representations of the one or more suggested actions with a second visual representation displaying a number of points by which the online security fitness attribute increases following performance of an associated suggested action.

The actions include detecting an occurrence of unusual activity in the customer account and generating a notification of the detected unusual activity. The actions include accessing a plurality of security fitness rules that comprise a computer scan rule a third party plug in rule a customer behavior rule and a weighting rule wherein the computer scan rule specifies a first computer scan value when the client device has installed computer scanning software and a second computer scan value when the client device does not have installed computer scanning software wherein the third party plug in rule specifies values for different types of third party plug in information received wherein the customer behavior rule includes a mapping of customer behavior information to customer behavior values and wherein the weighting rule specifies one of more weighted values to be applied to one or more of the computer scan values values for the different types of third party plug in information and customer behavior values. Generating the online security fitness attribute comprises aggregating the first computer scan value or the second computer scan value with one or more values for different types of third party plug in information received and with one or more customer behavior values in accordance with the weighting rule. Generating the online security fitness attribute comprises generating based on one or more of the security fitness rules the online security fitness attribute.

Described are techniques for producing a security indication of a system networked to online resource systems. The techniques involve scanning various online systems for segments of information that are used in generating a security fitness attribute that is indicative of an overall security level of the customer for accessing the online resource. There are various types of security fitness attributes including e.g. a security fitness score that is a numerical values that is indicative of an overall security level of the customer for accessing the online resource. Other types of attributes include indicators of an overall online security state of an online resource or of a particular user account accessible via the online resource. Generally an online resource includes information that is accessible over a network the Internet or an intranet . There are various types of online resources e.g. websites web pages information viewed via applications and so forth.

Referring to a networked system includes online resource device system for generating security fitness scores i.e. a security fitness score system client device and data repository . System is programmed to analyze external and internal information to generate online security fitness score. Online resource device hosts online resource that is accessible to the client device . Online resource device stores user account information that represents a user account e.g. a user account of a user of client device with an entity e.g. a financial institution that maintains online resource device. User account information is accessible to a user not shown of client device via online resource

System generates security fitness score by aggregating external information received via network and internal information stored in data repository . External information is information that is received from one or more third party entities that are outside of system . Internal information is information that is in system already or is otherwise readily accessible by system . Internal information includes account activity information i.e. information about user activity and user behavior with regard to the user account represented by user account information . Account activity information includes information that specifies at what times of day a user accesses the user account from what Internet address the user accesses the user account a hardware identifier that identifies a device from which the user accesses the user account the date on which a personal identification number PIN for the user account was last updated and other customer interactions with the user account. System tracks interactions with the user account. Requests for user account interactions with on online resource are routed to system . System determines whether to allow or deny the requested user interaction. Online resource device is configured for communication with system such that requests to access a user account are initially routed to system or are re routed to system . Online resource device also transmits other information to system e.g. when a user last updated a PIN and geographic locations from which the user account is regularly accessed from.

There are also various other type of account activity information e.g. such as Internet Protocol IP address that is used in determining whether a new request to access an account is coming from an authenticated IP address or an IP address that has previously successfully accessed the account. Account activity information also includes information indicative of a range of valid IP addresses that are authenticated for a particular user account. Account activity information also includes information indicative of internet service providers ISPs that were used in previously accessing the account e.g. to determine whether a new access request is received from a previously authorized ISP. Account activity information also includes information specifying geographic locations e.g. city county and so forth from which the user s account has previously been accessed. System determines if a new access request is coming from a previously identified and authenticated geographic location.

Account activity information also includes information that is sourced from various components of system and or online resource device. Information from a legal team for the entity that maintains online resource device is sourced to get information on location and account authorizations.

Once this initial information is sourced system tracks additional metrics such as logins e.g. device when and where logins occur and which type of transactions were made . PIN Password resets are tracked and used to influence the score and negative habits e.g. longer periods between resets affect the security fitness score negatively. Information on call frequency is monitored and stored to protect a customer from unauthorized account access to a customer s account via phone. Once this information is stored system aggregates the information to dynamically adjust the score during a user session or from external influences.

Account activity information is used in generating a profile of types of normal activity that an authorized user performs in an account. A user performing an action more than a specified number of time constitutes a normal activity e.g. user usually more than three times uses a mobile device perform a first type of action in an account.

Using activity account information system detects unusual e.g. not previously occurring account activity and notifies a user of the detected unusual activity or prompts a user for additional information to verify that a user requesting access to the account is an authorized user. For example a user usually logs in from her mobile device to perform a first type of action in an account logs into her iPad to perform a second type of account action and logs into her PC to perform a third type of account action. If this user attempts a second or third type of account action from her mobile device system requests additional authentication as abnormal behavior could indicate a stolen mobile device. In another example another user maintains an account with an institution that has been affected by a virus. System received a notification of this virus and lowers the user s security fitness and notifies him of the breach until positive security actions from the user occur e.g. such as installing security scanning software on the user s mobile phone . Additionally system specifies a threshold security fitness score and prompts a user for additional authentication information when the actual security fitness score is less than the threshold score.

System also collects external information i.e. information that is received from client device security scan information that is received from security scan software installed on client device and or third party plug in information that is received from a third party plug in on client device . Client device executes a security fitness application for viewing security fitness score . Through security fitness application a user of client device requests access to account information with the request being routed to system to assess the security level before granting access.

The security fitness application communicates with third party plug in that is also installed on client device because security fitness application has an open Application Programming Interface API that allows for such communications. There are various types of third party plug in information including e.g. OS Patch information information indicative of a type of web browser and version information indicative of 3rd Party Plug in version PDF Java Flash etc a known Bad program check information and information indicative of a check of security application firewall. Third party plug in may be a social networking plug in that allows a user to access a social network. Because third party plug in interfaces with security fitness application security fitness application collects social networking information. A social network plugin e.g. third party plug in can be used to get the overall security of user on the internet. A compromised social network can mean further compromise when social log in is used or the same password is used for multiple account. The social network plugin sends to security fitness application information indicative of the security of the social networking account e.g. information specifying whether the social networking account has been hacked when the password was changed and so forth .

Third party plug in may also be various other types of plug ins e.g. such as a system identifier plug in that identifies aspects of client device such as which operating system is installed on client device internet protocol IP settings of client device and so forth. Depending on the type of third party plug in third party plug in information includes social networking information operating setting information and IP setting information.

Security fitness application also interfaces with security scan software to detect whether security scan software is installed on client device . If security scan software is installed on client device security fitness application retrieves from security scan software information specifying if there are any known issues on client device such as missing patches. Security scan software also performs malware scanning performs host file modification checks for known malevolent application and scans for web browser and operating system versions. Through the interface between security fitness application and security scan software security scan software passes security scan information to security fitness application . Security scan information includes information indicative of the results of the scan and other information that security scan software has identified.

Data repository also stores suggested action information e.g. information indicative of one or more suggested actions a user can perform to increase a security fitness scare. There are various types of suggested actions e.g. adding a selfie i.e. a user photograph as a two step authentication factor scanning a user fingerprint into system generating a stronger password installing anti virus software learning about different types of viruses adding an avatar e.g. a picture to an account and so forth. A suggested action is associated with a specified number of points e.g. a suggested action score by which the security fitness score increases e.g. upon performance of the action.

System generates security fitness score using security fitness rules third party plug in information security scan information account activity information and number of points that are accorded to performed suggested actions. Security fitness rules includes various different types of rules and an algorithm for computing security fitness score. Security fitness rules include a computer scan rule a third party plug in rule a customer behavior rule and a weighting rule.

The computer scan rules specify various computer scan scores based on satisfaction of various conditions as shown in the below Table 1.

As shown in the above Table 1 when system detects that security scanning software is installed on client device the computer scan rule specifies a computer scan score of a predefined value i.e. 5. When system detects that security scanning software is not installed on client device the computer scan rule specifies another computer scan score of another predefined value i.e. 5. When system detects that client device is running a operating system OS designated here as type 1 the computer scan rule specifies a computer scan score of 2. When system detects that client device is running an OS designated here as type 2 the computer scan rule specifies a computer scan score of 1. In this example the system is configured to recognize that the type 1 OS is marginally more secure than the type 2 OS. System uses security scan information in determining which conditions of the computer scan rules are satisfied. As described in further detail below security fitness score is generated based on an aggregation the computer scan scores.

The third party plug in rules specify various third party plug in scores based on satisfaction of various conditions as shown in the below Table 2.

As shown in the above Table 2 the third party plug in rules specify that when the third party plug in detects a security breach e.g. in the third party website the third party plug in score is a predefined value i.e. 2 . The third party plug in rules specify that when the third party plug in detects a lack of security breach e.g. in the third party website the third party plug in score is a predefined value i.e. 5 . In some examples the third party plug in or associated therewith calculates its own security score and communicates this security score back to the security fitness application . In this example the third party plug in score is the third party security score.

Third party applications use their own algorithm to determine their weighting on what comprises good security. For example a third party plugin may weight the password for their service X more than a poor security question. Their algorithm would be run along with the others to affect the overall score e.g. by being incorporated into the security fitness score.

The customer behavior rules specify various customer behavior scores based on satisfaction of various conditions as shown in the below Table 3. System uses account activity information in determining which conditions of the customer behavior rules are satisfied. As described in further detail below security fitness score is generated based on an aggregation of customer behavior scores.

As shown in the above Table 3 the customer behavior rules include a mapping of customer behavior information to customer behavior scores. When system detects that a user e.g. of client device is attempting to login from an unknown device the customer behavior rule specifies a customer behavior score of a predefined value i.e. 2. To detect whether a device is known or unknown system stores in data repository hardware identification information that identifies known authorized devices. When a user of client device is setting up an online account on online resource the user specifies which user devices are authorized by transmitting an International Mobile Station Equipment Identity IMEI number to online resource device and or to system . When online resource device receives the IMEI number online resource device transmits it to system for storage. System stores the IMEI number in association with an account identifier for the account represented by account information e.g. to specify an authorized device for the account represented by account information . When system detects that a user e.g. of client device is attempting to login from a known device the customer behavior rule specifies a customer behavior score of a predefined value i.e. 2.

When system detects that a user e.g. of client device is attempting to login from outside of previously known login times the customer behavior rule specifies a customer behavior score of a predefined value i.e. 3. When system detects that a user e.g. of client device is attempting to login from inside of previously known login times the customer behavior rule specifies a customer behavior score of a predefined value i.e. 3. A known login time is a time of day and or a range of time at which a user accesses the user account with increased frequency relative to other times at which the user accesses the account. A known login time is also a time of day and or a range of time at which a user accesses the user account at least a threshold number of times. For example system specifies that a user access an account at least four times within a same time range e.g. 2 3 pm for the time to be a known login time.

When system detects that a user e.g. of client device is attempting to login from and the user s PIN has not been reset within a specified time period e.g. four months the customer behavior rule specifies a customer behavior score of a predefined value i.e. 5. When system detects that a user e.g. of client device is attempting to login from and the user s PIN has been reset within a specified time period e.g. four months the customer behavior rule specifies a customer behavior score of a predefined value i.e. 5.

As shown in the below Table 4 system weights the various scores e.g. in generating security fitness score.

As shown in the above Table 4 weights for the various types of scores specify the importance of each score type in generating security fitness score . Computer scan scores are weighted three times as heavily as third party plug ins scores. Customer behavior scores are weighted twice as heavily as third party plug in scores. In a variation individual scores are individually weighted. For example weights are specified for the customer behavior scores that associated with different conditions such that one customer behavior score is weighted more heavily than another customer behavior score associated with another condition.

System generates security fitness score using computer scan scores third party plug in scores customer behavior scores suggested action scores and weighted values as shown in the below Table 5.

As shown in the above Table 5 the security fitness score is an aggregate of the weighted values of the computer scan scores the weighted values of the third party plug in scores the weighted values of the customer behavior scores and the suggested action scores. In a variation the suggested action scores may also be weighted in accordance with specified weighted values. In still another variation the security fitness score is generating by applying one or more mathematical operations to computer scan scores the third party plug in scores the customer behavior scores and the suggested action scores.

System adjusts a security fitness score by re calculating the security fitness score and or by increasing or decreasing a previously calculated security fitness score by a weighted value assigned to a new or updated computer scan score third party plug in score customer behavior score and or suggested action score. In a variation of system is integrated with online resource device with the functionality of system being run as a security fitness service on online resource device .

Data repository also includes electronic records database records . Data repository transforms electronic records by inserting a security fitness score to generate formatted data records. Data repository returns the formatted data records to system to enable the security fitness score to be retrieved. In a variation system transforms the received external data and the accessed internal data by inserting the security fitness score directly into the external and internal data to generate a formatted data record with the security fitness score. These formatted data records are stored in data repository and returned to system to enable the security fitness score to be retrieved.

In a particular example system and client device perform the operations shown in the below Table 6 in adjusting a security fitness score and in authenticating a user for accessing an account.

As shown in the above Table 6 a user attempts to log into an account by accessing the security fitness application on a client device. In response system performs operations 2 14 in determining if the attempted user login is consistent with attributes of other user logins e.g. times of days IP address from which the login is attempted and so forth . When system detects unusual account system adjusts the security fitness score downward e.g. in accordance with the security fitness rules. If the decrease in the security fitness score is greater than a threshold amount system prompts the user for additional authenticating information. Additionally when system detects abnormal activity system sets a system flag to specify that abnormal activity is detected. When system flags are present system prompts the user for additional information to validate the login.

A flag is set to indicate to the system that an irregular event has occurred. The flag is set to track how often these flags are raised. Multiple flags indicate that there is an attempt to compromise an account. The severity is assigned to indicate how likely an attempt to hack an account is multiple password entry failures from an unusual location is higher severity than one missed login attempt . Once a severity is determined further action may be required such as additional questions or a lockdown of the account 

Referring to process is implemented in updating a security fitness score. In operation client device requests access to an account e.g. a client account of the user associated with client device . Online resource device receives the request and initiates with system a customer check to assess the online health and security of client device that is requesting access. In response system requests customer information e.g. account activity information from data repository .

In response to the request data repository returns the customer information. Using the received customer information system calculates an initial security fitness score e.g. based on customer behavior scores. The initial security fitness score is calculated based on whether the login is occurring from a previously identified Internet Protocol IP address with a known Internet Service Provider ISP from a previously identified geographic location is occurring during normal business hours is occurring during hours when the user usually accesses the account and types of information included in the activity account information.

System processes the returned customer information and determines that the customer is attempting to login from an unknown device that is outside of a range of devices that have previously been used for a login. System also determines that the PIN has not been reset for at least a threshold number of months. Based on these determinations system identifies that a high risk login has occurred and adjusts the security fitness score to be adjusted security fitness score e.g. using the security fitness rules.

System determines that an attempted login is a high risk login when system detects a threshold number of pre defined risky activities e.g. a user attempting to access an account outside of normal business hours a user attempting to access an account from an authorized device a user attempting to execute a trade type that deviates from trade types previously executed by the user and so forth.

In response to determining that an attempted login is high risk system sends an alert notification to client device that prompts the customer for action e.g. by sending a request for additional information and PIN reset to online resource device which in turn prompts the customer this information. The security fitness score continues to decrease to security fitness score until the user provides the requested additional information. There are various ways in which system determines by how the security fitness score continues to decrease. One way is that the security fitness score decreases by a specified amount e.g. 25 points for each time interval e.g. each hour that the action is not completed. Client device transmits the requested information to online resource device which updates its system with the information and transmits the information or other information specifying the types of actions that the user performed to system . Based on the actions the customer performed e.g. updating a PIN system generates an updated security fitness score in accordance with suggested action scores for the actions the customer performed.

Referring to graphical user interface displays visual representation of a security fitness score. Graphical user interface also display progress bar that provides a visual indication of a user s progress in establishing a secure online account. Icon specifies wherein a range of potential security fitness scores a particular users security fitness score falls.

Graphical user interface includes portion that displays next steps e.g. suggested actions a user could take to increase a security fitness score. Visual representation specifies a suggesting action of establishing an avatar for an online account to increase the security fitness score. Visual representation includes information specifying an amount i.e. 15 points by which the online security fitness score increases following performance of the suggested action of establishing an avatar. The association of an avatar with an online account increases online security because when attempting to access the account that user can be prompted to select which avatar the user previously associated with the account.

Portion also includes visual representation of a suggested action of learning about a particular virus or online security risk. Visual representation includes incentive information that specifies an incentive i.e. a number of free trades with a trading institution for the user to complete the suggested action represented in visual representation . Suggestions actions are associated with various types of incentives e.g. a predefined percentage of cash back on purchases made with a payment card associated with an entity that maintains the customer account. Portion also includes visual representation of another suggested action of installing antivirus software on a client device to increase the security fitness score.

Graphical user interface also includes visual representations and of other suggested actions to increase the security fitness score. Visual representation includes a suggested action of scanning a fingerprint into the system e.g. such that a next time the user logs into the system the user is re prompted for a finger print scan and the system determines whether the scanned finger print matches the previously stored fingerprint of an authorized user.

Visual representation includes a suggested action in generating a stronger password for the customer account e.g. by generating an alphanumeric password by generating a password with symbols and so forth. Visual representation includes a suggested action of associating the customer account with a user picture e.g. a selfie . After the selfie is added to the customer account system receives a graphical image of a user requesting access to the account. System performs facial recognition on the graphical image to determine whether the selfie matches the received graphical image. When there is a match this provides a strong indication that the user is an authorized user. When there is not a match this indicates that the user is not an authorized user.

Visual representation includes a suggested action of installing security scanning software on a client device to increase the security fitness score. Visual representation includes a suggested action of scheduling a follow up time to review the user s security fitness score and to review additional actions the user could take to increase the security fitness score.

Referring to graphical user interface enables a user to associate a selfie with a customer account. Graphical user interface includes portion that displays a visual representation of the selfie and also displays information specifying a progress of scanning in the selfie.

Referring to graphical user interface displays an updated security fitness score following the user s performance of one of more of the suggested action. Graphical user interface includes progress bar to provide a visual representation of the security of a user s account relative to the security of other user s account and to provide a representation of where in a range of security fitness scores the user s security fitness score falls. Progress bar includes benchmark representation to represent a security fitness score e.g. an average security fitness score of other users with attributes and characteristics that are the same as or similar to the attributes and characteristics of the user associated with security fitness score . Progress bar also includes indicator to represent a proximity of the user s security fitness score to benchmark representation .

Referring to graphical user interface is displayed on an application e.g. a security fitness application that is dedicated to communication with system . Graphical user interface displays notification when system detects unusual or abnormal account activity as previously described.

Referring to graphical user interface is displayed on the application that is dedicated to communication with system . Graphical user interface includes visual representation of a user s security fitness score. Graphical user interface also includes progress bar that represents a user s progress in establishing online security. Graphical user interface also includes portion that displays a text alert to notify a user of additional ways the user may increase the user s security fitness score. In this example portion indicates that the user s client device has received a text message that notifies that user that the user may increase the security fitness score by eight points by logging into the user s account to view the history.

Referring to graphical user interface displays the user s login history to promote the user confirming that only authorized users have accessed the user s account. Graphical user interface includes portion to represents a login entry from an unknown user. There are various ways in which system determines whether a user is known or unknown including e.g. by determining whether a login requests originates from a known e.g. previously identified IP address. Portion includes control for a viewer of graphical user interface to specify that the user attempting to log into the account is an unknown user. Portion also includes control for the viewer to specify the user attempting to log into the account is an approved user. Upon selection of control the system lowers the security fitness score and prompts the viewer to perform additional actions to increase the security of the account e.g. by updating a password or a PIN .

Referring to system executes process in computing a security fitness score. In operation system accesses internal security information indicative of customer account activity of a customer of an online resource and external security information indicative of online behavior of the customer a state of a client device of the customer or a state of software installed on the client device. System generates based on the accessed security information an online security fitness score that is indicative of an overall amount of online security of the customer for accessing the online resource. System also generates information indicative of one or more suggested actions for increasing the online security fitness score with a suggested action comprising information specifying an amount by which the online security fitness score increases following performance of the suggested action. System receives information indicative of performance of one of the one or more suggested actions. System re calculates the online security fitness score by increasing the online security fitness score in accordance with the performed suggested action as previously described.

Referring to client device can be any sort of computing device capable of taking input from a user and communicating over network with system and or with other client devices. Client device can be a mobile device a desktop computer a laptop a cell phone a personal digital assistant PDA a server an embedded computing system a mobile device and so forth.

System can be any of a variety of computing devices capable of receiving information such as a server a distributed computing system a desktop computer a laptop a cell phone a rack mounted server and so forth. System may be a single server or a group of servers that are at a same location or at different locations.

System can receive information from client device via interface which is any type of interface capable of receiving information over a network such as an Ethernet interface a wireless networking interface a fiber optic networking interface a modem and so forth. System also includes a processor and memory . A bus system including for example a data bus and a motherboard can be used to establish and to control data communication between the components of system . Processor may include one or more microprocessors. Generally processor may include any appropriate processor and or logic that is capable of receiving and storing data and of communicating over a network not shown . Memory can include a hard drive and a random access memory storage device such as a dynamic random access memory machine readable media or other types of non transitory machine readable hardware storage devices.

Embodiments can be implemented in digital electronic circuitry or in computer hardware firmware software or in combinations thereof. An apparatus can be implemented in a computer program product tangibly embodied or stored in a machine readable hardware storage device for execution by a programmable processor and method actions can be performed by a programmable processor executing a program of instructions to perform functions by operating on input data and generating output. The embodiments described herein and other embodiments of the invention can be implemented advantageously in one or more computer programs that are executable on a programmable system including at least one programmable processor coupled to receive data and instructions from and to transmit data and instructions to a data storage system at least one input device and at least one output device. Each computer program can be implemented in a high level procedural or object oriented programming language or in assembly or machine language if desired and in any case the language can be a compiled or interpreted language.

Processors suitable for the execution of a computer program include by way of example both general and special purpose microprocessors and any one or more processors of any kind of digital computer. Generally a processor will receive instructions and data from a read only memory or a random access memory or both. The essential elements of a computer are a processor for executing instructions and one or more memory devices for storing instructions and data. Generally a computer will also include or be operatively coupled to receive data from or transfer data to or both one or more mass storage devices for storing data e.g. magnetic magneto optical disks or optical disks. Computer readable media for embodying computer program instructions and data include all forms of non volatile memory including by way of example semiconductor memory devices e.g. EPROM EEPROM and flash memory devices magnetic disks e.g. internal hard disks or removable disks magneto optical disks and CD ROM and DVD ROM disks. The processor and the memory can be supplemented by or incorporated in special purpose logic circuitry. Any of the foregoing can be supplemented by or incorporated in ASICs application specific integrated circuits .

To provide for interaction with a user embodiments can be implemented on a computer having a display device e.g. a LCD liquid crystal display monitor for displaying information to the user and a keyboard and a pointing device e.g. a mouse or a trackball by which the user can provide input to the computer. Other kinds of devices can be used to provide for interaction with a user as well for example feedback provided to the user can be any form of sensory feedback e.g. visual feedback auditory feedback or tactile feedback and input from the user can be received in any form including acoustic speech or tactile input.

Embodiments can be implemented in a computing system that includes a back end component e.g. as a data server or that includes a middleware component e.g. an application server or that includes a front end component e.g. a client computer having a graphical user interface or a Web browser through which a user can interact with an implementation of embodiments or any combination of such back end middleware or front end components. The components of the system can be interconnected by any form or medium of digital data communication e.g. a communication network. Examples of communication networks include a local area network LAN and a wide area network WAN e.g. the Internet.

The system and method or parts thereof may use the World Wide Web Web or WWW which is that collection of servers on the Internet that utilize the Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP . HTTP is a known application protocol that provides users access to resources which may be information in different formats such as text graphics images sound video Hypertext Markup Language HTML as well as programs. Upon specification of a link by the user the client computer makes a TCP IP request to a Web server and receives information which may be another Web page that is formatted according to HTML. Users can also access other pages on the same or other servers by following instructions on the screen entering certain data or clicking on selected icons. It should also be noted that any type of selection device known to those skilled in the art such as check boxes drop down boxes and the like may be used for embodiments using web pages to allow a user to select options for a given component. Servers run on a variety of platforms including UNIX machines although other platforms such Windows based platforms Sun Linux Macintosh etc. based platforms may also be used. Computer users can view information available on servers or networks on the Web through the use of browsing software such as Firefox Microsoft Internet Explorer or Mosaic browsers. The computing system can include clients and servers. A client and server are generally remote from each other and typically interact through a communication network. The relationship of client and server arises by virtue of computer programs running on the respective computers and having a client server relationship to each other.

Other embodiments are within the scope and spirit of the description claims. Additionally due to the nature of software functions described above can be implemented using software hardware firmware hardwiring or combinations of any of these. Features implementing functions may also be physically located at various positions including being distributed such that portions of functions are implemented at different physical locations. The use of the term a herein and throughout the application is not used in a limiting manner and therefore is not meant to exclude a multiple meaning or a one or more meaning for the term a. 

A number of exemplary embodiments of the invention have been described. Nevertheless it will be understood by one of ordinary skill in the art that various modifications may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the techniques described herein.

