---

title: System and method for protecting electronic money transactions
abstract: Disclosed are systems and methods for protecting electronic money transactions from fraud and malware. An exemplary method include scanning a computer to detect software objects associated with electronic money that includes at least one of a wallet configured to store electronic money, an electronic money generating application, and data including an interaction history with an electronic exchange for electronic money; identifying and adjusting electronic money security modules configured to provide data security to the detected software objects associated with the electronic money; and executing, by the adjusted electronic money security modules, at least one electronic money transaction involving the electronic money. In one aspect, the electronic money security modules include a wallet protection module, a malware detection module, and a traffic control module.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09542683&OS=09542683&RS=09542683
owner: AO Kaspersky Lab
number: 09542683
owner_city: Moscow
owner_country: RU
publication_date: 20150610
---
This application claims the benefit of priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 a d to a Russian Application No. 2014142363 filed on Oct. 22 2014 which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

The present disclosure related generally to the field of computer security and more specifically to systems and methods for protecting electronic money transactions from fraud and malicious use.

At present more and more attention is paid to so called electronic money e money which provides an electronic form of monetary liabilities of the issuer and is available to the user on electronic media e.g. the Internet . Electronic money can be implemented using smart cards networks or the like. Examples of e money can be PayPal or Yandex money.

More recently there has been another type of e money that is called cryptocurrency. Cryptocurrency is a type of e money that has its emissions and accounting based on cryptographic methods. Cryptocurrencies typically feature decentralized control among its users as opposed to a centralized electronic money systems such as PayPal and a public ledger which records transactions.

Almost all types of e money have common features. The main feature includes the use of a so called electronic wallet which is a specialized program developed for storage and exchange of e money via synchronization with other users or the issuer. Another distinctive attribute can be an electronic exchange where users can exchange their e money for other types of electronic currency or real money e.g. fiat money . With regard to cryptocurrency the term mining refers to when a cryptocurrency is generated using a resource intensive algorithm performing on modern CPUs or GPUs or even Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC boards. In particular within cryptocurrency systems the safety integrity and balance of the ledger are maintained by a community of mutually distrustful parties i.e. miners who are members of the general public using their computers to help validate and timestamp transactions adding them to the ledger in accordance with a particular timestamping scheme for the cryptocurrency systems.

With the increasing popularity of conducting transactions using e money various hackers and the like have started using social engineering methods to steal passwords from wallets or even distribute malicious programs such as Trojans to generate cryptocurrency from unsuspecting users. Electronic exchanges have also become the object of attention of scams that try to steal passwords to access both the electronic exchange and the user data stored therein.

Accordingly there is a need for system and method that provides security for e money transactions at various stages from the generation of e money to its exchange.

Disclosed are different aspect of systems methods and computer program products for protecting transactions with electronic money from fraud and malicious use.

According to one aspect a method for controlling electronic money transactions. The exemplary method includes scanning a computer to detect software objects associated with electronic money that includes at least one of a wallet configured to store electronic money an electronic money generating application and data including an interaction history with an electronic exchange for electronic money identifying and adjusting electronic money security modules configured to provide data security to the detected software objects associated with the electronic money and executing by the adjusted electronic money security modules at least one electronic money transaction involving the electronic money wherein the electronic money security modules include one of at least a wallet protection module a malware detection module and a traffic control module.

According to another aspect the method includes tracking and protecting by the wallet protection module an execution of the wallet to store the electronic money and a transfer of the electronic money.

According to another aspect the method includes detecting by the wallet protection module resources used by the wallet to store the electronic money and a transfer of the electronic money.

According to another aspect the method includes controlling by the wallet protection module access to the resources used by the wallet to store the electronic money and a transfer of the electronic money.

According to another aspect the method includes detecting by the malware detection module malicious programs that can intervene with electronic money transaction.

According to another aspect the method includes scanning by the traffic control module all network traffic associated with the electronic money.

According to another aspect the method includes scanning by the traffic control module network traffic associated with the electronic exchange for the electronic money.

According to another aspect a system is disclosed for controlling electronic money transactions. According to one aspect the system includes a hardware processor configured to scan a computer to detect software objects associated with electronic money that includes at least one of a wallet configured to store electronic money an electronic money generating application and data including an interaction history with an electronic exchange for electronic money identify and adjusting electronic money security modules configured to provide data security to the detected software objects associated with the electronic money and execute by the adjusted electronic money security modules at least one electronic money transaction involving the electronic money wherein the electronic money security modules include one of at least a wallet protection module a malware detection module and a traffic control module.

According to yet another aspect a non transitory computer readable medium storing computer executable instructions for controlling electronic money transactions is disclosed. According to one aspect the non transitory computer readable medium includes instructions for scanning a computer to detect software objects associated with electronic money that includes at least one of a wallet configured to store electronic money an electronic money generating application and data including an interaction history with an electronic exchange for electronic money identifying and adjusting electronic money security modules configured to provide data security to the detected software objects associated with the electronic money and executing by the adjusted electronic money security modules at least one electronic money transaction involving the electronic money wherein the electronic money security modules include one of at least a wallet protection module a malware detection module and a traffic control module.

The above simplified summary of example aspects serves to provide a basic understanding of the present disclosure. This summary is not an extensive overview of all contemplated aspects and is intended to neither identify key or critical elements of all aspects nor delineate the scope of any or all aspects of the present disclosure. Its sole purpose is to present one or more aspects in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description of the disclosure that follows. To the accomplishment of the foregoing the one or more aspects of the present disclosure include the features described and particularly pointed out in the claims.

Example aspects are described herein in the context of a system method and computer program product for providing security for electronic money transactions. Those of ordinary skill in the art will realize that the following description is illustrative only and is not intended to be in any way limiting. Other aspects will readily suggest themselves to those skilled in the art having the benefit of this disclosure. Reference will now be made in detail to implementations of the example aspects as illustrated in the accompanying drawings. The same reference indicators will be used to the extent possible throughout the drawings and the following description to refer to the same or like items.

In step a search is executed for possible threats for wallet . Such threats can include keyloggers or those malicious applications that take screenshots. Detection is based on finding possible hooks for appropriate functions in the operating system. In step a search is executed for possible threats that are related to the generation of e money. An example of such a threat can be a Trojan which uses computer resources to generate e money without user consent. An example of heuristic signatures for detecting malicious applications to generate electronic money may be the following set of attributes how long an unknown application uses the resources of the GPU i.e. the Graphics Processing Unit and periodically connects to pool server . In step a search is performed for the risks posed with access to the network. Examples of such threats are malicious applications which can replace the web page of exchange by a phishing resource when a user attempts to access it as well as those malicious applications proxy servers which can monitor network connections of the wallet application with a network for fraudulent transactions of e money.

Protecting the wallet via periodic readjustments or tuning may include multiple options. First it may include controlling the access to file wallet.dat usually located in the folder APPDATA Bitcoin an example for crypto currency Bitcoin from the side of the executable file of the wallet for example an executable file for the bitcoin qt.exe crypto currency Bitcoin . Second it may include controlling the operations of a running process of the executable file of the wallet which may include protecting virtual memory so that it was impossible to make an injection of external malicious code ensuring secure user input e.g. using a virtual keyboard during display of the wallet s GUI controlling network connections opened by the process. Third it may include checking the executable file of the wallet for possible substitution by a Trojan using for example digital signatures hash sums emulation of the file in order to detect possible external malicious code. Fourth it may also include updating antivirus database with the information about threats that apply to e money and e wallets and configuring file and web scanners to search for these types of threats for example file scanner may be configured to search for specific Trojans the heuristic analyzer may be configured to check unknown files on the functionality of these Trojans etc. . Fifth it may also include checking addresses of e money exchanges for phishing checking URL address or for one of the common valid digital signature type of attack Man in the Browser .

The personal computer in turn includes a hard disk for reading and writing of data a magnetic disk drive for reading and writing on removable magnetic disks and an optical drive for reading and writing on removable optical disks such as CD ROM DVD ROM and other optical information media. The hard disk the magnetic disk drive and the optical drive are connected to the system bus across the hard disk interface the magnetic disk interface and the optical drive interface respectively. The drives and the corresponding computer information media are power independent modules for storage of computer instructions data structures program modules and other data of the personal computer .

The present disclosure provides the implementation of a system that uses a hard disk a removable magnetic disk and a removable optical disk but it should be understood that it is possible to employ other types of computer information media which are able to store data in a form readable by a computer solid state drives flash memory cards digital disks random access memory RAM and so on which are connected to the system bus via the controller .

The computer has a file system where the recorded operating system is kept and also additional program applications other program modules and program data . The user is able to enter commands and information into the personal computer by using input devices keyboard mouse . Other input devices not shown can be used microphone joystick game controller scanner and so on. Such input devices usually plug into the computer system through a serial port which in turn is connected to the system bus but they can be connected in other ways for example with the aid of a parallel port a game port or a universal serial bus USB . A monitor or other type of display device is also connected to the system bus across an interface such as a video adapter . In addition to the monitor the personal computer can be equipped with other peripheral output devices not shown such as loudspeakers a printer and so on.

The personal computer is able to operate in a network environment using a network connection to one or more remote computers . The remote computer or computers are also personal computers or servers having the majority or all of the aforementioned elements in describing the nature of a personal computer as shown in . Other devices can also be present in the computer network such as routers network stations peer devices or other network nodes.

Network connections can form a local area computer network LAN and a wide area computer network WAN . Such networks are used in corporate computer networks and internal company networks and they generally have access to the Internet. In LAN or WAN networks the personal computer is connected to the local area network across a network adapter or network interface . When networks are used the personal computer can employ a modem or other modules for providing communications with a wide area computer network such as the Internet. The modem which is an internal or external device is connected to the system bus by a serial port . It should be noted that the network connections are only examples and need not depict the exact configuration of the network i.e. in reality there are other ways of establishing a connection of one computer to another by technical communication modules.

In various aspects the systems and methods described herein may be implemented in hardware software firmware or any combination thereof. If implemented in software the methods may be stored as one or more instructions or code on a non transitory computer readable medium. Computer readable medium includes data storage. By way of example and not limitation such computer readable medium can comprise RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM Flash memory or other types of electric magnetic or optical storage medium or any other medium that can be used to carry or store desired program code in the form of instructions or data structures and that can be accessed by a processor of a general purpose computer.

In various aspects the systems and methods described in the present disclosure can be addressed in terms of modules. The term module as used herein refers to a real world device component or arrangement of components implemented using hardware such as by an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or field programmable gate array FPGA for example or as a combination of hardware and software such as by a microprocessor system and a set of instructions to implement the module s functionality which while being executed transform the microprocessor system into a special purpose device. A module can also be implemented as a combination of the two with certain functions facilitated by hardware alone and other functions facilitated by a combination of hardware and software. In certain implementations at least a portion and in some cases all of a module can be executed on the processor of a general purpose computer such as the one described in greater detail in above . Accordingly each module can be realized in a variety of suitable configurations and should not be limited to any particular implementation exemplified herein.

In the interest of clarity not all of the routine features of the aspects are disclosed herein. It would be appreciated that in the development of any actual implementation of the present disclosure numerous implementation specific decisions must be made in order to achieve the developer s specific goals and these specific goals will vary for different implementations and different developers. It is understood that such a development effort might be complex and time consuming but would nevertheless be a routine undertaking of engineering for those of ordinary skill in the art having the benefit of this disclosure.

Furthermore it is to be understood that the phraseology or terminology used herein is for the purpose of description and not of restriction such that the terminology or phraseology of the present specification is to be interpreted by the skilled in the art in light of the teachings and guidance presented herein in combination with the knowledge of the skilled in the relevant art s . Moreover it is not intended for any term in the specification or claims to be ascribed an uncommon or special meaning unless explicitly set forth as such.

The various aspects disclosed herein encompass present and future known equivalents to the known modules referred to herein by way of illustration. Moreover while aspects and applications have been shown and described it would be apparent to those skilled in the art having the benefit of this disclosure that many more modifications than mentioned above are possible without departing from the inventive concepts disclosed herein.

