---

title: System and method for monitoring and controlling an HVAC system
abstract: A system and method for monitoring and controlling an energy demand by an HVAC system utilizes a control device that is operably installed in the HVAC system. The system performs the following steps: receiving, in a control device, values of one or more parameters related to performance of the plurality of powered components; comparing the received values with corresponding predetermined threshold values; determining overloading of the electrical grid by a powered component based on respective values of one or more parameters being less than the corresponding predetermined threshold values for the powered component; and selectively controlling the operation of the powered component without disrupting operation of the remaining plurality of powered components.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09644856&OS=09644856&RS=09644856
owner: System Performance Technologies, LLC
number: 09644856
owner_city: Burkburnett
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20151029
---
This application for a utility patent is a continuation in part of a previously filed utility patent having the application Ser. No. 14 811 816 filed Jul. 28 2015 which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 62 030 025 filed Jul. 28 2014 the contents of which are incorporated by reference in full.

This invention relates to systems and methods for monitoring and controlling HVAC systems and more particularly to a system which continuously monitors the HVAC system and determines if maintenance is required.

It is important to maintain heating ventilating and air conditioning HVAC systems in good working order to maintain optimum energy efficiency. Clogged filters reduce the ability of the HVAC system to circulate air reducing effectiveness and requiring more energy. As it is generally difficult to determine the condition of a filter most filter replacements are performed on a time basis or a total operating hours basis. This can lead to a loss of efficiency if the filter becomes clogged unusually quickly for example due to heavy pollution in the area or a wasted filter replacement if the filter has not yet become significantly clogged.

The prior art teaches filter sensor systems that can determine and report when a filter becomes clogged by monitoring changes in current and voltage. Keown U.S. Pat. No. 6 842 117 teaches a filter condition sensing circuit is disclosed including current and voltage sensors and a computer processor. The current and voltage sensors produce signals indicating magnitudes of electrical current and voltage respectively provided to an electric motor used to move a fluid a gas or liquid through a filter element. During a first time period the computer processor uses the signals to determine an acceptable range of electrical power required by the motor. During a second time period the computer processor uses the signals to determine a magnitude of electrical power required by the motor. When the magnitude of electrical power is within the acceptable range of electrical power the computer processor generates a signal indicating a normal condition of the filter element.

While this reference teaches monitoring the system it is not able to take any action itself in the event of the filter becoming clogged it can only report that the filter requires replacement.

In addition to monitoring the condition of the filter associated with the HVAC system it is also important to monitor the status of the system itself to detect mechanical problems that can lead to inefficient operation and also to failure of the system.

Other prior art systems measure other parameters of the HVAC system to determine the operational efficiency of the system and to report potential mechanical problems based upon measured differences in temperature. For example Hoog et al. U.S. Pat. No. 6 385 510 teaches an HVAC monitoring computer that monitors the condition and efficiency of the HVAC system based upon measured differences in temperature input vs output and notifies a central computer when the condition or efficiency falls below a certain industry standard.

While this prior art system teaches the monitoring of the HVAC system it does not enable active control over the system. The present invention teaches a system that enables monitoring of the HVAC system similar to the prior art device but also enables active control over the system using existing network architecture as described in the following summary.

The present invention teaches certain benefits in construction and use which give rise to the objectives described below.

The present invention provides a system and method for monitoring and controlling an HVAC system. The system has a control device to monitor the HVAC system to ensure that the system operates as energy efficiently as possible and that maintenance is performed at suitable times. The device controls the HVAC system and is able to turn off or otherwise control components of the HVAC system responsive to maintenance status.

A primary objective of the present invention is to provide a system and method for monitoring and controlling an HVAC system the system having advantages not taught by the prior art.

Another objective is to provide a control device for monitoring the efficiency and or efficacy of the system.

A further objective is to provide a control device for monitoring the status of a filter of the HVAC system and or other similar components of the system.

A further objective is to provide a control device for controlling the operation of the HVAC system and or various components of the system responsive to the efficiency and or efficacy of the system and or the status of the filter and or other similar components.

Other features and advantages of the present invention will become apparent from the following more detailed description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings which illustrate by way of example the principles of the invention.

The above described drawing figures illustrate the invention a system for monitoring and controlling an HVAC system .

The control device includes one or more computer devices that include executable code that when executed enables the system to perform processes that are described in greater detail below. The processor may include for example microprocessors microcomputers microcontrollers digital signal processors central processing units state machines logic circuits and or any devices that manipulate signals based on operational instructions. Among other capabilities the processor may be configured to fetch and execute computer readable instructions in a memory associated with the control device for performing tasks such as signal transcoding data processing input output processing power control and or other functions. The computer memory may comprise of any computer readable medium known in the art related art or developed later including for example a processor or multiple processors operatively connected together volatile memory e.g. RAM non volatile memory e.g. flash etc. disk drive etc. or any combination thereof. In some embodiments the computer memory may be installed on integrated with or operatively connected to a server such as a server as illustrated and discussed below.

The control device may include a variety of known related art or later developed interface s not shown including software interfaces e.g. an application programming interface a graphical user interface etc. hardware interfaces e.g. cable connectors a keyboard a card reader a barcode reader a biometric scanner an interactive display screen a monitor etc. or both.

In the embodiment of the control device further includes a transceiver i.e. any known network connection device that may be used to wirelessly communicate with a network in this embodiment with a home network that is established in a home business or other suitable location. The home network may include for example one or more of the Wide Area Networks WANs Local Area Networks LANs analog or digital wired and wireless telephone networks e.g. a PSTN Integrated Services Digital Network ISDN a cellular network and Digital Subscriber Line xDSL radio television cable satellite and or any other delivery or tunneling mechanism for carrying data. Network may include multiple networks or sub networks each of which may include for example a wired or wireless data pathway. The network may include a circuit switched voice network a packet switched data network or any other network able to carry electronic communications. For example the network may include networks based on the Internet protocol IP or asynchronous transfer mode ATM and may support voice using for example VoIP Voice over ATM or other comparable protocols used for voice video and data communications.

The control device may be operably connected to various sensors for gathering the necessary data as discussed in greater detail below. In this embodiment there are three temperature sensors T T and T collectively temperature sensors as well as a current sensor and a voltage sensor . As shown in the temperature sensors in this embodiment are operably positioned to gather required data. In this embodiment a first temperature sensor T is positioned adjacent a return air e.g. duct of the HVAC system a second temperature sensor T is positioned adjacent a supply air e.g. duct of the HVAC system and a third temperature sensor T is positioned outside of the home or other structure to determine the outside temperature. In alternative embodiments the temperature sensors may be placed elsewhere for determining operational efficiency of the HVAC system .

Temperature readings from the plurality of temperature sensors and in particular changes in the differences T between the first temperature sensor T and the second temperature sensor T are useful for determining from the temperature readings the operational efficiency of the HVAC system . Changes in the T of the temperatures may be used to determine operational efficiency of the system . If the readings indicate that the HVAC system falls below a threshold efficiency such as from a mechanical failure or other cause the system selectively controls the operation of the HVAC system to turn off power to at least some of the powered components such as the compressor .

The current sensor and the voltage sensor are operably connected with the HVAC system as discussed below in more detail for monitoring the operation of the HVAC system . Other sensors may also be included such as humidity sensing equipment not shown further sensors for monitoring vibration harmonics other temperature sensors etc. along with any other sensors known in the art that may be useful for the function of the system. In this embodiment humidity data and outside temperature data is gathered from existing systems not shown by the central server and or the third temperature sensor T and transmitted via a network device to the control device over an external network which may be a public network e.g. the Internet . Examples of the network device may include but are not limited to a DSL modem a wireless access point a set top box STB a router a base station and a gateway having a predetermined computing power sufficient for seamlessly communicating with other networked devices and networks using any suitable protocols known in the art related art or developed later.

In the embodiment of the HVAC system may further include a thermostat that includes a computer processor and a computer memory . The thermostat enables the control device to operably control the HVAC system as discussed in greater detail below over the home network or in some embodiments the public network such as the Internet.

In some embodiments the control device may be integrated installed on or operatively associated with the HVAC system or the central server in communication with the HVAC system. The central server may be implemented using any of a variety of computing devices including for example a general purpose computing device multiple networked servers arranged in clusters or as a server farm a mainframe or so forth with any arrangement of processors and memory devices that are determined suitable by one skilled in the art. The server may receive indications such as notifications or alerts which may be audio visual haptic or any combination thereof from the control device regarding the operation of the HVAC system itself or various units or components associated with the HVAC system.

In one embodiment the central server may be controlled by a power company government authority or agency or other suitable entity and the central server is able to selectively turn off any of the powered components i.e. the blower motor the compressor etc. necessary in the event of a power outage. Priority may be determined in a variety of manner taking into account various factors. Some homes may be given priority for deactivation if they have agreed to receive early termination of service in the event of a power shortage for example in exchange for lower pricing or other rewards .

Priority may also be given in relation to the efficiency of the equipment. For example if the system determines that a given compressor is operating at a low efficiency due to lack of maintenance it may be selected for deactivation in advance of another home that has properly maintained their HVAC system . Similarly an indication that a filter has not been changed and the system is therefore operating at lower efficiency may result in the system receiving early shutdown in the event of a power shortage.

This arrangement results in the homeowners having incentives to maintain their HVAC systems in good operating order operating with maximum efficiency and therefore lowering the load on the power grid.

The HVAC system includes a fluid flow producing device for producing a flow in the fluid from the fluid inlet to the fluid outlet . As indicated in the fluid flow producing device is connected to an electric motor . The motor is connected to an alternating current a.c. power source via a pair of conductors A and B collectively conductors . It is noted that a connection device e.g. a switch or relay not shown would also expectedly exist between the motor and the a.c. power source .

In general the motor converts electrical energy from the a.c. power source to mechanical energy. The fluid flow producing device is actuated i.e. driven by the motor and the fluid flow producing device operates when the motor operates.

As is typical the motor has a shaft not shown that rotates when the motor is operating. The fluid flow producing device is connected to the shaft and is operated by the rotating shaft. For example the fluid flow producing device may rotate when operating and may be connected to the shaft of the motor either directly or via a belt chain or gear drive mechanism. The fluid flow producing device may be for example a fan blade or propeller for producing gas flow or an impeller for producing liquid flow.

The HVAC system also includes a filter element positioned between the fluid inlet and the fluid outlet for removing particulates from the fluid. The fluid flows through the filter element as indicated in and the filter element filters particulates from the fluid as the fluid flows through the filter element . The filter element is preferably located between the fluid inlet and the fluid flow producing device as shown in such that particulates are removed from the fluid by the filter element before the fluid reaches the flow producing device . The filter element is preferably removable for cleaning and or replacement.

In one embodiment the HVAC system includes the fluid flow producing device is a fan for moving air through the HVAC system. The filter element filters airborne particulates such as dust and pollen from the air as the air moves through the filter element . In another embodiment the HVAC system is in the form of a fluid delivery system that includes a liquid pumping system not shown . The fluid flow producing device and the motor form a pump for moving the liquid through the liquid pumping system. The filter element filters particulates suspended in the liquid from the liquid as liquid flows through the filter element .

The HVAC system also includes a filter condition indicating system including a filter condition sensing circuit in communication with the control device and coupled to a filter status indicator . In general the a filter condition sensing circuit determines a condition of the filter element based on signals received from the current sensor and the voltage sensor and sends a signal to the filter status indicator indicative of the condition of the filter element . In one embodiment the filter condition sensing circuit may communicate sensor signals to the control device for determining performance of the filter element and inherently of the HVAC system or the HVAC system.

In general the filter status indicator indicates the condition of the filter element e.g. to a user or any interconnecting device such as the central server . The filter status indicator may include for example a green indicator lamp or light emitting diode and a red indicator lamp or light emitting diode. When the condition of the filter element is normal i.e. not overly restrictive the green indicator lamp or light emitting diode may be illuminated and the red indicator lamp or light emitting diode may not be illuminated. On the other hand when the condition of the filter element is abnormal i.e. overly restrictive the red indicator lamp or light emitting diode may be illuminated and the green indicator lamp or light emitting diode may not be illuminated.

As indicated in the filter condition sensing circuit includes the current sensor the voltage sensor and a computer processor . In the embodiment of the current sensor is coupled into to the conductor B such that the current sensor is located in an electrical current path of the motor . The current sensor senses or measures a magnitude of electrical current provided to the motor and produces a signal indicative of the magnitude of electrical current provided to the motor . The current sensor provides a signal to the computer processor .

The a.c. electrical current I provided to the motor is expectedly sinusoidal and given by sin 2 where Iis a maximum amplitude of the a.c. current f is the frequency of the a.c. current e.g. 60 Hz and t time. In contemplated embodiments the signal produced by the current sensor is indicative of the maximum amplitude of the a.c. current Iprovided to the motor .

The voltage sensor is connected to each of the conductors A and B providing electrical power to the motor . The voltage sensor senses or measures a magnitude of electrical voltage provided to the motor via the pair of conductors A and B and produces a signal indicative of the magnitude of electrical voltage provided to the motor . The voltage sensor provides the signal to the computer processor .

The a.c. electrical voltage V provided to the motor is expectedly sinusoidal and given by sin 2 where Vis a maximum amplitude of the a.c. voltage f is the frequency of the a.c. voltage e.g. 60 Hz and t time. In contemplated embodiments the signal produced by the voltage sensor is indicative of the maximum amplitude of the a.c. voltage Vprovided to the motor .

The computer processor may use the signals from the current sensor and the voltage sensor to produce the signal sent to the filter status indicator . Alternately the computer processor may use the signals from the current sensor and the voltage sensor to produce an output signal and the output signal may be used to produce the signal . The computer processor may communicate the signals to the control device for determining performance of the HVAC system .

Single phase a.c. induction motors are commonly used in fans and pumps. Accordingly in the embodiment of motor is a single phase a.c. induction motor having a rotor positioned within a surrounding stator. The stator contains a number of conductor windings. When a.c. electrical voltage is applied to the windings an a.c. electrical current flows through the windings and a moving magnetic field is created around the stator. The magnetic field created by the stator induces a current in the rotor and the current in the rotor creates a second magnetic field about the rotor. The interaction of the two magnetic fields produces a torque on the rotor causing the rotor to rotate with respect to the stator. The frequency of the a.c. electrical power provided to the stator determines a rate at which the magnetic field about the stator changes and thus a maximum speed at which the rotor rotates within the stator.

When the a.c. electrical power is first applied to the motor the rotor is not yet turning and the electrical impedance of the motor is relatively low. The initial starting current the locked rotor current of an a.c. induction motor is typically about 6 times the run current the full load amps or FLA . As the rotor of the motor starts to turn the electrical impedance of the motor increases and the alternating current drawn by the motor decreases as indicated in .

Conductors providing a.c. electrical power from the a.c. power source in to the motor including the conductors A and B have a certain amount of electrical resistance. The conductors also have electrical inductance but the inductance of the conductors may be ignored. Current provided to the motor via the conductors causes a voltage drop across the conductors and the a.c. voltage at the motor is the source a.c. voltage at the a.c. power source minus the voltage drop across the conductors . A typical electrical power distribution system is designed such that the voltage drop between the a.c. power source and the motor is less than 5 percent and typically 3 percent.

The higher starting current of the motor causes a greater voltage drop in the conductors providing the a.c. power from the a.c. power source to the motor . As a result the a.c. voltage provided to the motor when the motor is starting is reduced as indicated in . For example the initial starting voltage provided to the motor may be about 75 percent of the a.c. voltage at the a.c. power source in .

After the motor has started i.e. when the motor is running the a.c. voltage provided to and the a.c. current required by the motor are fairly constant as indicated in .

In a single phase a.c. system where a.c. voltage and a.c. current are provided to an electrical load and the a.c. voltage and the a.c. current are not in phase i.e. the load is reactive the apparent power delivered to the load is the product of the root mean square RMS values of the a.c. voltage V and the a.c. current I where V 0.707 Vand I 0.707 I and 0.5 

The average or real power delivered to the load is COS 0.5 COS where is the phase angle between the a.c. voltage and the a.c. current. The factor cos is called the power factor.

In and for the purposes described herein electrical power P required by the motor is generally given by where k can be any selected number. The factor k may be selected to be for example a number greater than 0 and less than or equal to 1. When k 0.5 P is a measure of apparent power.

While the factor k may be fixed for convenience the factor k need not be constant. For example when k 0.5 cos and phase angle between the a.c. voltage and the a.c. current varies P is a measure of average power.

As indicated in the motor requires i.e. draws more electrical power when starting than when running. It is noted that the power factor cos of motor is expectedly less then 1.0 when motor is running i.e. after the motor has started and even lower when motor is starting. For example the initial starting power factor cos of motor may be about 0.64 and may increase to approximately 0.8 when motor is running.

As indicated in the a.c. voltage provided to the motor when running varies within an acceptable a.c. voltage range . The acceptable a.c. voltage range is defined to be between a minimum acceptable a.c. voltage and a maximum acceptable a.c. voltage .

For example a nominal value of a.c. voltage provided to the motor when running may be a nominal value of the a.c. voltage at the a.c. power source minus the voltage drop across the conductors providing the a.c. electrical power from the a.c. power source to the motor typically 3 percent . The nominal value of the a.c. voltage at the a.c. power source e.g. from an electric utility may vary by for example plus or minus 5 percent. Thus the minimum acceptable a.c. voltage may be the nominal value of the a.c. voltage at the a.c. power source minus 8 percent and the maximum acceptable a.c. voltage may be the nominal value of the a.c. voltage at the a.c. power source plus 2 percent.

Similarly the a.c. current required by the motor when running varies within an acceptable a.c. current range as indicated in . The acceptable a.c. current range is defined to be between a minimum acceptable a.c. current and a maximum acceptable a. c. current .

During normal operation the a.c. current required by the motor when running is largely dependent on the a.c. voltage provided to the motor and the condition of the filter element of . When the a.c. voltage provided to the motor is fairly constant over time the a.c. current required by the motor when running is largely dependent on the condition of the filter element . In general as particulates trapped in the filter element impede the flow of fluid through the filter element the mechanical load on the motor is reduced and the magnitude of a.c. current required by the motor decreases.

Further the a.c. power required by the motor when running varies within acceptable a.c. power range as indicated in . The acceptable a.c. power range is defined to be between a minimum acceptable a.c. power and a maximum acceptable a.c. power . By definition the a.c. power required by the motor when running is dependent on the a.c. voltage provided to and the a.c. current required by the motor when running.

Like the a.c. current the a.c. power required by the motor when running during normal operation is largely dependent on the a.c. voltage provided to the motor and the condition of the filter element of . When the a.c. voltage provided to the motor is fairly constant over time the a.c. power required by the motor when running is largely dependent on the condition of the filter element . In general as particulates trapped in the filter element impede the flow of fluid through the filter element and the mechanical load on the motor is reduced as a result the magnitude of a.c. power required by the motor decreases.

In the embodiment described below the acceptable a.c. voltage range and the acceptable a.c. power range are determined during an initialization phase of the filter condition sensing circuit which precedes a normal operation phase of the filter condition sensing circuit . That is the minimum acceptable a.c. voltage the maximum acceptable a.c. voltage the minimum acceptable a.c. power and the maximum acceptable a.c. power are determined during the initialization phase.

As described above the signal produced by the current sensor and provided to the computer processor is indicative of the a.c. current required by the motor and the signal produced by the voltage sensor and provided to the computer processor is indicative of the a.c. voltage provided to the motor . In some embodiments the signal produced by the current sensor is indicative of the maximum a.c. current Iprovided to the motor and the signal produced by the voltage sensor is indicative of the maximum a.c. voltage Vprovided to the motor .

Each time the motor operates the computer processor may sample the signals from the current sensor and the voltage sensor at different times while the motor is running and average the samples to reduce measurement errors. For example in one embodiment depicted in the computer processor samples the signals from the current sensor and the voltage sensor at times t t and t where t t t t and t t. Time tis preferably long enough after tto allow the motor voltage and current to stabilize as indicated in . Time tmay be for example a few seconds after t. The 3 motor voltage samples may be averaged to form an a.c. voltage value and the 3 motor current samples may be averaged to form an a.c. current value.

In one embodiment the following pseudocode may be used to describe one method of determining the minimum acceptable a.c. voltage and the maximum acceptable a.c. voltage defining the acceptable a.c. voltage range and the minimum acceptable a.c. power and the maximum acceptable a.c. power defining the acceptable a.c. power range .

The initialization phase or learn period of the filter condition sensing circuit of during which the acceptable ranges of motor voltage and power are determined is preferably carried out over several hours of operation of the motor . For example the learn period may occur over a period of time during which the motor operates for between 6 and 10 hours.

The learn period preferably occurs after a new filter element is installed and a control system of the HVAC system of is reset. In one embodiment the filter status indicator of includes a red lamp or light emitting diode and a green lamp or light emitting diode and during the learn period the red and green lamps or light emitting diodes are illuminated alternately.

Values of motor voltage and current are obtained while the motor is running during a step . This may be carried out by sampling the signals from the current sensor and the voltage sensor at different times while the motor is running as shown in and described above and averaging the samples to reduce measurement errors.

During a step the values of the motor voltage and current obtained during the step are used to calculate the power required by the motor . The power calculation may be carried out as described above.

During a decision step a determination is made as to whether the calculated power required by the motor is within the acceptable power range e.g. the acceptable a.c. power range of . That is a determination is made as to whether the calculated power required by the motor is greater than or equal to a minimum acceptable power value e.g. the minimum acceptable a.c. power of and less than or equal to a maximum acceptable power value e.g. the maximum acceptable a.c. power of .

If the calculated power required by the motor is determined to be within the acceptable power range during the decision step a signal is generated during a step indicating a normal i.e. not overly restrictive status of the filter element . The signal may be for example provided to a filter status indicator e.g. the filter status indicator of . In response to the signal the filter status indicator may display a normal status of the filter element e.g. illuminate a green lamp or light emitting diode .

On the other hand if the calculated power required by the motor is not within the acceptable power range during the decision step a decision step is performed next. During the decision step a determination is made as to whether the motor voltage is within the acceptable voltage range e.g. the acceptable a.c. voltage range of . That is a determination is made as to whether the motor voltage is greater than or equal to a minimum acceptable voltage value e.g. the minimum acceptable a.c. voltage of and less than or equal to a maximum acceptable voltage value e.g. the maximum acceptable a.c. voltage of .

If the motor voltage is determined to be within the acceptable voltage range during the decision step a signal is generated during a step indicating an abnormal i.e. overly restrictive status of the filter element . The signal may be for example provided to the filter status indicator e.g. the filter status indicator of . In response to the signal the filter status indicator may display an abnormal status of the filter element e.g. illuminate a red lamp or light emitting diode .

On the other hand if the voltage provided to the motor is not within the acceptable voltage range during the decision step a step is performed next. During the step the acceptable power range is adjusted to compensate for the out of range motor voltage.

For example of the motor voltage is less than the minimum acceptable voltage value e.g. the minimum acceptable a.c. voltage of the minimum acceptable power value e.g. the minimum acceptable a.c. power of may be adjusted to compensate for the out of range motor voltage. In one embodiment the minimum acceptable power value is adjusted by multiplying the minimum acceptable power value by a ratio of the motor voltage to the minimum acceptable voltage value minimum acceptable power minumum acceptable power voltage value minimum acceptable voltage 

Similarly when the motor voltage is greater than the maximum acceptable voltage value e.g. the maximum acceptable a.c. voltage of the maximum acceptable power value may be adjusted by multiplying the maximum acceptable power value by a ratio of the motor voltage to the maximum acceptable voltage value maximum acceptable power maximum acceptable power voltage value maximum acceptable voltage 

During a decision step a determination is made as to whether the calculated power required by the motor is within the adjusted acceptable power range. That is a determination is made as to where the calculated power required by the motor is greater than or equal to the minimum acceptable power value and less than or equal to the maximum acceptable power value.

If the calculated power required by the motor is determined to be within the adjusted acceptable power range during the decision step the signal indicating the normal i.e. not overly restrictive status of the filter element is generated during a step . The signal may be for example provided to the filter status indicator e.g. the filter status indicator of . In response to the signal the filter status indicator may display the normal status of the filter element e.g. illuminate the green lamp or light emitting diode .

On the other hand if the motor voltage is determined to be outside of the adjusted acceptable voltage range during the decision step the signal indicating the abnormal i.e. overly restrictive status of the filter element is generated during a step . The signal may be for example provided to the filter status indicator e.g. the filter status indicator of . In response to the signal the filter status indicator may display the abnormal status of the filter element e.g. illuminate the red lamp or light emitting diode . The computer processor of may also store a pre programmed current threshold value. Following the initialization phase or learn period the value of motor current obtained while the motor is running e.g. during the step above may be compared to the pre programmed current threshold value. In one embodiment the filter status indicator of includes the red lamp or light emitting diode and the green lamp or light emitting diode as described above. If the motor current value is greater than the pre programmed current threshold value the signal from the computer processor may cause the filter status indicator to flash the red lamp or light emitting diode on and off.

The exemplary method may be described in the general context of computer executable instructions. Generally computer executable instructions may include routines programs objects components data structures procedures modules functions and the like that perform particular functions or implement particular data types. The computer executable instructions may be stored on a computer readable medium and installed or embedded in an appropriate device for execution. The order in which the method is described is not intended to be construed as a limitation and any number of the described method blocks may be combined or otherwise performed in any order to implement the method or an alternate method. Additionally individual blocks may be deleted from the method without departing from the spirit and scope of the present disclosure described herein. Furthermore the method may be implemented in any suitable hardware software firmware or combination thereof that exists in the related art or that is later developed.

The method describes without limitation implementation of the control device . Those having ordinary skill in the art would understand that the method may be modified appropriately for implementation in a various manners without departing from the scope and spirit of the disclosure.

At step baseline initial values are determined. In one embodiment the control device may store predetermined baseline or threshold values of various parameters that relate to the performance of one or more units e.g. an indoor unit not shown and an outdoor unit not shown that may be associated with the HVAC system. The indoor unit may include various powered components such as but not limited to an indoor fan not shown a filter such as the filter and a thermostat such as the thermostat . The outdoor unit may also include various powered components such as but not limited to a compressor not shown an outdoor fan not shown an evaporator coil not shown and a condenser coil not shown . Each of these components may have a predetermined circuitry or a group of circuits including but not limited to those known in the art related art or developed art. The HVAC system may be in communication with a electrical grid providing current voltage or power to these components.

In another embodiment after installation of the HVAC system the control device may monitor the efficiency efficacy of the units to get the as installed baseline values of the parameters. The control device may continue to monitor the efficiency efficacy of the units and therefore of the HVAC system until stopped. In order to determine the operating efficiency efficacy of the units or the HVAC system the control device may utilize readings calculations values of any one or combination of the parameters. Examples of these parameters include but are not limited to Indoor Fan System Voltage Current Power and or Energy Usage Outdoor Fan System Voltage Current Power and or Energy Usage Indoor and or Outdoor Fan System Vibrations or Harmonics Evaporator Coil Entering and or Leaving Air Temperature and or Humidity Evaporator Coil Entering and or Leaving Refrigerant Temperature and or Pressure Supply Air Temperature and or Humidity Return Air Temperature and or Humidity Indoor Unit Voltage Current Power and or Energy Usage Room Air Temperature and or Humidity Compressor Voltage Current Power and or Energy Usage Compressor Harmonics Condenser Coil Entering and or Leaving Refrigerant Pressure and or Temperature Condenser Coil Entering and or Leaving Air Temperature and or Humidity System Superheat and or Sub cooling Performance Indoor Unit Supply Air Static Pressure Indoor Unit Leaving Air Static Pressure Duct Work Static Pressure Room Air Temperature and or Humidity and or any system parameter known in the art related art or contemplated later that can be construed by one skilled in the art to relate to system component efficiency efficacy.

At step the efficiency efficacy of each unit is measured and compared to the baseline values. The control device may compare the measured parameter values or the correspondingly determined efficiency efficacy of either each unit or the complete HVAC system with the baseline or threshold values stored in the computer memory .

Based on such comparison the control device may be configured to perform various actions at step . In one embodiment the control device may monitor the as installed efficiency efficacy of the HVAC system and notify the user owner when conditions exist that are detrimental to the system efficiency efficacy exist. Conditions are determined to be detrimental when the system efficiency efficacy falls below an Action Level e.g. 90 of the as installed efficiency efficacy or any other standard or measure that may be desired to be set by one skilled in the art .

If the determined parameter or efficiency efficacy values of the units or the HVAC system is above the Action Level at step no action is taken and the control device returns to the step to continue monitoring and comparing the parameter or efficiency efficacy values. The Action Level is a predetermined value that may or may not be user adjustable. At step if the parameter or efficiency efficacy values of the units or the HVAC system is below the Action Level but above 90 the control device may generate a signal to the user so that a corrective action can be scheduled. The operator signal can be but is not limited to aural signals light signals electronic mail notification SMS messages voice cellular calls voice land line calls or radio wave signals. The main purpose of this signal is to inform the user owner that the system performance has degraded and that corrective measures are needed.

At step if the parameter or efficiency efficacy values of the units or the HVAC system is below 90 the control device may generate a signal to the user that a corrective action must be completed to continue system operation. The operator signal can be but is not limited to aural signals light signals electronic mail notification SMS messages voice cellular calls voice land line calls or radio wave signals. The main purpose of the signal is to inform the user owner that the system performance has degraded to an unacceptable level and that corrective measures must be taken before the timer expires.

At step the control device may start and monitor a timer not shown and wait for the corrective action to be taken by the user. If the timer duration has elapsed beyond a predefined threshold duration and the corrective measures have not been taken the control device may disable operation of at least one of the units or a component or the overall system at step . The control device may then wait for the corrective action to be taken. The control device may be reset and configured to determine whether the corrective action has been completed at step . If the corrective action is not completed within a predetermined time duration the control device may move back to step to disable one or more units components the overall system or any combination thereof in any order. However if the control device determines that the corrective action has been taken within a predetermined time duration the control device may enable one or more units components the overall system or any combination thereof in any order for use and re start the monitoring cycle by moving back to step .

Monitoring can be restarted with comparisons to the as installed performance or to the after corrective action performance. One exemplary method may compare to the as installed values. Notifications to the user owner can include but not be limited to aural signals light signals electronic mail notification SMS messages voice cellular calls voice land line calls or radio wave signals. The device can be constructed of any combination of electronic components including but not limited to numerical controllers sequential circuits relays contactors resistors capacitors voltage sensing devices current sensing devices pressure sensors temperature sensors humidity sensors and or switches. The device shall not be limited to the sensors listed here within or to the types of circuitry listed here within.

The exemplary method may be described in the general context of computer executable instructions. Generally computer executable instructions may include routines programs objects components data structures procedures modules functions and the like that perform particular functions or implement particular data types. The computer executable instructions may be stored on a computer readable medium and installed or embedded in an appropriate device for execution. The order in which the method is described is not intended to be construed as a limitation and any number of the described method blocks may be combined or otherwise performed in any order to implement the method or an alternate method. Additionally individual blocks may be deleted from the method without departing from the spirit and scope of the present disclosure described herein. Furthermore the method may be implemented in any suitable hardware software firmware or combination thereof that exists in the related art or that is later developed.

The method describes without limitation implementation of the control device . Those having ordinary skill in the art would understand that the method may be modified appropriately for implementation in a various manners without departing from the scope and spirit of the disclosure. The control device may include monitoring controlling circuitry sensors that are programmed wired and installed in a manner that allows for external control and monitoring via a network such as the internet utilizing cloud based data storage and control algorithms.

At step the control device may connect to a central server over a network such as the network which may be a public network such as the Internet. The central server may be a computing device having a computer processor similar to the processor and a computer memory similar to the computer memory . The central server may have a central program and a central database not shown operably installed on the computer memory of the central server . The central program of the central server may receive data corresponding to a baseline or threshold values of various parameters including efficiency efficacy of the HVAC system itself or various units and components of the HVAC system and b operation schedules of these units components and the overall HVAC system from a local database or in typical embodiments a large number of such device computers or directly from a user via a suitable interface known in the art related art or developed later. The data may be updated in real time or periodically and may be transmitted in any manner known in the art e.g. via a direct connection LAN Ethernet USB line or over the network where the connection may either be physical or wireless . The data is stored in the central database where it can then be compiled analyzed or otherwise used according to the needs of one skilled in the field.

At step the control device may check for the operation schedule of various units components and the overall HVAC system itself based on the data received from the central server and may determine if a unit or component of the HVAC system is scheduled for operation at step .

If a unit or component of the HVAC system is scheduled for operation the control device checks if that unit or component is previously scheduled to be disabled according to the operation schedule at step . If the unit or component was previously scheduled to be disabled the control device re enables that unit or component of the HVAC system at step and communicates the re enabled status of the unit or component to the central server . Otherwise at step the control device allows the unit or component to continue its ongoing operation and communicate the status of the unit or component to the central server .

However if the control device determines at step that a unit or component is not scheduled for operation according to the operation schedule received from the central server the control device may check if that unit or component is previously scheduled to be disabled at step . If that unit or component is previously scheduled to be disabled the control device and communicates the status of the unit or component to the central server . Otherwise at step the control device may disable operation of the unit or component and communicate the disabled status of the unit or component to the central server .

The cloud based nature of the control device while being in communication with the central server allows for continual improvement of the control device operation without requiring reprogramming rewiring re configuring the control device after installation. The control device has the ability to develop a baseline operational efficiency efficacy for the monitored unit or component of the HVAC system to aid in the determination of whether or not the monitored unit or component should be disabled to reduce electrical grid loading. The control device has the ability to be disabled if operational efficiency efficacy has fallen below prescribed performance levels. The control device has the ability to be remotely scheduled for periods of operation based on the electrical grid loading. The control device reduces the need for whole building electrical disconnection to reduce electrical grid loading rather implementing high load unit or component disabling and leaving other lower loading unit or component untouched. The control device operates over existing network topologies including Ethernet and the World Wide Web and does not require a specialized networking controller. Implementation of the control device does not require modification or obsolescence of existing electrical device controllers. Implementation of the control device does not require modifications to the existing electrical distribution grid or its control devices structures.

One embodiment of the present subject matter provides a method for controlling an energy demand by an HVAC heating ventilation air conditioning and refrigeration system including a plurality of powered components in communication with a electrical grid the method comprising receiving using a transceiver on a control device in operable connection with the HVAC system and having a processor and a computer memory values of one or more parameters related to performance of the plurality of powered components being powered by the electrical grid comparing using the processor on the control device the received values with corresponding predetermined threshold values stored in the computer memory for each of the plurality of powered components determining using the processor on the control device overloading of the electrical grid by a powered component among the plurality of powered components based on respective values of one or more parameters being less than the corresponding predetermined threshold values for the powered component and selectively controlling using the processor on the control device the operation of the powered component based on the electrical grid determined to be overloaded without disrupting operation of the remaining plurality of powered components being powered by the electrical grid.

One aspect of the embodiment provides the one or more parameters being selected from a group of parameters including voltage current power energy usage harmonics temperature humidity and pressure.

In a still another aspect of the embodiment provides the control device being in communication with a server over a public network wherein the control device is controlled by the central server. In a further aspect of the embodiment provides for disabling the operation of the powered component based on the electrical grid determined to be overloaded without disrupting the operation of the remaining plurality of powered components being powered by the electrical grid.

In another aspect of the embodiment provides for selectively controlling the operation of at least one circuit among a plurality of circuits associated with the powered component based on the electrical grid determined to be overloaded without disrupting the operation of the remaining plurality of circuits being powered by the electrical grid.

In yet another aspect of the embodiment provides for disabling the operation of the at least one circuit among the plurality of circuits associated with the powered component based on the electrical grid determined to be overloaded without disrupting the operation of the remaining plurality of circuits being powered by the electrical grid.

In still another aspect of the embodiment provides for the step of controlling to define periods of operation for the powered component or the at least one circuit associated with the powered component. In a further aspect of the embodiment provides for the at least one circuit has higher priority than the remaining plurality of circuits where a priority associated with each of the plurality of circuits is stored in the computer memory of the control device. In another aspect of the embodiment provides for the powered component being selectively controlled to adjust the respective values of one or more parameters within an acceptable range of values that are predefined and stored in the computer memory.

As used in this application the terms computer processor memory and other computer related components are hereby expressly defined to include any arrangement of computer s processor s memory device or devices and or computer components either as a single unit or operably connected and or networked across multiple computers or distributed computer components to perform the functions described herein.

As used in this application the words a an and one are defined to include one or more of the referenced item unless specifically stated otherwise. Also the terms have include contain and similar terms are defined to mean comprising unless specifically stated otherwise. Furthermore the terminology used in the specification provided above is hereby defined to include similar and or equivalent terms and or alternative embodiments that would be considered obvious to one skilled in the art given the teachings of the present patent application.

