---

title: System and method of communicating presence information
abstract: A method of communicating presence information is provided. The method includes receiving () at a controller node a location identification indication from a mobile device. The location identification is based on a location identifier received at the mobile device from a broadcast node. A conference status of the mobile device is determined () at the controller node based on the location identification indication and a device identifier of the mobile device. The mobile device is instructed to update () a presence indication when the mobile device meets a conference status criteria.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09497319&OS=09497319&RS=09497319
owner: Ale USA, Inc.
number: 09497319
owner_city: Calabasas
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150521
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 62 062 792 filed Oct. 10 2014.

The present invention generally relates to communicating presence information of a conference participant. More particularly the present invention is directed to modifying presence information about a conference participant based on the conference participant s location.

A conference system can be utilized to facilitate communications between a plurality of users. For example an audio visual and or multimedia presentation can be shared with the plurality of users through a conference system. A conference system can include a device that allows users to transmit and receive audio visual or multimedia information such as a communication bridge or the like. However users of a conference system are typically located in multiple physical locations making it difficult for participants to identify participants of the conference at alternative locations.

The present invention may solve one or more of the above mentioned problems and or achieve one or more of the above mentioned desirable features. Other features and or advantages may become apparent from the description which follows.

An aspect of the invention provides a method of communicating presence information. The method includes receiving at a controller node a location identification indication from a mobile device. The location identification is based on a location identifier received at the mobile device from a broadcast node. A conference status of the mobile device is determined at the controller node based on the location identification indication and a device identifier of the mobile device. The mobile device is instructed to update a presence indication when the mobile device meets a conference status criteria.

In embodiments the location identifier received at the mobile device is a globally unique identifier GUID associated with the broadcast node.

In embodiments determining the conference status of the mobile device further comprises determining whether the mobile device is permitted to participate in the conference when the mobile device is associated with an uninvited participant of the conference.

In embodiments determining whether the mobile device is associated with an invited participant of the conference comprises comparing the device identifier of the mobile device to a predetermined list of device identifiers associated with conference participants.

In embodiments the mobile device receives the location identifier when the mobile device is located within a broadcast area of the broadcast node.

In embodiments the controller node further comprises a look up table the look up table comprising a record for each of the broadcast nodes the record including the location identifier.

In embodiments the record further comprises an identifier of a conference device located at the same location as the broadcast node .

In embodiments the record further comprises a location name associated to the location identifier the location name being related to the broadcast area of the broadcast node.

In embodiments the controller node is further configured to match the location identification indication received from the mobile device to the location identifier of the broadcast node which is stored in the look up table.

In embodiments the controller node is further configured to send to the broadcast node the location identifier which is stored in the look up table.

In embodiments the controller node is further configured to transmit a message to each confirmed participant of a conference wherein the message includes instructions to update the presence indication associated with the mobile device when the mobile device meets the conference status criteria.

In embodiments the location identifier broadcast from the broadcast node is a globally unique identifier GUID associated with the broadcast node.

In embodiments the controller node is further configured to compare the device identifier of the mobile device to a predetermined list of device identifiers associated with conference participants to determine whether the mobile device is associated with an invited participant of the conference.

In embodiments the controller node is further configured to instruct the presence node to maintain a current presence indication associated with the mobile device when the mobile device does not meet the conference status criteria.

In embodiments the invention also provides a system of communicating presence information comprising 

In embodiments the broadcast node is further configured to receive and store the location identifier.

In embodiments the broadcast node is further configured to transmit the location identifier to the mobile device when the mobile device is located within the predetermined broadcast area of the broadcast node.

Other aspects of the invention including apparatus articles methods systems assemblies and the like which constitute part of the invention will become more apparent upon reading the following detailed description of the exemplary embodiments in view of the drawings.

Reference will now be made in detail to exemplary embodiments and methods of the invention. It should be noted however that the invention in its broader aspects is not necessarily limited to the specific details representative materials and methods and illustrative examples shown and described in connection with the exemplary embodiments and methods.

Mobile device is any device configured to communicate over system using a communication interface. For example the mobile device can be a wireless device such as a laptop a smart phone a tablet a remote terminal unit or any other wireless network accessible device and combinations thereof. In an exemplary embodiment mobile device is configured to receive a location identification indication from broadcast node when the mobile device is within broadcast area .

The mobile device can transmit and or receive information from controller node over communication link . Communication link can use various communication media such as air space metal optical fiber or some other signal propagation path including combinations thereof.

The interface of the mobile device includes one or more transceivers for transmitting and receiving data over communication system . In an exemplary embodiment each mobile device can include a transceiver associated with at least one long range wireless protocol at least one short range wireless protocol and or another type of communication protocol.

Mobile device can communicate information over system using various communication services. For example information communicated over system can be transmitted in various forms such as email internet links digital messaging graphic messaging video messaging audio messaging text messaging SMS messaging etc.

Mobile device includes a processor and associated circuitry to execute or direct the execution of computer readable instructions to obtain information. Mobile device retrieves and executes software from storage which can include a disk drive a flash drive memory circuitry or some other memory device and which can be local or remotely accessible. The software includes computer programs firmware or some other form of machine readable instructions and may include an operating system utilities drivers network interfaces applications or some other type of software including combinations thereof. Mobile device can receive instructions and other input at a user interface. In an exemplary embodiment the user interface of device can include an input device such as a peripheral or a touch sensitive display to allow a user to input instructions associated with communications over the system .

In an exemplary embodiment a client or application interface is installed on the mobile device to facilitate communications over system . For example the interface is associated with an enterprise telecommunication switch. The interface can provide access to various enterprise telecommunication switch services such as conference participation session recording instant messaging video broadcast etc. where mobile device can access the various enterprise telecommunication switch services via controller node over communication link .

Broadcasting node is a network node configured to broadcast a location identification indication within a predetermined broadcast area . Broadcasting node can be a uniquely identifiable radiating device having a short range wireless communication radius up to approximately 60 meters. For example the broadcasting node can be a BLUETOOTH IBEACON or the like where the uniquely identifiable indicator transmitted by the broadcasting node corresponds to an indication of location identification. The location identification indicator corresponds to a location in which the broadcasting node is positioned. For example when the broadcasting node is located in a room in a building such as Room 2020 or Lexington Video Conference Room the location identification indicator is unique to the location e.g. the room in which the broadcasting node is positioned. In other words each broadcasting node within system transmits a different location identification indicator and the broadcast area of the broadcast node substantially covers the physical area of a room.

The correlation between a location identifier associated with each broadcasting node and a location of each broadcasting node can be provided in various formats. For example a look up table can be created where an entry associated with each broadcasting node can include a broadcast node device identifier such as an IP address or other device identifier unique to the broadcasting node the unique location identifier associated with the broadcast node and a character string associated with the location of the broadcast node e.g. Room 2020 or Lexington Video Conference Room . In addition a conference device identifier can be included with each entry where the conference device identifier is associated with the conference device located at the same location as the broadcast node .

In an exemplary embodiment the broadcasting node continuously transmits the location identification indication at a predetermined interval. Alternatively the broadcasting node can be configured to only transmit the location identification indication when a conference device is in use.

Broadcasting node can include a processor and associated circuitry to execute or direct the execution of computer readable instructions to obtain information. Broadcasting node can retrieve and execute software from storage which can include a disk drive a flash drive memory circuitry or some other memory device and which can be local or remotely accessible. The software includes computer programs firmware or some other form of machine readable instructions and may include an operating system utilities drivers network interfaces applications or some other type of software including combinations thereof.

Conference device is a device configured to facilitate conference communications over system . Conference device can support the communication of an audio visual and or multimedia presentation between two or more participants over system where at least two of the participants are located at different locations. For example the conference device can be any device configured to allow users to transmit and or receive audio visual or multimedia information such as a communication bridge or the like. It is noted that the broadcasting node and the conference device can be separate devices. Alternatively the broadcasting node and the conference device can be integrated together.

The conference device can transmit to and or receive information from controller node over communication link . Communication link can use various communication media such as air space metal optical fiber or some other signal propagation path including combinations thereof.

Conference device includes an interface having one or more transceivers for transmitting and receiving data over communication system . In an exemplary embodiment conference device can include a transceiver associated with at least a wireless protocol at least one wired protocol and or another type of communication protocol.

Conference device can communicate information over system using various communication services. For example information communicated over system can be transmitted in various forms such as audio digital information such as email internet links digital messaging graphic messaging video messaging audio messaging text messaging SMS messaging etc.

Conference device can include a processor and associated circuitry to execute or direct the execution of computer readable instructions to obtain information. Conference device can retrieve and execute software from storage which can include a disk drive a flash drive memory circuitry or some other memory device and which can be local or remotely accessible. The software includes computer programs firmware or some other form of machine readable instructions and may include an operating system utilities drivers network interfaces applications or some other type of software including combinations thereof. Conference device can receive instructions and other input at a user interface.

Controller node can be any network node configured to manage monitor and or establish communications over system . The controller node can be further configured to record and replay activities that have occurred over the communication system such as any communications associated with a conference provide an application programming interface API for any client applications built for the network etc. In an exemplary embodiment the API can be used to generate the look up table reflecting the correlation between a location identifier associated with each broadcasting node and a location of each broadcasting node . During the deployment of the system the controller node communicates with each broadcast node to determine a broadcast node device identifier associated with each broadcast node and each broadcast node device identifier is then stored in the look up table at the controller node . For instance each broadcast node can transmit a unique broadcast node device identifier to the controller node . This transmission can be in response to a request sent by the controller node or could be initiated by the broadcast node when a connection is established with the network. In this case the unique broadcast node device identifier is pre assigned to the broadcast node prior to deployment e.g. static device identifier where the pre assigned broadcast node device identifier could be provided by the manufacturer of the broadcast node or pre assigned by a network administrator. Alternatively the unique broadcast node device identifier can be assigned to the broadcast node by the controller node e.g. static device identifier . For instance when the broadcast node establishes a connection with the network the controller node can assign the broadcast node a broadcast node device identifier where the controller node stores the broadcast node device identifier within the look up table. This broadcast node device identifier is then transmitted to the broadcast node where the broadcast node locally stores the unique broadcast node device identifier. Using the API the controller node then creates an entry associated with each broadcast node where each entry includes the broadcast node device identifier the location identifier associated with each broadcasting node an indication of location of each broadcasting node e.g. information associated with the physical location including a character string etc. and or a related conference device identifier.

In addition the controller node stores a list of conference participants a device identifier associated with each conference participant and information associated with the location identification indication transmitted by each broadcast node within the system . Other additional identifying information about the participants of the conference can be stored at the controller node . For example details regarding the conference can be stored at the controller node including a start time an expected conference duration time a conference identifier an identification of a user responsible or the owner of the conference and any other exiting metadata about the conference.

In an exemplary embodiment the controller node can be further configured to determine a conference status associated with a user of a mobile device . For example after a conference is initiated using the conference device and the mobile device receives a location identification indication within the broadcast area of the broadcast node the controller node receives a communication from the mobile device including information associated with the location identification indication and a device identifier of the mobile device. Based on the location identification indication controller node can determine whether a conference is established using the conference device . Moreover based on the device identifier controller node can determine whether a participant associated with the mobile device is included within the list of identified participants.

The controller node can transmit to and or receive information from presence node over communication link . Communication link can use various communication media such as air space metal optical fiber or some other signal propagation path including combinations thereof.

Controller node includes an interface having one or more transceivers for transmitting and receiving data over communication system . In an exemplary embodiment controller node can include a transceiver associated with at least a wireless protocol at least one wired protocol and or another type of communication protocol.

Controller node can communicate information over system using various communication services. For example information communicated over system can be transmitted in various forms such as audio digital information such as email internet links digital messaging graphic messaging video messaging audio messaging text messaging SMS messaging etc.

Controller node can include a processor and associated circuitry to execute or direct the execution of computer readable instructions to obtain information. Controller node can retrieve and execute software from storage which can include a disk drive a flash drive memory circuitry or some other memory device and which can be local or remotely accessible. The software includes computer programs firmware or some other form of machine readable instructions and may include an operating system utilities drivers network interfaces applications or some other type of software including combinations thereof. Controller node can receive instructions and other input at a user interface.

In an embodiment a predefined look up table comprises a record for each of the broadcast nodes the record including the unique location identifier corresponding to a location of the broadcast node .

Presence node is configured to accept store and communicate presence information associated with users of system . In an exemplary embodiment presence node is a presence server that stores information associated with the ability and willingness of a user of system to communicate. For example the presence information is utilized to create a personal availability record of a user of system where the personal availability record can be made available for distribution to one or more other users of system . The presence information can include at least one of a location indication of a user a communication status of a user such as available busy away etc. a unique message provided by the user etc. The presence information can be communicated to other users to represent the presence and or availability of a specific user. The presence information can be determined for each user of the system or any specifically identified user.

Presence node includes an interface having one or more transceivers for transmitting and receiving data over communication system . In an exemplary embodiment presence node can include a transceiver associated with at least a wireless protocol at least one wired protocol and or other type of communication protocol.

Presence node can include a processor and associated circuitry to execute or direct the execution of computer readable instructions to obtain information. Presence node can retrieve and execute software from storage which can include a disk drive a flash drive memory circuitry or some other memory device and which can be local or remotely accessible. The software includes computer programs firmware or some other form of machine readable instructions and may include an operating system utilities drivers network interfaces applications or some other type of software including combinations thereof.

In operation system can facilitate the communication of presence information of a user associated with mobile device . When a user enters a broadcast area of broadcasting node mobile device receives a location identification indication unique to broadcasting node . For example the location identification indication can be a globally unique identifier GUID associated with the broadcasting node . Mobile device then transmits the location identification indication and a device identifier associated with the mobile device to the controller node . Controller node determines whether a conference has been established using conference device based on the location identification indication. For example controller node determines the location of the conference device . In an exemplary embodiment the controller node uses the location identification indication received from the broadcasting node at the mobile device to determine the unique conference device and the corresponding location using the look up table stored at the controller node . Based on the location identification indication and using the location information controller node monitors and determines whether a conference has been established using conference device .

When controller node determines that a conference has been established at the location associated using conference device controller node determines whether a user associated with mobile device is an invited participant in the conference based on the device identifier. For example a predetermined list of participants can be stored at the controller node where a unique device identifier is correlated with each participant.

When a conference has been established and the user associated with the device identifier of mobile device is included in the predetermined list of participants of the conference a presence indicator is modified to reflect that the user associated with mobile device is present at a location that has access to the conference. In an exemplary embodiment when controller node receives a location identification indication and device identifier from a user that is not on a predetermined list of participants and a predetermined criteria has been established indicating that all uninvited participants at the location associated with the conference device are to be included in the presence indication controller node can update the presence information to reflect that the uninvited user is present within the broadcast area .

Presence information can be communicated in various ways. A listing of all participants of the conference associated with conference device as well as various availability status indicators associated with each participant can be displayed on a device associated with each confirmed conference participant e.g. each participant who is within the broadcast area of the broadcast device . For example an image graphic or other visual representation can be displayed on the device associated with the confirmed conference participant. The device associated with the confirmed conference participant can be mobile device and or any other device configured to communicate over system such as a laptop or tablet device. Further an audio cue can be communicated when a participant joins the conference and it is determined that the participant is within the broadcast area of the broadcast device .

Presence information can be modified based on a user indication preference or automatically. In an exemplary embodiment after controller node determines that a conference has been established using conference device the user associated with mobile device is located within the broadcast area of the broadcast node and the user is a confirmed conference participant controller node can transmit an indication to mobile device to allow a user to control whether the user s presence information is communicated. For example controller node can instruct mobile device to display a prompt to the user indicating that the user is within broadcast area and a conference has been established using conference device and requesting whether the user would like to update the user s presence information to reflect that the user is present for the conference. When the user indicates that the presence information should reflect that the user is present for the conference the user s presence information is modified such that the user is added to a list of confirmed participants of the conference. When the user agrees to update presence information a presence message is transmitted to the controller node the controller node transmits the information to the presence node updating the user s presence status and the controller node transmits a message to each confirmed participant updating the presence information displayed on the device corresponding to each user. In an exemplary embodiment the presence information can include an indication of the user s location. For example the controller node can determine the location based on the look up table where the location is associated with a character string associated with the location of the broadcast node . A presence message can be sent to all confirmed participants of the conference indicating that the user is now at a particular location where the conference has been established. In an exemplary embodiment the presence message includes the character string associated with the location of the broadcast node e.g. Room 2020 .

In another exemplary embodiment the presence information can be updated automatically without any input from the user. For example after the controller node determines that the user is an invited participant to the established conference the controller node can instruct the presence node to update the status of the user and communicate a presence message to each confirmed conference participant to update the presence information associated with the user.

In yet another exemplary embodiment additional users can be participating in the conference from other locations where a broadcasting node is not present. When the controller node updates the presence status of the user associated with mobile device the additional users are also notified of the change in presence status of the user associated with mobile device . It is noted that the presence status of the users participating in the conference from locations without a broadcasting node is only updated when communications are initiated to join the conference.

At a location identification indication is received. For example controller node receives a location identification indication from mobile device . In an exemplary embodiment the location identification indication is based on a location identifier received at the mobile device from a broadcast node while the mobile device is within broadcast area . The location identification indication can include a GUID where the GUID is unique to broadcasting node . In addition mobile device can further communicate a device identifier to controller device where the device identifier is unique to mobile device .

A conference status is determined at and a presence indication is updated at as described further herein. For example controller node determines a conference status associated with mobile device based on the location identification indication and the device identifier associated with mobile device . In an exemplary embodiment illustrated in controller node determines the conference status by first determining whether a conference has been established and is in progress at . The controller node can determine whether a conference is in progress based on the location identification information. For example the controller node determines the location of the mobile device based on the location identifier received when the mobile device enters the broadcast area of the broadcast node . The controller node identifies a conference device associated with the location associated with the location identifier received by the mobile device. In this example controller node determines whether a conference has been established using conference device . When controller node determines that a conference has been established using conference device and that mobile device is within broadcast area controller node can further determine whether mobile device is associated with an invited participant of the conference at . However when controller node determines that a conference has not been established controller node determines that the presence status of the user associated with the mobile device is maintained at .

Controller node determines whether the user associated with mobile device is an invited participant of the established conference based on the device identifier associated with mobile device . For example controller node can compare the device identifier with a list of predetermined conference participants where each predetermined conference participant has a unique device identifier corresponding with each participant device. When controller node determines that mobile device is associated with an invited participant controller node initiates modifying the presence status of the user associated with mobile device at .

When the controller node determines that mobile device is not associated with an invited participant controller node can determine whether to identify the uninvited participant in the presence status at . For example when a predetermined criteria is selected within the system to identify uninvited conference participants in the presence information such as by a system administrator controller node initiates modifying the presence status of the uninvited participant at . When a predetermined criteria is not selected to identify uninvited conference participants controller node maintains the presence status of the user associated with mobile device at while allowing the user to participate in the established conference. Alternatively when the controller node determines that an uninvited participant is within the broadcast area controller node can prevent the uninvited participant from participating in the established conference or limit the uninvited participant s access to the established conference to a specific location. The controller node can prevent the uninvited participant from participating in the established conference by denying any request to establish communication to the conference device .

After the conference status of the mobile device is determined at the presence indication can be updated at . In an exemplary embodiment after controller node determines the conference status associated with mobile device controller node transmits an indication to mobile device to allow a user to control whether the user s presence information is communicated. For example controller node can instruct mobile device to display a prompt to the user indicating that the user is within broadcast area and a conference has been established using conference device and requesting whether the user would like to update the user s presence information to reflect that the user is present for the conference. When the user indicates that the presence information should reflect that the user is present for the conference the user s presence information is modified such that the user is added to a list of confirmed participants of the conference. When the user agrees to update presence information a presence message is transmitted to the controller node the controller node transmits the information to the presence node updating the user s presence status and the controller node transmits a message to each confirmed participant updating the presence information displayed on the device corresponding to each user. In an exemplary embodiment the presence information can include an indication of the user s location. For example a presence message can be sent to all confirmed participants of the conference indicating that the user is now in Room 2020 where the conference has been established.

In another exemplary embodiment the presence information can be updated automatically without any input from the user. For example after the controller node determines that the user is an invited participant to the established conference the controller node can instruct the presence node to update the status of the user and communicate a presence message to each confirmed conference participant to update the presence information associated with the user.

For the purposes of it is assumed that a conference has already been established using conference device . Specifically conference device can send a request to establish a conference to controller node based on an input received at the conference device . Alternatively controller node can instruct conference device to establish a conference without any prompt or input received at the conference device. In addition it is also assumed that broadcast node has initiated broadcasting a location identifier within the broadcast area . Broadcast node can initiate broadcasting the location identifier after the conference has been established or broadcast node can continually broadcast location identifier no matter whether a conference has been established or not. After broadcast node initiates broadcasting the location identifier broadcast node will broadcast the location identifier at a predetermined time interval. In an exemplary embodiment broadcast node continues to broadcast the location identifier until no mobile devices are detected within the broadcast area . For example broadcast node can be instructed to discontinue broadcasting the location identifier when the controller node no longer receives a location identification indication from any mobile device within the broadcast area.

After a conference has been established using conference device and mobile device receives a location identifier from broadcast node mobile device can transmit a location identification indication to the controller node . Controller node determines the conference status of the mobile device based on the location identification indication and when the user associated with the mobile device is an invited participant of the established conference controller node instructs mobile device to input a presence status preference. For example controller node can instruct mobile device to display a prompt to the user associated with mobile device indicating that the user is within broadcast area and a conference has been established using conference device and requesting whether the user would like to update the user s presence information to reflect that the user is present for the conference. When the user indicates that the presence information should reflect that the user is present for the conference the mobile device transmits an indication of presence status preference to controller node . When the user agrees to update presence information the controller node transmits the information to the presence node updating the user s presence status and the controller node transmits a message to each confirmed participant updating the presence information displayed on the device corresponding to each user. One of ordinary skill would recognize that while illustrates that controller node instructs mobile device to update presence status the message to update the presence status would be sent to all confirmed participants in the established conference.

Broadcast node continues to broadcast a location identifier during the conference. When mobile device is no longer within the broadcast area of the broadcast node mobile device can determine that a location identifier has not been received. For example when a user leaves the premises of the conference and moves beyond the broadcast area mobile device no longer receives location identifier messages from broadcast node . After a predetermined period of time expires and no location identifier is received by the mobile device mobile device transmits an indication of not receiving a location identifier from broadcast node to the controller node . Based on the indication of not receiving a location identifier controller node instructs presence node to update the presence status of the user associated with the mobile device . Controller node further instructs all devices associated with the conference to update the presence status of the user associated with mobile device to reflect that the user is no longer present within the broadcast area .

The signaling diagram illustrated in includes similar signaling flows as described in and only the different signaling flows will be discussed. Specifically illustrates a signaling diagram that contemplates initiating a presence status of a user associated with mobile device without any input from the user. For example after mobile device transmits the location identification indication to controller node . Controller node determines that the user associated with mobile device is an invited participant of the established conference controller node instructs presence node to update the presence information of the user associated with the mobile device and instructs all devices associated with the conference to update the presence status of the user associated with the mobile device to reflect that the user is no longer present within the broadcast area .

All of the above embodiments contemplate that a conference already be established using conference device . However when the mobile device transmits the location identification indication prior to a conference being established using the conference device controller device determines that no conference has been established. In one exemplary embodiment the controller device can instruct the mobile device to continue to transmit the location identification indication until a conference has been established before the controller device updates any presence information of the user associated with the mobile device . In an alternative embodiment after receiving the location identification indication from mobile device and determined that no conference has been established using conference device controller device can determine whether the user associated with mobile device is an invited participant of a conference that is scheduled to begin within a predetermined period of time. When the user is an invited participant of a conference scheduled to begin within a predetermined period of time controller node can initiate updating presence information of the user associated with the mobile device prior to establishing a conference. For example when a user arrives in the room within the broadcast area 15 minutes prior to the scheduled conference controller node updates the presence information of the user of the mobile device prior to establishing a conference using conference device .

Mobile devices are any device configured to communicate over system using a communication interface. For example the mobile devices can be a wireless device such as a laptop a smart phone a tablet a remote terminal unit or any other wireless internet accessible device and combinations thereof. In an exemplary embodiment mobile devices are configured to receive a first location identification indication from broadcast node when the mobile device are within broadcast area mobile devices are configured to receive a second location identification indication from broadcast node when mobile devices are within broadcast area and mobile devices are configured to receive a third location identification indication from broadcast node when mobile devices are within broadcast area . The first second and third location identification indications are all different from one another and are unique to the broadcasting node .

The mobile devices can transmit and or receive information from controller node over a communication link. However these communication links are not illustrated in for the purposes of clarity. The communication links between mobile devices and controller node can use various communication media such as air space metal optical fiber or some other signal propagation path including combinations thereof.

Each interface of the mobile devices includes one or more transceivers for transmitting and receiving data over communication system . In an exemplary embodiment each mobile device can include a transceiver associated with at least one long range wireless protocol at least one short range wireless protocol and or another type of communication protocol.

Mobile devices can communicate information over system using various communication services. For example information communicated over system can be transmitted in various forms such as email internet links digital messaging graphic messaging video messaging audio messaging text messaging SMS messaging etc.

Mobile devices each include a processor and associated circuitry to execute or direct the execution of computer readable instructions to obtain information. Mobile devices retrieve and execute software from storage which can include a disk drive a flash drive memory circuitry or some other memory device and which can be local or remotely accessible. The software includes computer programs firmware or some other form of machine readable instructions and may include an operating system utilities drivers network interfaces applications or some other type of software including combinations thereof. Mobile devices can receive instructions and other input at a user interface. In an exemplary embodiment the user interface of devices can include an input device such as a peripheral or a touch sensitive display to allow a user to input instructions associated with communications over the system .

In an exemplary embodiment a client or application interface is installed on each mobile device to facilitate communications over system . For example the interface is associated with an enterprise telecommunication switch. The interface can provide access to various enterprise telecommunication switch services such as conference participation etc. where mobile devices can access the various enterprise telecommunication switch services via controller node .

Broadcasting nodes are network nodes configured to broadcast a location identification indication within predetermined broadcast areas respectively. Broadcasting nodes can be uniquely identifiable radiating devices having a short range wireless communication radius up to approximately 60 meters. For example each broadcasting node can be a BLUETOOTH IBEACON or the like where the uniquely identifiable indicator transmitted by the broadcasting node corresponds to an indication of location identification. The location identification indicator corresponds to a location in which the each broadcasting node is positioned. For example when the broadcasting node is located in a room in a building such as Room 2020 or Lexington Video Conference Room the location identification indicator is unique to the location e.g. the room in which the broadcasting node . In other words each broadcasting node within system transmits a different location identification indicator. The broadcasting nodes can be located in any location. For example they can be located within the same building within different buildings and even within different countries. In an exemplary embodiment the broadcasting nodes continuously transmit the location identification indication at a predetermined interval. Alternatively the broadcasting nodes can be configured to only transmit the location identification indication when the conference device is in use.

Broadcasting nodes can include a processor and associated circuitry to execute or direct the execution of computer readable instructions to obtain information. Broadcasting nodes can retrieve and execute software from storage which can include a disk drive a flash drive memory circuitry or some other memory device and which can be local or remotely accessible. The software includes computer programs firmware or some other form of machine readable instructions and may include an operating system utilities drivers network interfaces applications or some other type of software including combinations thereof.

Conference devices are a device configured to facilitate conference communications over system . Conference devices can support the communication of an audio visual and or multimedia presentation between two or more participants over system where at least two of the participants are located at different locations. For example the conference devices can be any device configured to allow users to transmit and or receive audio visual or multimedia information such as a communication bridge or the like. It is noted that the broadcasting nodes and the conference device can be separate devices. Alternatively each broadcasting node and respective conference device can be integrated together.

The conference devices can transmit to and or receive information from controller node over communication links respectively. Communication links can use various communication media such as air space metal optical fiber or some other signal propagation path including combinations thereof.

Each conference device includes an interface having one or more transceivers for transmitting and receiving data over communication system . In an exemplary embodiment conference device can include a transceiver associated with at least a wireless protocol at least one wired protocol and or another type of communication protocol.

Conference devices can communicate information over system using various communication services. For example information communicated over system can be transmitted in various forms such as audio digital information such as email internet links digital messaging graphic messaging video messaging audio messaging text messaging SMS messaging etc.

Conference devices can include a processor and associated circuitry to execute or direct the execution of computer readable instructions to obtain information. Conference devices can retrieve and execute software from storage which can include a disk drive a flash drive memory circuitry or some other memory device and which can be local or remotely accessible. The software includes computer programs firmware or some other form of machine readable instructions and may include an operating system utilities drivers network interfaces applications or some other type of software including combinations thereof. Conference devices can receive instructions and other input at a user interface.

Controller node can be any network node configured to manage monitor and or establish communications over system . In an exemplary embodiment the controller node stores a list of conference participants a device identifier associated with each conference participant and information associated with the location identification indication transmitted by each broadcast node within the system . In addition other identifying information about the participants of the conference can be stored at the controller node . For example details regarding the conference can be stored at the controller node including a start time an expected conference duration time a conference identifier an identification of a user responsible or the owner of the conference and any other exiting metadata about the conference.

In an exemplary embodiment the controller node can be further configured to determine a conference status associated with a user of a mobile device . For example after a conference is initiated using the conference devices and the mobile devices receive a location identification indication within the respective broadcast areas of the broadcast nodes the controller node receives a communication from at least one of the mobile devices including information associated with the location identification indication and a device identifier of the mobile device. Based on the location identification indication controller node can determine whether a conference is established using the respective conference device . Moreover based on the device identifier controller node can determine whether a participant associated with the mobile device is included within the list of identified participants.

The controller node can transmit to and or receive information from presence node over communication link . Communication link can use various communication media such as air space metal optical fiber or some other signal propagation path including combinations thereof.

Controller node includes an interface having one or more transceivers for transmitting and receiving data over communication system . In an exemplary embodiment controller node can include a transceiver associated with at least a wireless protocol at least one wired protocol and or another type of communication protocol.

Controller node can communicate information over system using various communication services. For example information communicated over system can be transmitted in various forms such as audio digital information such as email internet links digital messaging graphic messaging video messaging audio messaging text messaging SMS messaging etc.

Controller node can include a processor and associated circuitry to execute or direct the execution of computer readable instructions to obtain information. Controller node can retrieve and execute software from storage which can include a disk drive a flash drive memory circuitry or some other memory device and which can be local or remotely accessible. The software includes computer programs firmware or some other form of machine readable instructions and may include an operating system utilities drivers network interfaces applications or some other type of software including combinations thereof. Controller node can receive instructions and other input at a user interface.

Presence node is configured to accept store and communicate presence information associated with users of system . In an exemplary embodiment presence node is a presence server that stores information associated with the ability and willingness of a user of system to communicate. For example the presence information is utilized to create a personal availability record of a user of system where the personal availability record can be made available for distribution to one or more other users of system . The presence information can include at least one of a location indication of a user a communication status of a user such as available busy away etc. a unique message provided by the user etc. The presence information can be communicated to other users to represent the presence and or availability of a specific user. The presence information can be determined for each user of the system or any specifically identified user.

Presence node includes an interface having one or more transceivers for transmitting and receiving data over communication system . In an exemplary embodiment presence node can include a transceiver associated with at least a wireless protocol at least one wired protocol and or other type of communication protocol.

Presence node can include a processor and associated circuitry to execute or direct the execution of computer readable instructions to obtain information. Presence node can retrieve and execute software from storage which can include a disk drive a flash drive memory circuitry or some other memory device and which can be local or remotely accessible. The software includes computer programs firmware or some other form of machine readable instructions and may include an operating system utilities drivers network interfaces applications or some other type of software including combinations thereof.

In operation system can facilitate communication of presence information of a user associated with mobile devices . One or more conference devices can be used to establish a conference between different locations within system . Each time one of the mobile devices enters the corresponding broadcast areas the individual mobile device transmits a location identification indication to the controller node and the controller node determines whether a conference has been established. When the controller node determines that a conference has been established and that the mobile device associated with an invited participant of an established conference at the location of the mobile device the controller node initiates updating the presence indicator associated with the user of the mobile device. The controller node instructs all of the devices associated with confirmed participants of the conference to update the presence status of the corresponding user. For example controller node can transmit a message to mobile devices instructing them to update the presence status to include the user that has just entered a broadcast area within the system .

The exemplary systems and methods described herein can be performed under the control of a processing system executing computer readable codes embodied on a computer readable recording medium or communication signals transmitted through a transitory medium. The computer readable recording medium is any data storage device that can store data readable by a processing system and includes both volatile and nonvolatile media removable and non removable media and contemplates media readable by a database a computer and various other network devices.

Examples of the computer readable recording medium include but are not limited to read only memory ROM random access memory RAM erasable electrically programmable ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology holographic media or other optical disc storage magnetic storage including magnetic tape and magnetic disk and solid state storage devices. The computer readable recording medium can also be distributed over network coupled computer systems so that the computer readable code is stored and executed in a distributed fashion. The communication signals transmitted through a transitory medium may include for example modulated signals transmitted through wired or wireless transmission paths.

The foregoing detailed description of the certain exemplary embodiments has been provided for the purpose of explaining the principles of the invention and its practical application thereby enabling others skilled in the art to understand the invention for various embodiments and with various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated. This description is not necessarily intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise embodiments disclosed. The specification describes specific examples to accomplish a more general goal that may be accomplished in another way.

