---

title: Electronically binding to a lost mobile device
abstract: The first mobile device determining that the first mobile device is lost and the first mobile device, in response to determining that the first mobile device is lost, activating a secure mode on the first mobile device. The first mobile device making the first mobile device discoverable to other mobile devices. The first mobile device electronically binding to a second mobile device. The first mobile device sending information relating to the first mobile device to the second mobile device. The first mobile device receiving an indication that the first mobile device is no longer lost. The first mobile device, in response to receiving the indication that the first mobile device is no longer lost, unbinding from the second mobile device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09451465&OS=09451465&RS=09451465
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 09451465
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150923
---
The present invention relates generally to mobile devices and more specifically to a mobile device electronically binding itself to a lost mobile device.

Mobile electronic devices are an integral part of modern life. Notebooks netbooks tablet computers smart phones and other portable devices comprise more than half of all computers produced worldwide. People use them to communicate work relax and study. The memory in these devices store large amounts of personal data such as contacts photographs videos authorization information and much more. Corporate computers also contain official correspondence and documentation which may include trade secrets.

These mobile electronic devices are often targets for theft or robbery. Criminals can have various objectives to gain access to a computer s hard drive to sell the computer or rarely to use it themselves. Portable devices are easily lost due to their size and the fact that they are constantly moved around by the user.

Aspects of an embodiment of the present invention disclose a method computer program product and computing system. The method includes a first mobile device determining that the first mobile device is lost and the first mobile device in response to determining that the first mobile device is lost activating a secure mode on the first mobile device. The method further includes the first mobile device making the first mobile device discoverable to other mobile devices. The method further includes the first mobile device electronically binding to a second mobile device. The method further includes the first mobile device sending information relating to the first mobile device to the second mobile device. The method further includes the first mobile device receiving an indication that the first mobile device is no longer lost. The method further includes the first mobile device in response to receiving the indication that the first mobile device is no longer lost unbinding from the second mobile device.

Mobile devices or smart phones have become an essential part of our lives. Their use has gone beyond just making phone calls or texting. Nowadays these smart phones are all in one communications entertainment social media and networking devices. They also contain a lot of information about us much of it private. e.g. contacts likes dislikes notes ideas etc. 

The present invention involves other nearby mobile devices to solve the lost device problem. A nearby good Samaritan phone or mobile device electronically binds itself to a lost device in its vicinity. This can last until such time that the owner of the lost device or other responsible entity e.g. a mobile operator accepts responsibility or control over the lost device.

The advantages of this are that the probability of finding a lost device is increased because other mobile devices can now be actively involved. The lost device could for example send a message directly to the mobile operator s system but utilizing nearby devices provides for a speedier and more efficient recovery mechanism and an extra protection mechanism.

As will be appreciated by one skilled in the art aspects of the present invention may be embodied as a system method or computer program product. Accordingly aspects of the present invention may take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment an entirely software embodiment including firmware resident software micro code etc. or an embodiment combining software and hardware aspects that may all generally be referred to herein as a circuit module or system. Furthermore aspects of the present invention may take the form of a computer program product embodied in one or more computer readable medium s having computer readable program code instructions embodied thereon.

Any combination of computer readable media may be utilized. Computer readable media may be a computer readable signal medium or a computer readable storage medium. A computer readable storage medium may be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus or device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. More specific examples a non exhaustive list of a computer readable storage medium would include the following an electrical connection having one or more wires a portable computer diskette a hard disk a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory an optical fiber a portable compact disc read only memory CD ROM an optical storage device a magnetic storage device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. In the context of this document a computer readable storage medium may be any tangible medium that can contain or store a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device.

A computer readable signal medium may include a propagated data signal with computer readable program code embodied therein for example in baseband or as part of a carrier wave. Such a propagated signal may take any of a variety of forms including but not limited to electro magnetic optical or any suitable combination thereof. A computer readable signal medium may be any computer readable medium that is not a computer readable storage medium and that can communicate propagate or transport a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device.

Program code embodied on a computer readable medium may be transmitted using any appropriate medium including but not limited to wireless wireline optical fiber cable RF etc. or any suitable combination of the foregoing.

Computer program code for carrying out operations for aspects of the present invention may be written in any combination of one or more programming languages including an object oriented programming language such as Java Smalltalk C or the like and conventional procedural programming languages such as the C programming language or similar programming languages. The program code may execute entirely on a user s computer partly on the user s computer as a stand alone software package partly on the user s computer and partly on a remote computer or entirely on the remote computer or server. In the latter scenario the remote computer may be connected to the user s computer through any type of network including a local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN or the connection may be made to an external computer for example through the Internet using an Internet Service Provider .

Aspects of the present invention are described below with reference to flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams of methods apparatus systems and computer program products according to embodiments of the invention. It will be understood that each block of the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams and combinations of blocks in the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams can be implemented by computer program instructions. These computer program instructions may be provided to a processor of a general purpose computer special purpose computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a machine such that the instructions which execute via the processor of the computer or other programmable data processing apparatus create means for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable medium that can direct a computer other programmable data processing apparatus or other devices to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer readable medium produce an article of manufacture including instructions which implement the function act specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer other programmable data processing apparatus or other devices to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer other programmable apparatus or other devices to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide processes for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

It is understood that although this disclosure includes a detailed description on cloud computing implementation of the teachings recited herein are not limited to a cloud computing environment. Rather embodiments of the present invention are capable of being implemented in conjunction with any other type of computing environment now known or later developed. A detailed description of cloud computing is given in this section to provide a better understanding of the underlying teachings discussed herein.

In the depicted embodiment computing environment includes lost device guardian device and mobile operator server interconnected over network . Network may be a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN such as the Internet the public switched telephone network PSTN a mobile data network e.g. wireless internet provided by a third or fourth generation of mobile phone mobile communication a private branch exchange PBX any combination thereof or any combination of connections and protocols that will support communications between lost device guardian device and mobile operator server in accordance with embodiments of the invention. Network may include wired wireless or fiber optic connections. Computing environment may include additional computing devices servers or other devices not shown.

Lost device is a smart phone. In other embodiments lost device may be a laptop computer tablet computer or personal digital assistant PDA . In general lost device may be any mobile electronic device or mobile computing system capable of sending and receiving data and communicating with guardian device and mobile operator server over network . Lost device contains contacts Application Programming Interface API A location Application Programming Interface API A and device recovery program A.

Guardian device is a smart phone. In other embodiments guardian device may be a laptop computer tablet computer or personal digital assistant PDA . In general guardian device may be any mobile electronic device or mobile computing system capable of sending and receiving data and communicating with lost device and mobile operator server over network . Guardian device contains contacts Application Programming Interface API B location Application Programming Interface API B and device recovery program B.

Lost device and guardian device are at location . Location is an area where lost device and guardian device may communicate over personal area network . Personal area network PAN may be a computer network with a small geographic scope. Computer networks with a small geographic scope range from Near Field Communication NFC to Local Area Networks LANs . A computer network with a small geographic scope typically does not have a connection to the Internet or other remote networks. Personal area network PAN can be used for communication among mobile devices themselves intrapersonal communication or for connecting to a higher level network e.g. the Internet . A wireless personal area network WPAN is a PAN carried over wireless network technologies such as Bluetooth or peer to peer communications over a wireless LAN Bluetooth is a registered trademark of Bluetooth SIG Inc. . In embodiments of the present invention lost device and guardian device each have the necessary hardware to allow for communication over whatever PAN is used for communication between them e.g. a Bluetooth radio .

Mobile operator server is a server computer. In other embodiments mobile operator server may be a management server a web server or any other electronic device capable of receiving and sending data. In another embodiment mobile operator server may represent a server computing system utilizing multiple computers as a server system such as in a cloud computing environment. Mobile operator server contains device recovery server program .

Lost device guardian device and mobile operator server may each include components as depicted in further detail with respect to .

Contacts API s A and B are application programming interfaces that programs can call to retrieve contacts stored on lost device and guardian device respectively. In one embodiment contacts are stored in a repository on lost device and guardian device . The repository contains stored contacts and includes information associated with each contact. The information associated with each contact may include but is not limited to the name of a contact telephone number of the contact the email address of the contact and any other information about the contact. In one embodiment the repository is a repository that may be accessed through contacts API s A and B. In other embodiments the repository may be a database such as an Oracle database or an IBM DB2 database.

Location API s A and B are application programming interfaces that programs can call to receive the location of lost device and guardian device respectively. Location API s are application programming interfaces that programs can call to receive the geographic location of a device. The location API receives the geographic location of a device from a Global Positioning System GPS receiver not shown . A GPS receiver is integrated or connected to lost device and or guardian device . A GPS receiver can determine its geographic location and present that geographic location as longitude and latitude coordinates.

In another embodiment the geographic location of lost device and or guardian device may be determined by a mobile operator and sent to lost device and or guardian device to be made available by accessing location API s e.g. location API s A or B . A mobile operator may be a cellular telephone carrier if lost device and or guardian device is a cellular telephone e.g. smart phone . Cellular networks can determine the geographic location of a cellular telephone by using the radio resource location services protocol. Radio resource location services protocol supports the positioning method Enhanced Observed Time Difference E OTD . E OTD is based on measurements inside the cellular telephone where the phone measures the observed time difference of arrival of bursts sent by nearby pairs of base transceiver stations.

Device recovery programs A and B operate generally to electronically bind guardian devices and lost devices that are near each other e.g. able to communicate over a personal area network . Device recovery programs A and B are different instances of the same application on different devices. Device recovery programs A and B function in different modes depending on the device they are operating on. For example device recovery program A is operating on lost device therefore device recovery program A will function in a lost device mode as discussed in further detail with respect to . Device recovery program B is operating on guardian device therefore device recovery program B will function in a guardian device mode as discussed in further detail with respect to .

Device recovery server program operates generally to provide support functions for device recovery programs A and B. A support function may include receiving forwarding and managing telephone calls or electronic messages e.g. text messages email etc. between lost device guardian device and other devices not shown . Another support function may include authentication of devices on a mobile operator s network. In other embodiments the functionality of device recovery programs A and B may be done by device recovery server program .

An example of a generic scenario is as follows. Jim is cycling and his bike breaks down. Jim accepts a lift from a stranger who drops him in town. When Jim looks for his smart phone e.g. lost device he realizes he left it in the stranger s car. Jim has no way of finding his smart phone or contacting the stranger. Jim may have not activated his find my iPhone application or similar application on another device or the stranger s car may be in an area with no wireless service. Meanwhile Jim s smart phone is under a seat in the stranger s car. The stranger s smart phone e.g. guardian device is enabled with an instance of a device recovery program e.g. device recovery program B . The stranger s smart phone detects Jim s smart phone in its vicinity and after finding Jim s smart phone to be lost activated on Jim s smart phone after a configurable time or when it receives an activate lost phone code from a text from Jim electronically binds itself to Jim s smart phone. The stranger s smart phone retrieves Jim s email address and other details from Jim s smart phone and sends an email with a phone number of the stranger s smart phone and possibly other details e.g. location . Jim receives the email rings the stranger and the phone is returned. The stranger s smart phone unbinds from Jim s smart phone.

Initially a user of lost device activates and configures device recovery program A. The user may configure how device recovery program A is to determine that lost device is lost. The many embodiments of how device recovery program A may determine lost device is lost will be discussed in reference to decision below. In another embodiment the user may also configure an optional secure mode for lost device that may be entered in to when device recovery program A determines that lost device is lost. The optional secure mode will be discussed in reference to step below. Many other configurable settings will be discussed throughout the discussion of and . After the user configures the settings of device recovery program A as desired device recovery program A will begin operation.

In decision device recovery program A determines whether lost device is lost. In one embodiment device recovery program A monitors the usage of lost device to determine if there has not been any outgoing network activity or user initiated activity such as outgoing text messages telephone calls or outgoing internet traffic within a particular time frame. Network activity can be monitored by accessing an API not shown that can provide network activity statistics of lost phone . For example the time frame may be one hour one day one week or any other time period. The time frame may begin at the activation of device recovery program A. The time frame and its beginning may be configurable by the user of lost device . If there has not been any outgoing network activity or user initiated activity within the particular time frame device recovery program A determines that lost device is lost.

In another embodiment device recovery program A monitors the geographic location of lost device to determine if lost device is in an unusual geographic location. Device recovery program A calls location API A of lost device for the geographic location of lost device . Location API A receives the geographic location of lost device from a GPS receiver integrated with lost device . A GPS receiver can determine its geographic location and present that location as longitude and latitude coordinates. Device recovery program A compares the geographic location of lost phone to a plurality of geographic locations previously stored on lost device . For example the plurality of geographic locations previously stored on lost device may have been entered manually by the user of lost device at setup or automatically by software on lost device that constantly monitored the geographic location of lost device during normal operation. If the geographic location of lost device retrieved by device recovery program A does not match any of the plurality of geographic locations previously stored on lost device device recovery program A determines that lost device is lost.

In yet another embodiment device recovery program A monitors for the receipt of a text message from the user of lost device operating another device or a text message from another known source. The text message must include a code to indicate to device recovery program A that lost device is now lost. In one embodiment the code may be a string of characters entered in the body of the text message received. The code may be preconfigured by the user of lost device at setup. If a text message received contains the code to indicate that lost device is now lost device recovery program A determines that lost device is lost.

In other circumstances when a device is lost that device might not have the function to say I m lost or might not yet consider itself lost. The user of that device might engage one or more good Samaritan devices to be on the lookout for the lost device and report the lost device if when it is encountered. Equally before a device is lost the user of that device might engage some good Samaritan devices to keep a look out for the device that may be more likely to be lost in the future. At some later time the user might ask the good Samaritans if where they last encountered the now lost device. Additionally the good Samaritans rather than each reporting their individual experience of the lost device in this regard might confer and return a consolidated answer to the enquiring user. Further the relationship of the good Samaritans to the lost or to be lost device might be authenticated with the mobile operator and the good Samaritan devices might co operate with the mobile operator in this regard such that when the user inquires they ask the mobile operator before reporting the consolidated answer to the user i.e. it may be that the mobile operator has better info in some cases .

If device recovery program A determines that lost device is lost decision yes branch device recovery program A proceeds to step . If device recovery program A determines that lost device is not lost decision no branch device recovery program A ends. In another embodiment if device recovery program A determines that lost device is not lost decision no branch device recovery program A returns to decision .

In step device recovery program A changes the mode of lost device to a secure mode. In one embodiment device recovery program A sends an indication to the operating system of lost phone to activate its security features. The security features may include screen locking which requires a personal identification number PIN or password to unlock blocking access to stored data on lost phone and or restricting connectivity Bluetooth Universal Serial Bus network . The restrictions relating to stored data and connectivity would not hinder function of device recovery program A.

In step device recovery program A makes lost device discoverable to guardian device . In one embodiment device recovery program A activates the Bluetooth capabilities of lost device . For example device recovery program A sends an indication using a Bluetooth API of lost device to activate the Bluetooth capabilities of lost device and to put lost device in to discoverable mode. In other embodiments device recovery program A causes lost device to join any available personal area network such as personal area network . For example if personal area network is a WPAN e.g. wireless LAN device recovery program A sends an indication using a wireless network API of lost device to activate a wireless network antenna of lost device and to join the available wireless network.

In step device recovery program A receives a request for lost device to electronically bind with guardian device over PAN . In one embodiment device recovery program A receives a request to pair lost device with guardian device from device recovery program B of guardian device over PAN . In this embodiment guardian device must also be Bluetooth enabled and in discoverable mode. In another embodiment if lost device and guardian device are both within range to join the same WPAN e.g. wireless LAN device recovery program A receives a request to create a peer to peer connection from device recovery program B of guardian device .

In step device recovery program A electronically binds lost device with guardian device over PAN . In one embodiment device recovery program A pairs lost device with guardian device such that device recovery programs A and B can communicate using Bluetooth protocols. In this embodiment pairing may occur using a known method of pairing that does not require user interaction with lost device such as Secure Simple Pairing SSP . Other methods of pairing may utilize the connections between lost device and mobile operator server and guardian device and mobile operator server to exchange authentication tokens or keys as needed.

In another embodiment if lost device and guardian device are both within range to join the same WPAN e.g. wireless LAN device recovery program A accepts the request to create a peer to peer connection from device recovery program B of guardian device such that device recovery programs A and B can communicate. In other embodiments lost device and guardian device may be electronically bound such that device recovery programs A and B can communicate utilizing any known protocols or connections over a WPAN.

In step device recovery program A sends information to guardian device . In one embodiment device recovery program A receives a request from device recovery program B over PAN for information relating to lost device . In response to receiving the request from device recovery program B device recovery program A sends the information relating to lost device to device recovery program B of PAN . In order for device recovery program A to respond to the request from device recovery program B device recovery program A can call various APIs on lost device to obtain the information relating to lost device . For example device recovery program A can call contacts API A to retrieve the name and contact information of the user of lost device including other contact numbers or email addresses. Device recovery program A can call location API A to determine where lost device was lost during operation of step described above.

In another embodiment device recovery program A receives a request from device recovery server program over network for information relating to lost device . The mobile operator may use information previously configured by the user of lost device while accessing device recovery server program on the mobile operator s system instead of retrieving new information from lost phone itself.

For example information relating to lost device may include but is not limited to the name and contact information of the user of lost device including other contact numbers or email addresses how long lost device has been lost where lost device was lost value of any reward offered for recovery of lost device this could be preset during the configuration of device recovery program A .

In step device recovery program A receives an indication to unbind lost device from guardian device . In one embodiment after data is exchanged between device recovery programs A and B and lost device is returned to its user device recovery program A receives an indication from device recovery program B over PAN indicating that lost device is no longer lost. In another embodiment device recovery program A must also receive an indication from the user that lost device is no longer lost. For example if the secure mode entered in to in step includes screen locking the entry of the required personal identification number or password to unlock the screen would also disable the lost device status. In other embodiments device recovery program A may only have to receive an indication from the user that lost device is no longer lost.

In step after receiving the indication to unbind lost device from guardian device device recovery program A unbinds lost device from guardian device . In one embodiment if lost device and guardian device are paired such that device recovery programs A and B can communicate using Bluetooth protocols device recovery program A removes guardian device as a paired device. In another embodiment if lost device and guardian device are both within range to join the same WPAN e.g. wireless LAN such that device recovery programs A and B can communicate device recovery program A may send an indication using a wireless network API of lost device to deactivate the wireless network antenna of lost device or to disconnect from the available wireless network.

Initially a user of guardian device activates and configures device recovery program B. The user may configure how device recovery program B is to operate when communicating with lost device or any other device that is lost. After the user configures the settings of device recovery program B as desired device recovery program B will begin operation.

In step device recovery program B scans for devices nearby guardian device . In one embodiment device recovery program B makes guardian device discoverable to lost device . In one embodiment device recovery program B activates the Bluetooth capabilities of guardian device . For example device recovery program B sends an indication using a Bluetooth API of guardian device to activate the Bluetooth capabilities of guardian device and to put guardian device in to discoverable mode. Bluetooth devices that are set on discoverable mode have the ability to search for and locate each other so long as they remain within range. In other embodiments device recovery program B causes guardian device to join any available personal area network such as personal area network . For example if personal area network is a WPAN e.g. wireless LAN device recovery program B sends an indication using a wireless network API of guardian device to activate a wireless network antenna of guardian device and to join the available wireless network. In other embodiments device recovery program A scans for devices nearby lost device .

In decision device recovery program B determines if any devices nearby guardian device have been detected. In one embodiment device recovery program B sends an indication to the Bluetooth API of guardian device to perform an inquiry to find other Bluetooth enabled devices to connect to. Any device in discoverable mode can be configured to respond to such inquiries. In another embodiment once guardian device joins the available wireless network device recovery program B looks for other devices joined to the same network.

If device recovery program B determines that no devices nearby guardian device have been detected decision no branch device recovery program B returns to step . If device recovery program B determines that one or more devices nearby guardian device have been detected decision yes branch device recovery program B proceeds to decision .

In decision device recovery program B determines if any of the one or more detected devices nearby guardian device are lost. In one embodiment device recovery program B sends an inquiry to device recovery program A on lost device over PAN to determine whether lost device is lost. If device recovery program A on lost device has determined that lost device is lost as described in reference to decision above device recovery program A will respond to the inquiry from device recovery program B and the response will indicate that lost device is lost.

In another embodiment if lost device is lost but does not have the function to say I m lost or might not yet consider itself lost the user of lost device may engage one or more guardian devices to be on the look out for lost device . For example the user of lost device may use another computing device to send an indication to be on the look out for lost device to device recovery server program . The mobile operator may then send the indication over network to all other devices with an instance of device recovery program B running on them. If device recovery program B determines that lost device has been detected then the device recovery program B will determine that lost device is lost based on the received indication from device recovery server program .

In some embodiments decision may take place after step depending on the protocol used to electronically bind lost device and guardian device . For example if the devices will be bound by using Bluetooth protocols the inquiry of whether lost device is lost will have to take place after the devices are connected by the Bluetooth protocol.

If device recovery program B determines that determines that none of the one or more detected devices nearby guardian device are lost decision no branch device recovery program B returns to step . If device recovery program B determines that at least one of the one or more detected devices nearby guardian device are lost decision yes branch device recovery program B proceeds to step .

In step device recovery program B electronically binds guardian device to the one detected device nearby guardian device that is lost e.g. lost device . Device recovery program B sends a request for lost device to electronically bind with guardian device over PAN . In one embodiment device recovery program B sends a request to pair lost device with guardian device to device recovery program A of lost device over PAN . In this embodiment lost device must also be Bluetooth enabled and in discoverable mode. In another embodiment if lost device and guardian device are both within range to join the same WPAN e.g. wireless LAN device recovery program B sends a request to create a peer to peer connection to device recovery program A of lost device . Different embodiments regarding electronically binding lost device with guardian device over PAN are discussed in reference to step above.

In step device recovery program B obtains information relating to lost device e.g. the one detected device nearby guardian device that is lost . In one embodiment device recovery program B sends a request to device recovery program A over PAN to retrieve information relating to lost device . In another embodiment device recovery program B sends a request to device recovery server program over network to retrieve information relating to lost device . The mobile operator may use information previously configured by the user of lost device while accessing device recovery server program on the mobile operator s system to respond to the request and or the mobile operator may retrieve new information from lost phone itself.

For example information relating to lost device may include but is not limited to the name and contact information of the user of lost device including other contact numbers or email addresses how long lost device has been lost where lost device was lost value of any reward offered for recovery of lost device this could be preset during the configuration of device recovery program A . In order for device recovery program A to respond to the request from device recovery program B device recovery program A can call various APIs on lost device to obtain the information relating to lost device . For example device recovery program A can call contacts API A to retrieve the name and contact information of the user of lost device including other contact numbers or email addresses. Device recovery program A can call location API A to determine where lost device was lost during operation of step described above.

In step device recovery program B sends the information relating to the one detected device nearby guardian device that is lost e.g. lost device to a designated party. In one embodiment device recovery program B queries device recovery program A for the designated party. In other embodiments the designated party is retrieved in step . For example the designated party may be the user of lost device at the users other contact numbers or email addresses. In other examples the designated party may be another specified friend of the user the mobile operator the police or a third party security system.

In yet another example a designated party may not have been set by the user during configuration of device recovery program A. In such a case device recovery program A may send all or a subset of contacts to device recovery program B. Device recovery program B upon receipt of all the contacts or a subset of contacts will compare the contact list on guardian device accessed through contacts API B with the received contacts for matches. If device recovery program B finds any matches it can prioritize who to contact based on this match.

In one embodiment if the designated party can be reached electronically e.g. by text message or email device recovery program B sends the information relating to the one detected device nearby guardian device that is lost e.g. lost device directly to the designated party. In another embodiment if the designated party can not be reached electronically e.g. by text message or email device recovery program B alerts the user of guardian device so that the user may contact the designated party.

In other embodiments if lost device is not lost but the user of lost device has engaged multiple guardian devices to be on the look out for lost device the multiple guardian devices may coordinate a response to a designated party. In one example the first guardian device to bind to lost device will receive the information relating to lost device from each subsequent guardian device to bind to lost device and obtain information relating to lost device . The information relating to lost device obtained from subsequent guardian devices may included more up to date location information that may aid in finding lost device . In another example each guardian device to bind to lost device may send the information relating to lost device to device recovery server program over network .

In step device recovery program B receives an indication to unbind guardian device from lost device . In one embodiment after lost device is returned to its user device recovery program B receives an indication from the user of guardian device indicating that lost device is no longer lost. The user may use a user interface to device recovery program B to indicate that lost device is no longer lost. In another embodiment device recovery program B must also receive an indication from device recovery program A indicating that lost device is no longer lost. Device recovery program A may determine that lost device is no longer lost as describe in reference to step above. In other embodiments device recovery program B may only have to receive an indication from the user of guardian device that lost device is no longer lost.

In step after receiving the indication to unbind guardian device from lost device device recovery program B unbinds guardian device from lost device . In one embodiment if lost device and guardian device are paired such that device recovery programs A and B can communicate using Bluetooth protocols device recovery program B removes lost device as a paired device. In another embodiment if lost device and guardian device are both within range to join the same WPAN e.g. wireless LAN such that device recovery programs A and B can communicate device recovery program B may send an indication using a wireless network API of guardian device to deactivate the wireless network antenna of guardian device or to disconnect from the available wireless network. After device recovery program B completes step it returns to step .

Lost device guardian device and mobile operator server each include communications fabric which provides communications between computer processor s memory persistent storage communications unit and input output I O interface s . Communications fabric can be implemented with any architecture designed for passing data and or control information between processors such as microprocessors communications and network processors etc. system memory peripheral devices and any other hardware components within a system. For example communications fabric can be implemented with one or more buses.

Memory and persistent storage are computer readable storage media. In one embodiment memory includes random access memory RAM and cache memory . In general memory can include any suitable volatile or non volatile computer readable storage media.

Contacts API A location API A and device recovery program A are stored in persistent storage of lost device for execution and or access by one or more of the respective computer processors of lost device via one or more memories of memory of lost device . Contacts API B location API B and device recovery program B are stored in persistent storage of guardian device for execution and or access by one or more of the respective computer processors of guardian device via one or more memories of memory of guardian device . Device recovery server program is stored in persistent storage of mobile operator server for execution by one or more of the respective computer processors of mobile operator server via one or more memories of memory of mobile operator server . In this embodiment persistent storage includes a magnetic hard disk drive. Alternatively or in addition to a magnetic hard disk drive persistent storage can include a solid state hard drive a semiconductor storage device read only memory ROM erasable programmable read only memory EPROM flash memory or any other computer readable storage media that is capable of storing program instructions or digital information.

The media used by persistent storage may also be removable. For example a removable hard drive may be used for persistent storage . Other examples include optical and magnetic disks thumb drives and smart cards that are inserted into a drive for transfer onto another computer readable storage medium that is also part of persistent storage .

Communications unit in these examples provides for communications with other servers data processing systems or devices. In these examples communications unit includes one or more network interface cards. Communications unit may provide communications through the use of either or both physical and wireless communications links. Contacts API A location API A and device recovery program A may be downloaded to persistent storage of lost device through communications unit of lost device . Contacts API B location API B and device recovery program B may be downloaded to persistent storage of guardian device through communications unit of guardian device . Device recovery server program may be downloaded to persistent storage of mobile operator server through communications unit of mobile operator server .

I O interface s allows for input and output of data with other devices that may be connected to computing system . For example I O interface may provide a connection to external devices such as a keyboard keypad a touch screen and or some other suitable input device. External devices can also include portable computer readable storage media such as for example thumb drives portable optical or magnetic disks and memory cards. Software and data used to practice embodiments of the present invention e.g. contacts API A location API A and device recovery program A can be stored on such portable computer readable storage media and can be loaded onto persistent storage of lost device via I O interface s of lost device . Software and data used to practice embodiments of the present invention e.g. contacts API B location API B and device recovery program B can be stored on such portable computer readable storage media and can be loaded onto persistent storage of guardian device via I O interface s of guardian device . Software and data used to practice embodiments of the present invention e.g. device recovery server program can be stored on such portable computer readable storage media and can be loaded onto persistent storage of mobile operator server via I O interface s of mobile operator server . I O interface s also connect to a display .

Display provides a mechanism to display data to a user and may be for example a computer monitor or a touch screen.

The programs described herein are identified based upon the application for which they are implemented in a specific embodiment of the invention. However it should be appreciated that any particular program nomenclature herein is used merely for convenience and thus the invention should not be limited to use solely in any specific application identified and or implied by such nomenclature.

The flowchart and block diagrams in the Figures illustrate the architecture functionality and operation of possible implementations of systems methods and computer program products according to various embodiments of the present invention. In this regard each block in the flowchart or block diagrams may represent a module segment or portion of code which comprises one or more executable instructions for implementing the specified logical function s . It should also be noted that in some alternative implementations the functions noted in the block may occur out of the order noted in the Figures. For example two blocks shown in succession may in fact be executed substantially concurrently or the blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order depending upon the functionality involved. It will also be noted that each block of the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration and combinations of blocks in the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration can be implemented by special purpose hardware based systems that perform the specified functions or acts or combinations of special purpose hardware and computer instructions.

