---

title: Integrating location-based social media data with enterprise business intelligence applications
abstract: Embodiments of an information management system and related methods are disclosed. In some embodiments, the system collects social media contents and metadata from social media networks or other sources. The system then enhances the received social media data with location and other information. Furthermore, the system receives business data and information regarding business goals from a business intelligence platform owned or operated by a business entity. To satisfy the business goals, the system sorts, filters, or otherwise processes the enhanced social media data to extract business intelligence that reflect the sentiment and behavior patterns of social media users in connection to the operations, products, or services of the business entity.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09269112&OS=09269112&RS=09269112
owner: WeLink, Inc.
number: 09269112
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150312
---
The present application is related to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 656 252 filed Mar. 12 2015 and titled COLLECTING AND GENERATING GEO TAGGED SOCIAL MEDIA DATA THROUGH A NETWORK ROUTER INTERFACE which is incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The present application is related to utilizing social media data for enterprise business and in particular to monitoring and analyzing social media data to generate business intelligence.

Communication is shifting from traditional platforms such as phone and paper to digital media. Among the notable digital media are email blogs and social media networks. Social media networks are operated by companies including Twitter Instagram Facebook Google Plus YouTube Flickr Picasa Foursquare Nextdoor Pinterest Yelp 500px Photobucket Panaromio Meetup Eventbrite Dailymotion Viddy Soundcloud YikYak Snapchat Whisper Secret TripAdvisor Expedia Travelocity etc. Social media data generally contain public descriptions of the views or activities of social media users. Therefore analysis of social media data can uncover sentiment or behavior patterns and other useful information regarding social media users.

Businesses depend on their customers and greater knowledge about their clientele helps businesses address consumer needs more thoroughly. Therefore information regarding current and prospective customers that can be derived from social media data can be helpful to businesses. Today business entities large and small often employ business intelligence tools to analyze business data including customer related data obtained from traditional data sources such as customer profiles satisfaction surveys etc. The business intelligence tools include business intelligence dashboards enterprise resource planning systems and customer relationship managers. Businesses can benefit from strengthened business intelligence processes that can be achieved by integrating location based social media data with other business data and performing broader and more comprehensive customer oriented analysis.

The present application discloses an information management system and related methods which enhance social media data with location information and extract business intelligence from the enhanced social media data. The system receives business data and information regarding business goals from a business intelligence platform owned or operated by a business entity and sorts filters or otherwise analyzes the enhanced social media data to satisfy the business goals. Specifically the business intelligence extracted from the enhanced social media data can reflect customer opinions related to the business or general customer sentiment and behavior patterns and thus can help improve the structure and operation of the business entity or the products and services offered by the business entity. The system can communicate with the business intelligence platform through an application programming interface API a Web services interface or other mechanisms.

The following is a detailed description of exemplary embodiments to illustrate the principles of the invention. The embodiments are provided to illustrate aspects of the invention but the invention is not limited to any embodiment. The scope of the invention encompasses numerous alternatives modifications and the equivalent.

Numerous specific details are set forth in the following description in order to provide a thorough understanding of the invention. However the invention may be practiced without some or all of these specific details. For the purpose of clarity technical material that is known in the technical fields related to the invention has not been described in detail so that the invention is not unnecessarily obscured.

In some embodiments the information management system communicates with a business intelligence platform owned or operated by a business entity to generate business intelligence from location based social media data for the business entity. The business intelligence platform generally possesses strong computation power and storage capabilities for processing a large volume of various types of business data regarding products and services customers stores and operations etc. The business intelligence platform can be implemented by a server farm a cloud computing platform or similar computing facilities. The information management system can analyze location based social media data with respect to given business data according to the business goals and policies of the business entity. The analysis result can include relevant summaries and statistics that provide insight into the business functions of the business entity.

In some embodiments the information management system makes the analysis result available to the business intelligence platform in one or more ways such as through integration into the backend or the frontend of the business intelligence platform . For example the business intelligence platform can include a backend reporting component and a frontend dashboard. The reporting component can invoke the information management system and send the result produced by the information management system to the dashboard for display. Alternatively the dashboard can include an option for a user to select the information management system from a number of business intelligence tools or social media monitoring tools for use based on a subscription or other licensing methods. Various users related to the business entity can then obtain the analysis result and other business intelligence information by accessing the business intelligence platform through their user devices . These users can include people in management marketing sales or other relevant departments and their devices can include mobile phones tablets laptop computers desktop computers or wearable devices.

In some embodiments the social media source interface manages interactions with social media sources including social media networks social media plugins and social media data collectors. The social media source interface obtains social media contents and metadata from these social media sources through a published API or any other specified access mechanism. For example Facebook makes data available through an API while Firehose delivers data in a supported format such as JSON. The social media data can also obtained from crawling social media websites. The social media data can be received on a daily basis upon a specific request from a computing device or according to any other schedule.

Social media data collectors often compute or derive additional metadata to add values to the original social media contents. For example together with a tweet Firehose may make available language information indicating in which language the message was written and Klout information indicating the author s influence ranking. The social media source interface can also access additional engines that analyze social media contents to obtain additional social media metadata. Such engines include sentiment analysis engines which often rely on the use of natural language processing computational linguistics and similar techniques to identify and extract subjective information in source materials. Furthermore the social media source interface can obtain additional social media metadata in response to receiving queries from a business intelligence platform. For example given relevant business information customer loyalty data can be acquired such as the net promoter score NPS .

In some embodiments the data enhancement module enriches the social media contents and metadata received from the social media sources. One factor that is important for analyzing social activities is user location. However not every piece of social media data includes location information. For example location services are turned off by default with Twitter so a user needs to turn on the location services to attach a location to a tweet. Therefore one way the data enhancement module can enrich the received social media data is to uncover as much location information as possible.

As discussed in the related application U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 656 252 the information management system can collect information from network routers and use the information to enrich social media data received from various social media sources. In some embodiments the data enhancement module first relies on a data aggregator to collect router data from network routers regarding a network router devices connected to the network router or users using the connected devices. Specifically the router data can include the location of the network router and for a connected device the MAC address and locations of visited websites together with the times of visits. The data enhancement module then joins the network router data to the social media data mainly based on timestamps.

In some embodiments the data enhancement module enhances the social media data in various ways based on the joined data. In one approach when a first and a second devices are connected to the same network router even if the social media data transmitted by the first device does not include location information if the network router is associated with location information or if the social media data transmitted by the second device includes location information the data enhancement module can assign the same location information to the social media data transmitted by the first device. The reason for this is that both devices are connected to the same network router and thus are typically located in the proximity of the router. In addition based on the MAC address of the first device even if the first device later is connected to a different network router or communicates with a different social media network the data enhancement module can associate the published social media data with the same first device and its user to obtain more information about the user. The information generated by a network router can include additional detail such as device types timestamps of online activities performed outside the social media etc. which can also be used to enrich the received social media data and make additional inferences regarding the social media users.

In some embodiments the client interface manages communications with the business intelligence platform owned or operated by a business entity. The client interface communicates with the business intelligence platform differently depending on the mode of communication. The information management can have an API and it can communicate with the business intelligence platform through that API in one mode of communication. Under the API the client interface receives queries for location based social media data from the business intelligence platform based on one or more attributes of the social media data managed by the system and returns the query results containing one or more attributes. The business intelligence platform can present the query results graphically further analyze the query results together with existing business data collect additional business data based on the query results and so on. The information management can also have a web based interface to be used for another mode of communication. For example the client interface receives queries for social media data from a Web browser and returns query results to form an iFrame in a Web page generated by the business intelligence platform. In yet another mode of communication the information management system is packaged as a Web plugin. For example the client interface receives queries for social media data from a Web browser and returns query results to be embedded in a Web page generated by the business intelligence platform.

As the location based social media data can serve as a source of people s opinions regarding a business the business intelligence platform can make a variety of business data available to the client interface that can be correlated with the available social media data to improve different aspects of the business. The business data can be related to the business structure or operation such as the addresses of retail and manufacturing locations the hours of operation of each location information regarding the personnel working at each location etc. The business data can be related to the products or services offered by the business entity such as the prices the inventories at the manufacturing sites and the retail stores the discounts and promotions available in the retail stores and online the budget and sales figures etc. The business data received from the business intelligence platform and the location based social media data managed by the information management system are then combined and analyzed for given business objectives as discussed below. In general business objectives include understanding customer reactions to certain aspects of a business studying customer shopping and spending preferences analyzing the interplay between customer influences and marketing strategies and so on. The client interface then sends the analysis result to the business intelligence platform in accordance with the mode of communication. The business intelligence platform can send the relevant business data and information regarding the business goals to the client interface on a regular basis when changes occur in any aspect of the business and so on. On the other hand the client interface can send the analysis result to the business intelligence platform in response to receiving new business data from the business intelligence platform as new location based social media data relevant to the business becomes available on a regular basis and according to other schedules.

In some embodiments the data analysis module processes the collected and enhanced social media data with respect to any business data received from the business intelligence platform. The processing generally includes correlating the two types of data followed by sorting or filtering. For example the business data may be as simple as the addresses of a retail location or the name of a product. The data analysis module can then generate various summary information and business insight corresponding to the specified retail location or product depending on the business objectives. For a specific location the data analysis module can focus on the social media data associated with the network routers located at or near that location geotags specifying that location in the social media metadata keywords specifying or describing that location in the social media contents and so on. For a specific product the data analysis module can focus on keywords images or videos specifying or describing the product various forms of recognition or criticism of the product or other references to the product in the social media data. In addition the data analysis module can take into consideration attributes and activities of the social media users that may not be directly related to the business. For example a user s Klout as determined by the number of followers the number of comments received on the user s posts or other measures a user s general shopping preferences by price category location etc. can be among the important factors to consider as the business entity makes business decisions.

In the same example illustrated in the graph also includes relevant business data provided by the business intelligence platform that can be compared with the social media data to produce further business insight. Such business data can be the number of people visiting the store the number of repeat visitors of the store the number of customers using the wireless network of the store the amount of sales made in the store or other statistics that can be compiled by the store. As one example when the number of Instagram posts related to a store is large and when the number of customers visiting the store is also large it can mean that the product on display in the store is attracting a great deal of attention. As another example when the number of customers using the wireless network of the store is large and yet the number of social media posts related to the store is small it can mean that at least some customers are tech savvy or stay in the store to use the wireless communication but do not necessarily have much interest in the products in the store. As yet another example when the NPS is low but the number of repeat customers is high it can mean that the customers are not main users of social media or that the repeat visitors are not necessarily repeat customers of the store.

While the examples that have been presented focus on a particular store the information management system can perform similar analysis for each of the other stores operated by the business entity compare or aggregate the results obtained for multiple locations perform similar analysis for the entire business and so on. For example the business can aggregate the results for all the stores on the west coast of the U.S. similarly aggregate the results for all the stores on the east coast compare the aggregated data and study the results or other relevant data to explain the comparison outcome. The business entity can also eliminate from consideration for the aggregation computation any store with annual revenue below a certain threshold. In general the scope of each analysis is in no way limited and is only set by a user.

In conjunction in step the information management system communicates with a business intelligence platform owned or operated by a business entity in one of the predetermined modes. For example the communication can rely on an API of the information management system in one mode or through a web based interface in another mode. The system initially receives relevant business data and business intelligence queries from the business intelligence platform. For example the system may receive from a Web browser business data that indicates the location of a retail store and a query for the distribution of different types of sentiment regarding the store as well as the products carried by the store. The query can further request the Klout indicator of every social media user who has expressed a negative sentiment in his or her social media communications. In step in response the system examines and dissects the enhanced social media data by joining sorting filtering mining or other similar techniques to determine the query result. In step the system returns the query result to the business intelligence platform in a manner that depends on the predetermined mode. For example the system can send properly formatted query result back to the Web browser to populate an iFrame in a Webpage generated by the business entity.

The processor s is are the central processing unit CPU of the computer and thus control the overall operation of the computer . In certain embodiments the processor s accomplish this by executing software or firmware stored in memory . The processor s may be or may include one or more programmable general purpose or special purpose microprocessors digital signal processors DSPs programmable controllers application specific integrated circuits ASICs programmable logic devices PLDs field programmable gate arrays FPGAs trusted platform modules TPMs or a combination of such or similar devices.

The memory is or includes the main memory of the computer . The memory represents any form of random access memory RAM read only memory ROM flash memory or the like or a combination of such devices. In use the memory may contain code containing instructions according to the techniques disclosed herein.

Also connected to the processor s through the interconnect are a network adapter and a mass storage device . The network adapter provides the computer with the ability to communicate with remote devices over a network and may be for example an Ethernet adapter. The network adapter may also provide the computer with the ability to communicate with other computers.

The code stored in memory may be implemented as software and or firmware to program the processor s to carry out actions described above. In certain embodiments such software or firmware may be initially provided to the computer by downloading it from a remote system through the computer e.g. via network adapter .

The techniques introduced herein can be implemented by for example programmable circuitry e.g. one or more microprocessors programmed with software and or firmware or entirely in special purpose hardwired circuitry or in a combination of such forms. Software or firmware used for implementing the techniques introduced here may be stored on a machine readable storage medium and may be executed by one or more general purpose or special purpose programmable microprocessors.

In addition to the above mentioned examples various other modifications and alterations of the invention may be made without departing from the invention. Accordingly the above disclosure is not to be considered as limiting and the appended claims are to be interpreted as encompassing the true spirit and the entire scope of the invention.

The various embodiments are described above with reference to flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams of methods apparatus systems and computer program products. It will be understood that each block of the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams and combinations of blocks in the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams can be implemented by computer program instructions. These computer program instructions may be provided to a processor of a general purpose computer special purpose computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a machine such that the instructions which execute via the processor of the computer or other programmable data processing apparatus create means for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

A machine readable storage medium as the term is used herein includes any mechanism that can store information in a form accessible by a machine a machine may be for example a computer network device cellular phone personal digital assistant PDA manufacturing tool any device with one or more processors etc. . For example a machine accessible storage medium includes recordable non recordable media e.g. read only memory ROM random access memory RAM magnetic disk storage media optical storage media flash memory devices etc. .

These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable medium that can direct a computer other programmable data processing apparatus or other devices to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer readable medium produce an article of manufacture including instructions which implement the function act specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer other programmable data processing apparatuses or other devices to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer other programmable apparatuses or other devices to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide processes for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

The aforementioned flowchart and diagrams illustrate the architecture functionality and operation of possible implementations of systems methods and computer program products according to various embodiments. In this regard each block in the flowchart or block diagrams may represent a module segment or portion of code which comprises one or more executable instructions for implementing the specified logical function s . It should also be noted that in some alternative implementations the functions noted in the block may occur out of the order noted in the figures. For example two blocks shown in succession may in fact be executed substantially concurrently or the blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order depending upon the functionality involved. It should also be noted that each block of the block diagrams and or flowchart illustrations and combinations of blocks in the block diagrams and or flowchart illustrations can be implemented by special purpose hardware based systems that perform the specified functions or acts or by combinations of special purpose hardware and computer instructions.

Although various features of the invention may be described in the context of a single embodiment the features may also be provided separately or in any suitable combination. Conversely although the invention may be described herein in the context of separate embodiments for clarity the invention may also be implemented in a single embodiment.

Reference in the specification to some embodiments an embodiment one embodiment or other embodiments means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiments is included in at least some but not necessarily all embodiments of the inventions.

It is to be understood that the phraseology and terminology employed herein are not to be construed as limiting and are for descriptive purposes only.

It is to be understood that the details set forth herein do not construe a limitation to an application of the invention.

Furthermore it is to be understood that the invention can be carried out or practiced in various ways and that the invention can be implemented in embodiments other than the ones outlined in the description above.

It is to be understood that the terms including comprising consisting and grammatical variants thereof do not preclude the addition of one or more components features steps or integers or groups thereof and that the terms are to be construed as specifying components features steps or integers.

