---

title: Establishing a social application layer
abstract: A virtual space may be presented within a plurality of virtual environments provided by different platforms without requiring idiosyncratic APIs associated with the virtual space for each different platform. An API adaptor module may be configured to facilitate interfacing between a single virtual space API and platform APIs associated with two or more different platforms. A space module may be configured to execute an instance of a virtual space, and to implement the instance of the virtual space to determine view information defining views of the instance of the virtual space for presentation via two or more virtual environments provided by the two or more platforms. Facilitating user interactivity with the virtual space via a given virtual environment provided by a given platform may include interfacing between the virtual space API and a platform API associated with the given platform.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09596277&OS=09596277&RS=09596277
owner: Kabam, Inc.
number: 09596277
owner_city: San Francisco
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150730
---
This disclosure relates to facilitating presentation of a virtual space within a plurality of virtual environments provided by different platforms without requiring idiosyncratic APIs associated with the virtual space for each different platform.

Presenting a virtual space within a virtual environment is known. Typically however a provider of the virtual space may be required to provide a separate application programming interface API for each different virtual environment in which the virtual space is presented. Thus a change to the virtual space may require corresponding changes to each of the separate APIs.

One aspect of the disclosure relates to a system configured to facilitate presentation of a virtual space within a plurality of virtual environments provided by different platforms without requiring idiosyncratic APIs associated with the virtual space for each different platform in accordance with one or more implementations. In exemplary implementations an API adaptor module may be configured to facilitate interfacing between a single virtual space API and platform APIs associated with two or more different platforms. There may be separate API adaptor modules or sub modules corresponding to individual ones of the different platforms. The API adaptor module may serve as a converter between the virtual space API and various platform APIs such that a single version of the virtual space may be presented in virtual environments provided by any of the different platforms. Thus a change to the virtual space may not necessitate corresponding changes to a plurality of virtual space APIs. Some implementations may ensure that the virtual space is displayed correctly within different virtual environments. Some implementations may facilitate accessing social graph information associated with individual virtual environments via the virtual space interacting with platform mechanics of individual virtual environments via the virtual space and or transferring publishing information between the virtual space and individual virtual environments.

In some implementations system may include one or more of one or more platform servers one or more space servers and or other components. The platform server s may be configured to communicate with one or more client computing platforms according to a client server architecture to provide virtual environments to users via client computing platform s . The space server s may be configured to interface with individual platform server s to supplement the functionality provided to the users with respect to the virtual environments. For example space server s may interface with individual platform server s via one or more APIs.

The space server s may be configured to execute one or more computer program modules. The computer program modules may include one or more of an API adaptor module a space module a social graph access module a platform mechanics module a platform publishing module and or other modules.

The API adaptor module may be configured to facilitate interfacing between a single virtual space API and platform APIs associated with two or more different platforms. Generally speaking an API may be viewed as a set of routines and or services used by an application program to direct the performance of procedures by a host environment and or host computing platform. Interfacing between two APIs e.g. a virtual space API and a platform API may include translating commands calls functions and or other information associated with APIs between the two APIs. The virtual space API may be associated with a virtual space provided by space module as described further herein. The two or more different platforms may correspond to individual ones of the platform server s . A given platform server may be associated with a specific platform API. The API adaptor module may be configured to facilitate proper display of the virtual space within virtual environments provided the platform server s . In some implementations the API adaptor module may include two or more sub modules each corresponding to individual platforms.

The space module may be configured to implement at least one instance of the virtual space to determine views of the virtual space. The views may then be communicated e.g. via streaming via object position data and or other information from the platform server s to the client computing platform s for presentation to users via two or more virtual environments provided by the platform server s . Facilitating user interactivity with the virtual space via a given virtual environment provided by a given platform may include interfacing between the virtual space API and the platform API associated with the given platform. User interactivity may include accessing social graph information associated with individual virtual environments via the virtual space interacting with platform mechanics of individual virtual environments via the virtual space transferring publishing information between the virtual space and individual virtual environments and or other interactions by a user with the virtual space.

The social graph access module may be configured to facilitate accessing social graph information associated with individual virtual environments provided by the platform server s . The social graph information may be accessed via the virtual space provided by the space module. Generally speaking a social graph may be viewed as a mapping of relationships e.g. personal professional familial and or other relationships between users associated directly and or indirectly with a given virtual environment. According to some implementations social graph information associated with a given virtual environment may include one or more of friends contacts relationship type relationship duration relationships in common and or other information included in a social graph of the given virtual environment. Social graph information associated with a given virtual environment may be used within the virtual environment provided by the space module. Accessing social graph information associated with a given virtual environment may include interfacing between the virtual space API and the platform API associated with the platform providing the given virtual environment.

The platform mechanics module may be configured to facilitate interacting with platform mechanics associated with individual virtual environments provided by the platform server s . The platform mechanics may be interacted with via the virtual space provided by the space module. Platform mechanics may be viewed generally as constructs of rules and or functions of a virtual environment. In some implementations platform mechanics associated with a given virtual environment may include one or more of invitations requests alerts gifts events and or other mechanics of the given virtual environment. Platform mechanics associated with a given virtual environment may be used within the virtual environment provided by the space module. Interacting with platform mechanics associated with a given virtual environment may include interfacing between the virtual space API and the platform API associated with the platform providing the given virtual environment.

The platform publishing module may be configured to facilitate transferring publishing information between the virtual space and individual virtual environments provided by the platform server s . Publishing information may be viewed as information provided by a user that persists within the virtual environment and is viewable and or otherwise accessible by one or more users. In accordance with some implementations publishing information associated with a given virtual environment provided by a given platform may include one or more of textual messages emails voice based communications video based communications wall posts and or other publishing information. Publishing information associated with a given virtual environment may be used within the virtual environment provided by the space module. Transferring publishing information between the virtual space and a given virtual environment may include interfacing between the virtual space API and the platform API associated with the platform providing the given virtual environment.

These and other features and characteristics of the present technology as well as the methods of operation and functions of the related elements of structure and the combination of parts and economies of manufacture will become more apparent upon consideration of the following description and the appended claims with reference to the accompanying drawings all of which form a part of this specification wherein like reference numerals designate corresponding parts in the various figures. It is to be expressly understood however that the drawings are for the purpose of illustration and description only and are not intended as a definition of the limits of the invention. As used in the specification and in the claims the singular form of a an and the include plural referents unless the context clearly dictates otherwise.

In some implementations system may include one or more of one or more platform servers e.g. platform A server s platform B server s platform C server s and or other platform servers one or more space servers and or other components. The platform server s may be configured to communicate with one or more client computing platforms according to a client server architecture to provide virtual environments to users via client computing platform s . The space server s may be configured to interface with individual platform server s to supplement the functionality provided to the users with respect to the virtual environments. For example space server s may interface with individual platform server s via one or more APIs.

The space server s may be configured to execute one or more computer program modules. The computer program modules may include one or more of an API adaptor module a space module a social graph access module a platform mechanics module a platform publishing module and or other modules.

The API adaptor module may be configured to facilitate interfacing between a single virtual space API and platform APIs associated with two or more different platforms. Generally speaking an API may be viewed as a set of routines and or services used by an application program to direct the performance of procedures by a host environment and or host computing platform. Interfacing between two APIs e.g. a virtual space API and a platform API may include translating commands calls functions and or other information associated with APIs between the two APIs. The virtual space API may be associated with a virtual space provided by space module as described further herein. The two or more different platforms may correspond to platform server s . As depicted in platform A server s may be associated with a specific API for example platform A API. Similarly platform B server s and platform C server s may be respectively associated with platform B API and platform C API. The API adaptor module may be configured to facilitate proper display of the virtual space within virtual environments provided platform server s .

In some implementations API adaptor module may includes two or more sub modules each corresponding to individual platforms. As depicted in API adaptor module may include platform A API sub module platform B API sub module platform C API sub module and or other sub modules. The platform A API sub module may be configured to facilitate interfacing between a virtual space API and platform A API of platform A server s . The platform B API sub module may be configured to facilitate interfacing between a virtual space API and platform B API of platform B server s . The platform C API sub module may be configured to facilitate interfacing between a virtual space API and platform C API of platform C server s 

The space module may be configured to implement at least one instance of the virtual space to determine views of the virtual space. The views may then be communicated e.g. via streaming via object position data and or other information from platform server s to client computing platform s for presentation to users via two or more virtual environments provided by platform server s . Facilitating user interactivity with the virtual space via a given virtual environment provided by a given platform may include interfacing between the virtual space API and the platform API associated with the given platform. User interactivity may include accessing social graph information associated with individual virtual environments via the virtual space interacting with platform mechanics of individual virtual environments via the virtual space transferring publishing information between the virtual space and individual virtual environments and or other interactions by a user with the virtual space.

The view determined and transmitted to a given client computing platform may correspond to a user character being controlled by a user via the given client computing platform . The view determined and transmitted to a given client computing platform may correspond to a location in the virtual space e.g. the location from which the view is taken the location the view depicts and or other locations a zoom ratio a dimensionality of objects a point of view and or view parameters. One or more of the view parameters may be selectable by the user.

The instance of the virtual space may comprise a simulated space that is accessible by users via clients e.g. client computing platform s that present the views of the virtual space to a user. The simulated space may have a topography express ongoing real time interaction by one or more users and or include one or more objects positioned within the topography that are capable of locomotion within the topography. In some instances the topography may be a 2 dimensional topography. In other instances the topography may be a 3 dimensional topography. The topography may include dimensions of the space and or surface features of a surface or objects that are native to the space. In some instances the topography may describe a surface e.g. a ground surface that runs through at least a substantial portion of the space. In some instances the topography may describe a volume with one or more bodies positioned therein e.g. a simulation of gravity deprived space with one or more celestial bodies positioned therein . The instance executed by the computer modules may be synchronous asynchronous and or semi synchronous.

The above description of the manner in which views of the virtual space are determined by space module is not intended to be limiting. The space module may be configured to express the virtual space in a more limited or more rich manner. For example views determined for the virtual space may be selected from a limited set of graphics depicting an event in a given place within the virtual space. The views may include additional content e.g. text audio pre stored video content and or other content that describes particulars of the current state of the place beyond the relatively generic graphics. For example a view may include a generic battle graphic with a textual description of the opponents to be confronted. Other expressions of individual places within the virtual space are contemplated.

Within the instance s of the virtual space executed by space module users may control characters objects simulated physical phenomena e.g. wind rain earthquakes and or other phenomena and or other elements within the virtual space to interact with the virtual space and or each other. The user characters may include avatars. As used herein the term user character may refer to an object or group of objects present in the virtual space that represents an individual user. The user character may be controlled by the user with which it is associated. The user controlled element s may move through and interact with the virtual space e.g. non user characters in the virtual space other objects in the virtual space . The user controlled elements controlled by and or associated with a given user may be created and or customized by the given user. The user may have an inventory of virtual goods and or currency that the user can use e.g. by manipulation of a user character or other user controlled element and or other items within the virtual space.

The users may participate in the instance of the virtual space by controlling one or more of the available user controlled elements in the virtual space. Control may be exercised through control inputs and or commands input by the users through client computing platform s . The users may interact with each other through communications exchanged within the virtual space. Such communications may include one or more of textual chat instant messages private messages voice communications and or other communications. Communications may be received and entered by the users via their respective client computing platform s . Communications may be routed to and from the appropriate users through space server s e.g. through space module and or individual ones of platform server s .

The social graph access module may be configured to facilitate accessing social graph information associated with individual virtual environments provided by platform server s . The social graph information may be accessed via the virtual space provided by space module . Generally speaking a social graph may be viewed as a mapping of relationships e.g. personal professional familial and or other relationships between users associated directly and or indirectly with a given virtual environment. According to some implementations social graph information associated with a given virtual environment may include one or more of friends contacts relationship type relationship duration relationships in common and or other information included in a social graph of the given virtual environment. Social graph information associated with a given virtual environment may be used within the virtual environment provided by space module . Accessing social graph information associated with a given virtual environment may include interfacing between the virtual space API and the platform API associated with the platform providing the given virtual environment.

The platform mechanics module may be configured to facilitate interacting with platform mechanics associated with individual virtual environments provided by platform server s . The platform mechanics may be interacted with via the virtual space provided by space module . Platform mechanics may be viewed generally as constructs of rules and or functions of a virtual environment. In some implementations platform mechanics associated with a given virtual environment may include one or more of invitations requests alerts gifts events and or other mechanics of the given virtual environment. Platform mechanics associated with a given virtual environment may be used within the virtual environment provided by space module . Interacting with platform mechanics associated with a given virtual environment may include interfacing between the virtual space API and the platform API associated with the platform providing the given virtual environment.

The platform publishing module may be configured to facilitate transferring publishing information between the virtual space and individual virtual environments provided by platform server s . Publishing information may be viewed as information provided by a user that persists within the virtual environment and is viewable and or otherwise accessible by one or more users. In accordance with some implementations publishing information associated with a given virtual environment provided by a given platform may include one or more of textual messages emails voice based communications video based communications wall posts and or other publishing information. Publishing information associated with a given virtual environment may be used within the virtual environment provided by space module . Transferring publishing information between the virtual space and a given virtual environment may include interfacing between the virtual space API and the platform API associated with the platform providing the given virtual environment.

In some implementations individual platform server s may comprise electronic storage one or more processors and or other components. For example platform server s may include communication lines or ports to enable the exchange of information with a network and or other computing platforms. The processors may be configured to execute computer program modules to provide one or more virtual environments to users via client computing platform s . The processors may be configured to execute the computer program modules via one or more of hardware software and or firmware. Although system may be described in certain sections herein as including platform server s this is not intended to be limiting. The platform server s may be separate and distinct from system and may be provided by an entity that is separate from for example the entity providing space server s . In some implementations some or all of the functionality attributed herein to platform server s may be provided by space server s .

As used herein a virtual environment may include a virtual space one or more interactive electronic social media and or other virtual environments. Exemplary virtual spaces are described herein. Interactive electronic social media may include one or more of a social network a virtual space a micro blogging service a blog service or host a browser based game a multi player mobile game a file e.g. image file video file and or other files sharing service a messaging service a message board a forum and or other electronically distributed media that are scalable and enable interaction between the users. Some non limiting specific examples of interactive electronic social media may include the micro blogging service provided by Twitter the social network provided by Facebook the social network provided by Google the social network provided by MySpace the social network provided by Foursquare the virtual world provided by SecondLife the massively multi player online game provided by World of Warcraft the file sharing service provided by Flickr Blogger YouTube PlayStation Home Xbox Live and or other interactive electronic social media.

A given client computing platform may include one or more processors configured to execute computer program modules. The computer program modules may be configured to enable an expert or user associated with the given client computing platform to interface with system and or external resources and or provide other functionality attributed herein to client computing platform s . By way of non limiting example the given client computing platform may include one or more of a desktop computer a laptop computer a handheld computer a NetBook a Smartphone a gaming console and or other computing platforms.

The external resources may include sources of information hosts and or providers of virtual environments outside of system external entities participating with system and or other resources. In some implementations some or all of the functionality attributed herein to external resources may be provided by resources included in system .

The space server s may include electronic storage one or more processors and or other components. The space server s may include communication lines or ports to enable the exchange of information with a network and or other computing platforms. Illustration of space server s in is not intended to be limiting. The space server s may include a plurality of hardware software and or firmware components operating together to provide the functionality attributed herein to space server s . For example space server s may be implemented by a cloud of computing platforms operating together as space server s .

Electronic storage may comprise electronic storage media that electronically stores information. The electronic storage media of electronic storage may include one or both of system storage that is provided integrally i.e. substantially non removable with space server s and or removable storage that is removably connectable to space server s via for example a port e.g. a USB port a firewire port etc. or a drive e.g. a disk drive etc. . Electronic storage may include one or more of optically readable storage media e.g. optical disks etc. magnetically readable storage media e.g. magnetic tape magnetic hard drive floppy drive etc. electrical charge based storage media e.g. EEPROM RAM etc. solid state storage media e.g. flash drive etc. and or other electronically readable storage media. The electronic storage may include one or more virtual storage resources e.g. cloud storage a virtual private network and or other virtual storage resources . Electronic storage may store software algorithms information determined by processor s information received from platform server s information received from client computing platform s and or other information that enables space server s to function as described herein.

Processor s is configured to provide information processing capabilities in space server s . As such processor s may include one or more of a digital processor an analog processor a digital circuit designed to process information an analog circuit designed to process information a state machine and or other mechanisms for electronically processing information. Although processor s is shown in as a single entity this is for illustrative purposes only. In some implementations processor s may include a plurality of processing units. These processing units may be physically located within the same device or processor s may represent processing functionality of a plurality of devices operating in coordination. The processor s may be configured to execute modules and or other modules. The processor s may be configured to execute modules and or by software hardware firmware some combination of software hardware and or firmware and or other mechanisms for configuring processing capabilities on processor s .

It should be appreciated that although modules and are illustrated in as being co located within a single processing unit in implementations in which processor s includes multiple processing units one or more of modules and or may be located remotely from the other modules. The description of the functionality provided by the different modules and or described herein is for illustrative purposes and is not intended to be limiting as any of modules and or may provide more or less functionality than is described. For example one or more of modules and or may be eliminated and some or all of its functionality may be provided by other ones of modules and or . As another example processor s may be configured to execute one or more additional modules that may perform some or all of the functionality attributed below to one or more of modules and or .

In some implementations method may be implemented in one or more processing devices e.g. a digital processor an analog processor a digital circuit designed to process information an analog circuit designed to process information a state machine and or other mechanisms for electronically processing information . The one or more processing devices may include one or more devices executing some or all of the operations of method in response to instructions stored electronically on an electronic storage medium. The one or more processing devices may include one or more devices configured through hardware firmware and or software to be specifically designed for execution of one or more of the operations of method .

At an operation interfacing may be facilitated between a single virtual space API and platform APIs associated with two or more different platforms. Operation may be performed by an API adaptor module that is the same as or similar to API adaptor module in accordance with one or more implementations.

At an operation an instance of a virtual space may be executed. Operation may be performed by a space module that is the same as or similar to space module in accordance with one or more implementations.

At an operation the instance of the virtual space may be implemented to determine view information defining views of the instance of the virtual space for presentation via two or more virtual environments provided by the two or more platforms. Facilitating user interactions with the virtual space via a given virtual environment provided by a given platform may include interfacing between the virtual space API and the platform API associated with the given platform. Operation may be performed by a space module that is the same as or similar to space module in accordance with one or more implementations.

At an operation accessing via the virtual space social graph information associated with individual virtual environments provided by the two or more platforms may be facilitated. Accessing social graph information associated with a given virtual environment may include interfacing between the virtual space API and the platform API associated with the platform providing the given virtual environment. Operation may be performed by a social graph access module that is the same as or similar to social graph access module in accordance with one or more implementations.

At an operation interacting via the virtual space with platform mechanics associated with individual virtual environments provided by the two or more platforms may be facilitated. Interacting with platform mechanics associated with a given virtual environment may include interfacing between the virtual space API and the platform API associated with the platform providing the given virtual environment. Operation may be performed by a platform mechanics module that is the same as or similar to platform mechanics module in accordance with one or more implementations.

At an operation transferring publishing information may be facilitated between the virtual space and individual virtual environments provided by the two or more platforms. Transferring publishing information between the virtual space and a given virtual environment may include interfacing between the virtual space API and the platform API associated with the platform providing the given virtual environment. Operation may be performed by a platform publishing module that is the same as or similar to platform publishing module in accordance with one or more implementations.

Although the present technology has been described in detail for the purpose of illustration based on what is currently considered to be the most practical and preferred implementations it is to be understood that such detail is solely for that purpose and that the technology is not limited to the disclosed implementations but on the contrary is intended to cover modifications and equivalent arrangements that are within the spirit and scope of the appended claims. For example it is to be understood that the present technology contemplates that to the extent possible one or more features of any implementation can be combined with one or more features of any other implementation.

