---

title: Portable toilet seat adapter with an integrated carrying case
abstract: A portable toilet seat adapter () can size down a stationary toilet to a child size and also provide a sanitary barrier. The seat adapter () comprises a carrying case () and an open-front toilet seat () in a U-shape. The toilet seat () folds in a catty-corner position for size reduction and then folds into the carrying case (). Living hinges are rotatable hinges integrated in the toilet seat () so that the toilet seat () can be formed from a single molding. Also, living hinges are integrated between a lid () for rotation around a base () and the carrying case () can be formed from a single mold. Fasteners that close the carrying case () can also be living hinges and formed from the same single mold as the carrying case ().
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09498097&OS=09498097&RS=09498097
owner: 
number: 09498097
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20150618
---
This application claims the benefit of priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 e to U.S. Application No. 62 013 539 filed Jun. 18 2014 entitled TRAVEL CHILD ADAPTER SEAT FOR RESTROOMS by Linda Grant the contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The invention relates generally to a toilet seat adapter and more specifically to a portable toilet seat adapter with an integrated carrying case for use on a stationary toilet.

First toilet seats are not adapted for the smaller body frame of toddlers. Without a smaller base the child does not have proper support to the sides of a commode. Secondly restrooms and public restrooms in particular are known to fester germs and viruses. Many currently available products carry the germs and viruses after use in various public restrooms. Moreover many currently available products are not compactable in order to drastically reduce the size of the travel toilet as carried. Additionally currently available products that fold for a reduction in size are dangerous because a child s skin can get pinched in the hinges for example with screws.

To meet the above described needs a portable toilet seat adapter with an integrated carrying case and associated methods and methods of manufacture are described.

In a first embodiment a portable toilet seat adapter comprises a carrying case and an open front toilet seat . In an embodiment the carrying case includes a lid having a front A and a rear B a base having a front A and a rear B at least one fastener A C that couples the lid rear B and to the base rear B to close the carrying case and a first living hinge that rotatably couples the lid front A to the base front A .

In another embodiment an open front toilet seat in a U shape the open front toilet seat includes a front portion A A having an open end of the U shape and fitting over a corresponding front portion of the stationary toilet seat a rear portion B B having the closed end of the U shape and fitting over a corresponding rear portion of the stationary toilet seat a stationary hinge to rotatably couple the rear portion B B of the U shape to the base of the carrying case and at least a second living hinge A B to allow the open front toilet seat to fold in a catty corner position to fit into the carrying case to close with the at least one fastener A C the open front toilet seat being larger than the carrying case when unfolded.

Advantageously the travel potty protects children from germs and bacteria on public toilet seats. A compact size and light weight makes the travel potty easy to grab and carry on the go. Parent and caregivers no longer need to be stressed and anxious over how to accommodate a child in public when needing to use a restroom. Air vents can be popped open while the travel potty remains in a closed position in order to prevent dampness and germs. A no pinch factor makes the travel potty safe for children to continue potty training. A glow in the dark version allows the travel potty to be easily located even in dark environments such as the trunk of an automobile. A hook can be added to the case to allow the travel potty to open up vertically for example from the door hook on a nearby door or wall. The travel potty is composed of sanitary antiviral material. Therefore adults can use a standard sized travel potty for sanitary reasons alone. These are just exemplary advantages and configurations.

A portable toilet seat adapter with an integrated carrying case travel potty and associated methods and methods of manufacture are described herein in further detail. The travel potty can be used to adapt commercial or home toilet stationary toilet seats of various shapes. Conveniently the travel potty has a folding seat that can be folded to fit within a compact carrying case that is integrally attached to the folding seat. One of ordinary skill in the art will recognize variations of the examples given within that are within the scope of the disclosure.

Furthermore a living hinge formed from a single mold enables rotation without having separate parts that can pinch a child.

In some embodiments the folding seat in some embodiments is sized for a child and in other embodiment is standard size. Additional embodiments size the folding seat to adapt to a conventional toilet seat while yet other embodiments adapt to a reduced size toilet seat such as an airplane train or bus toilet seat.

Additionally living hinge built into the case bottom provides integrated rotation between the case bottom and case lid . The living hinge is like an elbow by allowing rotation while being integral with the case bottom by being cast from a single mold. In one embodiment a pinch free or no pinch factor case bottom is cast from a single mold such that the living hinges are part of the mold casting. Accordingly a plastic molding includes plastic hinges. The integral hinges are safer because they do not pinch the skin of a child while in use. In further detail the hinges have fewer degrees of freedom than separate independent hinges which are not so constrained. An independent screw rod or other component would have more degrees of freedom which in turn allows skin to roll into spaces between the hinges and pinch children.

In some embodiments the folding seat also includes seat handles for sanitary self support. The seat handles can be part of the single mold casting for the folding seat . Base hinges which can also be living hinges fasten the folding seat to the case bottom.

Additionally the left A right B and center pads C are shown in position for attachment to the folding seat . Any type of glues or adhesives fasteners molding or other suitable techniques can be utilized for supporting the attachment.

As will be understood by those familiar with the art the invention may be embodied in other specific forms without departing from the spirit or essential characteristics thereof. Likewise the particular naming and division of the portions components functions procedures actions layers features attributes methodologies other aspects are not mandatory or significant and the mechanisms that implement the invention or its features may have different names divisions and or formats. The foregoing description for purpose of explanation has been described with reference to specific embodiments. However the illustrative discussions above are not intended to be exhaustive or limiting to the precise forms disclosed. Many modifications and variations are possible in view of the above teachings. The embodiments were chosen and described in order to best explain relevant principles and their practical applications to thereby enable others skilled in the art to best utilize various embodiments with or without various modifications as may be suited to the particular use contemplated.

