---

title: System optical magnification change without image quality deterioration or reduction
abstract: In an implementation, a computer-implemented method includes receiving a digital signal from an image acquisition sensor, the digital signal encoded with an initial resolution. A video image is constructed from the digital signal to display on a micro display of an optical system, an initial linear dimension of the video image smaller than a linear dimension of an active area of the micro display. A display of the video image is initiated on the micro display using monochrome sub-pixels configured to act as independent pixels for display of the video image. A magnification request is received for the video image on the micro display, and the video image is adjusted on the micro display by increasing a linear dimension of the video image on the micro display by combining groups of monochrome sub-pixels to collectively represent a single pixel of the video image at the initial resolution.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09380215&OS=09380215&RS=09380215
owner: JSC Yukon Advanced Optics Worldwide
number: 09380215
owner_city: Vilneus
owner_country: LT
publication_date: 20150302
---
This application claims priority under 35 USC 119 a to European Application Serial No. 14157457.4 filed on Mar. 3 2014 the entire contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference.

Optical systems for example those used in daylight and or night vision capable devices such as guidance system firearm weapon sights tracking systems telescopes monoculars binoculars night viewing and or other devices can convert optical images into digital images and add supplementary information e.g. target data time ambient temperature air humidity wind velocity etc. for display on a digital display as well as allowing magnification of the digital image. Without increasing the size of the optical system digital display magnification e.g. zooming of digital images typically result in a resolution reduction of the digital image and a resultant deterioration of a frequency contrast characteristic FCC for the optical system as a whole.

The present disclosure describes magnification of a digital image without image quality deterioration or reduction.

In a first implementation an optical system includes a lens constructing an image of articles which are in a field of view of an image acquisition sensor which converts radiant energy into an electrical signal electronic components associated with an image processing electronic board that converts the electrical signal from the image acquisition sensor into a digital signal a micro display converting the digital signal into a video image displayed on the micro display wherein micro display pixel density is of a higher resolution than a resolution of acquisition sensor pixel density and wherein each pixel of the micro display comprises a plurality of monochrome sub pixels the monochrome sub pixels of a smaller size than pixels of the image acquisition sensor and the plurality of monochrome sub pixels used by a matrix control system to increase the resolution of the micro display and to permit magnification of the video image displayed on the micro display without cropping the video image and an eyepiece through which the video image from the micro display image is projected.

Other aspects of this first implementation can include corresponding mechanical apparatuses and computer systems as well as computer programs recorded on one or more non transitory computer readable media storage devices each configured to perform the actions of the methods. A system of one or more computers can be configured to perform particular operations or actions by virtue of having software firmware hardware or a combination of software firmware or hardware installed on the system that in operation causes or causes the system to perform the actions. One or more computer programs can be configured to perform particular operations or actions by virtue of including instructions that when executed by data processing apparatus cause the apparatus to perform the actions.

The foregoing and other implementations can each optionally include one or more of the following features alone or in combination 

A first aspect combinable with the general implementation wherein a linear dimension of the image acquisition sensor remains constant

A second aspect combinable with any of the previous aspects wherein a sub pixel diagonal dimension is two times smaller than a pixel diagonal dimension.

A third aspect combinable with the general implementation wherein a sub pixel optimum minimum diagonal dimension is not more than 5 m and a pixel cluster diagonal dimension is not more than 10 m.

A fourth aspect combinable with any of the previous aspects wherein the micro display can be switch from using a 5 m sub pixel to using a 10 m pixel in order to permit continued magnification to an active area of the micro display.

A fifth aspect combinable with the general implementation wherein each monochrome sub pixel can be used as a separate pixel or in combination with other monochrome sub pixels to construct the video image.

A sixth aspect combinable with any of the previous aspects wherein the dimension of the video image is smaller in dimension than an active area of the micro display allocated for imaging.

A seventh aspect combinable with any of the previous aspects wherein the optical system is used as a sight in a guidance system firearm tracking system telescope monocular or night viewing device.

An eighth aspect combinable with any of the previous aspects wherein a focal length between the eyepiece and a corresponding lens between the eyepiece and the micro display is fixed.

A ninth aspect combinable with any of the previous aspects wherein the eyepiece is configured to encompass a maximum linear field value associated with the micro display.

A tenth aspect combinable with any of the previous aspects wherein a digital signal corresponding to a pixel can be switched to instead correspond with a particular sub pixel.

In a second implementation a computer implemented method includes receiving a digital signal encoded with an initial resolution the digital signal constructed from visual data collected by an image acquisition sensor constructing a video image from the digital signal to display on a micro display of an optical system wherein an initial linear dimension of the video image is smaller than a linear dimension of an active area of the micro display allocated for imaging initiating display of the video image on the micro display wherein the video image is displayed using a plurality of monochrome sub pixels configured to act as independent pixels for display of the video image each monochrome sub pixel a smaller size than a pixel of the image acquisition sensor and each monochrome sub pixel associated with a group of other monochrome sub pixels that form a single pixel on the micro display receiving a magnification request for the video image on the micro display adjusting the video image on the micro display using a matrix control system the matrix control system increasing a linear dimension of the video image on the micro display by combining groups of monochrome sub pixels of the plurality of monochrome sub pixels where each group of monochrome sub pixels collectively represents a single pixel of the video image at the initial resolution and projecting the adjusted video image through an eyepiece.

Other aspects of this second implementation can include corresponding mechanical apparatuses and computer systems as well as computer programs recorded on one or more non transitory computer readable media storage devices each configured to perform the actions of the methods.

A first aspect combinable with the general implementation wherein overall micro display pixel density is of a higher resolution than a resolution of image acquisition sensor pixel density.

A second aspect combinable with the general implementation wherein the linear dimension of the image acquisition sensor remains constant.

A third aspect combinable with the general implementation wherein a sub pixel diagonal dimension is two times smaller than a pixel diagonal dimension.

A fourth aspect combinable with the general implementation wherein a sub pixel optimum minimum diagonal dimension is not more than 5 m and a pixel cluster diagonal dimension is not more than 10 m.

A fifth aspect combinable with the general implementation comprising switching the micro display from using a 5 m sub pixel to using a 10 m pixel in order to permit continued magnification to an active area of the micro display.

A sixth aspect combinable with the general implementation wherein a focal length between the eyepiece and a corresponding lens between the eyepiece and the micro display is fixed.

A seventh aspect combinable with the general implementation wherein the eyepiece is configured to encompass a maximum linear field value associated with the micro display.

An eighth aspect combinable with the general implementation comprising switching the digital signal corresponding to a pixel to instead correspond with a particular sub pixel to reduce video image size.

A system of one or more computers can be configured to perform particular operations or actions of the first and or second implementations and or other aspects of the first and or second implementations by virtue of having software firmware hardware or a combination of software firmware or hardware installed on the system that in operation causes or causes the described optical system to perform the actions. One or more computer programs can be configured to perform particular operations or actions by virtue of including instructions that when executed by data processing apparatus cause the apparatus to perform the actions.

The subject matter described in this specification can be implemented in particular implementations so as to realize one or more of the following advantages. First an optical image received by an optical system can be converted into a digital image and magnified e.g. zoomed without deterioration or reduction of the digital image that is preserving the digital image resolution. Second the digital image can be magnified as described without the overall dimensions including weight of the optical system increasing. Third the magnification functionality can be performed using a micro display e.g. a liquid crystal display LCD organic light emitting diode OLED or other type of micro display with resolution higher than a resolution of a charge coupled device CCD light sensitive area that captures an optical image. The use of the micro display can save weight and overall power consumption as part of the optical system. Fourth the described optical system and magnification technique can be used on both daylight and night vision capable devices extending the usefulness of the devices into situations where ambient light is naturally fading e.g. at dusk sunset pre dawn or when entering a no light or low light environment e.g. a building with no lights moonless cloudy night in woods jungle etc. . Other advantages will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art.

The details of one or more implementations of the subject matter of this specification are set forth in the accompanying drawings and the description below. Other features aspects and advantages of the subject matter will become apparent from the description the drawings and the claims.

The following detailed description and or illustration s are presented to enable any person skilled in the art to make use and or practice the disclosed subject matter and are provided in the context of one or more particular implementations. Various modifications to the disclosed implementations will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art and the general principles defined herein may be applied to other implementations and applications without departing from the scope of the disclosure. Thus the present disclosure is not intended to be limited to the described and or illustrated implementations but is to be accorded the widest scope consistent with the principles and features disclosed herein.

Optical systems for example those used in daylight and or night vision capable devices such as guidance system weapon sights tracking systems telescopes monoculars binoculars and or other devices can convert optical images into digital images and add supplementary information e.g. target data time ambient temperature air humidity wind velocity etc. for display on a digital display as well as allowing magnification of the digital image. Without increasing the size of the optical system digital display magnification e.g. zooming of digital images typically result in a resolution reduction of the digital image and a resultant deterioration of a frequency contrast characteristic FCC for the optical system as a whole.

Overall magnification in a digital optical system is typically expressed by the following equation ratio 

A change of one term of the equation causes a change of magnification for the system . As will be appreciated by those of ordinary skill in the art variations of the above described equation are possible and are considered to be within the scope of this disclosure wherever consistent with the described subject matter.

Two methods are typically used to change parameters in magnification of a received optical image of a target object 

Existing patent disclosures demonstrate that the above described image quality problem with digital magnification functionality has not been resolved. For example 

At a high level the described optical system and computer implemented method modify the image linear dimension of an image on the micro display and not an image linear dimension on the image acquisition sensor. The modification of the image linear dimension of an image on the micro display allows for a combination of several pixels as one pixel when magnifying the image i.e. it allows a sub pixel to operate as a pixel using a larger number of elements dots for imaging . As a result the resolution of the image remains the same e.g. as in the example above with the micro display resolution of 640 480 but the micro display s pixel dimension is changed. In typical implementations it is necessary that an eyepiece associated with the optical system see allows visibility of the micro display s maximum linear field in order to not artificially mechanically reduce the visible image during a micro display maximum magnification setting.

In typical implementations the micro display has a resolution higher than a resolution of the image acquisition sensor. In typical implementations a particular pixel of the micro display includes four sub pixels. In an ordinary color micro display each of the four sub pixels supplies a different color which is mixed to obtain an overall color for the particular pixel. Multiple pixels associated with the color micro display are used together to form a displayed color image. To implement the described magnification of a digital image without image quality deterioration or reduction the disclosure describes the use of a monochrome e.g. green or other single color pixel with four monochrome sub pixels e.g. see . Each sub pixel can also be separately used as an individual monochrome pixel through a matrix control system. As a result micro display resolution is increased by 2 and an image on the micro display can be magnified zoomed without image quality deterioration or reduction. The use of a micro display with a resolution higher than a resolution of the image acquisition sensor permits the described functionality without addition of additional hardware and mitigates or eliminates an increase in an overall dimensional or weight increase to the optical system.

The present disclosure describes an optical system including a computer system and computer implemented method for magnification of a digital image without image quality deterioration or reduction. The optical system is lightweight and compact and can be used in a multitude of applications including daylight and or night vision capable devices such as guidance system weapon sights tracking systems telescopes monoculars binoculars and or other devices.

In light of particularly enlarging reducing an image linear dimension of an image on the micro display allows a change in optical system magnification while not changing the eyepiece FOV angle as the eyepiece lens FOV angle is a constant. There is also no reduction of an overall optical system FCC. The image resolution is not reduced regardless of the magnification step when magnifying zooming the image on the micro display.

Use of the above described micro display sub pixels of a particular fixed size typically allow an image to be adjusted in size not to reduce crop but to magnify the image . In a typical implementation a standard mode the above described micro display sub pixels are sized at 5 m as part of an actual pixel sized at 10 m and are used as independent pixels to display an image at a default resolution on the micro display prior to a magnification request.

In some implementations the level of magnification for an image can vary depending for example on optical system available memory software version s and or mathematical functions processing used for the image data. In some implementations when the optical system reaches a 2 magnification the optical system can switch to a default 10 m pixel size treating a normally individual pixel as a subpixel as part of a larger group of pixels and continue magnification of an active area e.g. the optical system can provide selection tools for particular areas on the micro display on the micro display. The original image data can be accessed to reset and display the image using the default 5 m micro display sub pixels in a non magnified state.

When in the above described standard mode an image minimum dimension without quality deterioration is reached when using the sub pixels of the micro display as individual pixels. Note that if a dimension for the image on the micro display is set to be smaller than the image minimum dimension quality deterioration of the image can result because there are no smaller sub pixels to act as individual pixels and reducing the size of the image obtained from the image acquisition sensor can result in cropping of the displayed image.

Referring to Table 1 Table 1 below illustrates a micro display axis resolution when using either pixels of 10 m or sub pixels of 5 m as individual pixels. In some implementations a micro display of type MDP01A included in Table 1 or other micro display type can be used. For example 

Referring to Table 2 Table 2 below illustrates an image physical dimension when using either pixels of 10 m or sub pixels of 5 m as individual pixels at the resolutions described above in Table 1.

An image is transferred to the micro display from an image acquisition sensor e.g. a CCD not illustrated matrix in full resolution where data retrieved from each pixel of the image acquisition sensor matrix is set to a definite monochrome sub pixel. As a result the image displayed on the micro display possesses the image acquisition sensor matrix resolution remains invariable and the possible image physical dimensions are increased by 2 .

Note that one peculiarity of the described optical system is a mathematical apparatus e.g. software and hardware which can scale an image on a micro display not only by 2 . In some implementations it is possible to set a digital magnification with a definite step making digital magnification less than 2 . The ability to configure the optical system to operate in this manner depends at least in part on image acquisition sensor characteristics e.g. resolution and whether an image can be transferred to the micro display without resolution deterioration when using the full resolution of the image acquisition sensor e.g. available resolution of the micro display etc. .

In some implementations the lens can be configured of a material transparent to infrared IR or other particular radiation such as in thermal imaging systems ultraviolet UV imaging systems etc. In some implementations the lens can be configured of Germanium Ge quartz AMTIER barium fluoride calcium fluoride sodium chloride CLEARTRAN fused silica silicon polyethylene IR transparent ceramics and or any other type of substance transparent to infrared or other particular electromagnetic radiation. In some implementations the lens can be made of a substance transparent to both optical IR and or other radiation wavelengths e.g. quartz polyethylene etc. . In some implementations the lens and image acquisition sensor can be removed and replaced within an optical system housing not illustrated to change overall functionality without needing a separate optical system . In some implementations an lens can be configured as part of an optical system housing an attachment to the optical system housing or be an integral part of the image acquisition sensor meaning that there may not be a separate lens in which case a window to desired forms of radiation can be used to protect the image acquisition sensor in some implementations . In some implementations the image acquisition sensor can also be zoomed optically and or digitally to magnify received image data.

The image acquisition sensor converts radiant energy e.g. light in the visual spectrum infrared light etc. into an electrical analog signal e.g. a signal is generated for each photo detecting element in an element matrix of the image acquisition sensor . In some implementations various electronic components of the optical system convert the above mentioned electrical analog signal into a digital signal using an image processing electronic board e.g. hardware and or software including mathematical conversion software.

The generated digital signal is projected on a micro display as a video image with different electronic magnification factor functional capability. Pixel density of the micro display is of a higher resolution than a resolution of a photo detecting pixel density of the image acquisition sensor . Each pixel of the micro display includes a plurality of monochrome sub pixels e.g. four sub pixels where the monochrome sub pixels are of a smaller size e.g. 2 smaller diagonally than pixels of the image acquisition sensor and the plurality of monochrome sub pixels are used by a matrix control system to increase the resolution of the micro display and to permit magnification of the video image displayed on the micro display without cropping the video image. Each monochrome sub pixel can be used as a separate pixel or in combination with other monochrome sub pixels to construct the video image to display on the micro display . In typical implementations a digital signal corresponding to an image acquisition sensor pixel is switched to instead correspond with a particular sub pixel of the micro display .

In typical implementations a sub pixel optimum minimum diagonal dimension is not more than 5 m and a pixel cluster diagonal dimension is not more than 10 m. In these implementations the digital signal is converted into a video image using combinations of four sub pixels see of 5 m in size to form for example an image sized as in . The dimension of the video image is then smaller in dimension than an active area of the micro display allocated for imaging. In some implementations the micro display can also be switched from using a 5 m sub pixel to using a 10 m pixel in order to permit continued magnification to an active area of the micro display .

Magnification functions as described above are available to adjust the displayed video image. The displayed video image can viewed using eyepiece . In typical implementations the eyepiece is configured to encompass a maximum linear field value associated with the micro display and a focal length between the eyepiece and a corresponding lens between the eyepiece and the micro display is fixed see .

At a digital signal encoded with an initial resolution is received. The digital signal is constructed from visual data collected by an image acquisition sensor. In typical implementations the linear dimension of the image acquisition sensor remains constant. From method proceeds to .

At a video image is constructed from the digital signal to display on a micro display of an optical system. Typically the initial linear dimension of the video image is smaller than a linear dimension of an active area of the micro display allocated for imaging. Typically the overall micro display pixel density is of a higher resolution than a resolution of image acquisition sensor pixel density. From method proceeds to .

At display of the video image is initiated on the micro display. Typically the video image is displayed using a plurality of monochrome sub pixels configured to act as independent pixels for display of the video image each monochrome sub pixel a smaller size than a pixel of the image acquisition sensor and each monochrome sub pixel associated with a group of other monochrome sub pixels that form a single pixel on the micro display. Typically a sub pixel diagonal dimension is two times smaller than a pixel diagonal dimension. From method proceeds to .

At a magnification request is received for the video image on the micro display. From method proceeds to .

At the video image is adjusted on the micro display using a matrix control system the matrix control system increasing a linear dimension of the video image on the micro display by combining groups of monochrome sub pixels of the plurality of monochrome sub pixels where each group of monochrome sub pixels collectively represents a single pixel of the video image at the initial resolution. Switching of the digital signal corresponding to a pixel to instead correspond with a particular sub pixel reduces video image size on the micro display while preserving the overall image resolution. In some implementations a sub pixel optimum minimum diagonal dimension is not more than 5 m and a pixel cluster diagonal dimension is not more than 10 m. In some implementations the micro display can be switched from using a 5 m sub pixel to using a 10 m pixel in order to permit continued magnification to an active area of the micro display. From method proceeds to .

At the adjusted video image is projected through an eyepiece. In typical implementations the eyepiece is configured to encompass a maximum linear field value associated with the micro display and a focal length between the eyepiece and a corresponding lens between the eyepiece and the micro display is fixed. After method stops.

In general the computer can serve as a server a client a network component a database etc. of a computing system and particularly as any component of the described optical system. The illustrated computer can be communicably coupled with a network . In some implementations one or more components of the computer may be configured to operate within a cloud computing based environment.

At a high level the computer is an electronic computing device operable to receive transmit process store or manage data and information associated with the described optical system. According to some implementations the computer may also include or be communicably coupled with an application server e mail server web server caching server streaming data server business intelligence BI server and or other server.

The computer can receive a request over network from a client application for example executing on another computer and respond to the received request by processing the received request in an appropriate software application for example application . In addition requests may also be sent to the computer from internal users e.g. from a command console or by other appropriate access method external or third parties other automated applications as well as any other appropriate entities individuals systems or computers.

Each of the components of the computer can communicate using a system bus . In some implementations any and or all the components of the computer both hardware and or software may interface with each other and or the interface over the system bus using an application programming interface API and or a service layer . The API may include specifications for routines data structures and object classes. The API may be either computer language independent or dependent and refer to a complete interface a single function or even a set of APIs. The service layer provides software services to the computer and or the EDCS . The functionality of the computer may be accessible for all service consumers using this service layer. Software services such as those provided by the service layer provide reusable defined business functionalities through a defined interface. For example the interface may be software written in JAVA C or other suitable language providing data in extensible markup language XML format or other suitable format. While illustrated as an integrated component of the computer alternative implementations may illustrate the API and or the service layer as stand alone components in relation to other components of the computer and or the described optical system. Moreover any or all parts of the API and or the service layer may be implemented as child or sub modules of another software module enterprise application or hardware module without departing from the scope of this disclosure.

The computer includes an interface . Although illustrated as a single interface in two or more interfaces may be used according to particular needs desires or particular implementations of the computer and or the described optical system. The interface can be used by the computer for communicating with other systems in a distributed environment including within the described optical system connected to the network whether illustrated or not . Generally the interface comprises logic encoded in software and or hardware in a suitable combination and operable to communicate with the network . More specifically the interface may comprise software supporting one or more communication protocols associated with communications such that the network or interface s hardware is operable to communicate physical signals within and outside of the described optical system.

The computer includes a processor . Although illustrated as a single processor in two or more processors may be used according to particular needs desires or particular implementations of the computer and or the described optical system. Generally the processor executes instructions and manipulates data to perform the operations of the computer . Specifically the processor executes the functionality required for magnification of a digital image without image quality deterioration or reduction.

The computer also includes a memory that holds data for the computer and or other components of the described optical system. Although illustrated as a single memory in two or more memories may be used according to particular needs desires or particular implementations of the computer and or the described optical system. While memory is illustrated as an integral component of the computer in alternative implementations memory can be external to the computer and or the described optical system.

The application is an algorithmic software engine providing functionality according to particular needs desires or particular implementations of the computer and or the described optical system particularly with respect to functionality required for magnification of a digital image without image quality deterioration or reduction. Further although illustrated as a single application the application may be implemented as multiple applications on the computer . In addition although illustrated as integral to the computer in alternative implementations the application can be external to the computer and or the described optical system.

There may be any number of computers associated with or external to the described optical system and communicating over the network . Further the term client user and other appropriate terminology may be used interchangeably as appropriate without departing from the scope of this disclosure. Moreover this disclosure contemplates that many users may use one computer or that one user may use multiple computers .

Implementations of the subject matter and the functional operations described in this specification can be implemented in digital electronic circuitry in tangibly embodied computer software or firmware in computer hardware including the structures disclosed in this specification and their structural equivalents or in combinations of one or more of them. Implementations of the subject matter described in this specification can be implemented as one or more computer programs i.e. one or more modules of computer program instructions encoded on a tangible non transitory computer storage medium for execution by or to control the operation of data processing apparatus. Alternatively or in addition the program instructions can be encoded on an artificially generated propagated signal e.g. a machine generated electrical optical or electromagnetic signal that is generated to encode information for transmission to suitable receiver apparatus for execution by a data processing apparatus. The computer storage medium can be a machine readable storage device a machine readable storage substrate a random or serial access memory device or a combination of one or more of them.

The terms data processing apparatus computer or electronic computer device or equivalent as understood by one of ordinary skill in the art refer to data processing hardware and encompass all kinds of apparatus devices and machines for processing data including by way of example a programmable processor a computer or multiple processors or computers. The apparatus can also be or further include special purpose logic circuitry e.g. a central processing unit CPU an FPGA field programmable gate array or an ASIC application specific integrated circuit . In some implementations the data processing apparatus and or special purpose logic circuitry may be hardware based and or software based. The apparatus can optionally include code that creates an execution environment for computer programs e.g. code that constitutes processor firmware a protocol stack a database management system an operating system or a combination of one or more of them. The present disclosure contemplates the use of data processing apparatuses with or without conventional operating systems for example LINUX UNIX WINDOWS MAC OS ANDROID IOS or any other suitable conventional operating system.

A computer program which may also be referred to or described as a program software a software application a module a software module a script or code can be written in any form of programming language including compiled or interpreted languages or declarative or procedural languages and it can be deployed in any form including as a stand alone program or as a module component subroutine or other unit suitable for use in a computing environment. A computer program may but need not correspond to a file in a file system. A program can be stored in a portion of a file that holds other programs or data e.g. one or more scripts stored in a markup language document in a single file dedicated to the program in question or in multiple coordinated files e.g. files that store one or more modules sub programs or portions of code. A computer program can be deployed to be executed on one computer or on multiple computers that are located at one site or distributed across multiple sites and interconnected by a communication network. While portions of the programs illustrated in the various figures are shown as individual modules that implement the various features and functionality through various objects methods or other processes the programs may instead include a number of sub modules third party services components libraries and such as appropriate. Conversely the features and functionality of various components can be combined into single components as appropriate.

The processes and logic flows described in this specification can be performed by one or more programmable computers executing one or more computer programs to perform functions by operating on input data and generating output. The processes and logic flows can also be performed by and apparatus can also be implemented as special purpose logic circuitry e.g. a CPU an FPGA or an ASIC.

Computers suitable for the execution of a computer program can be based on general or special purpose microprocessors both or any other kind of CPU. Generally a CPU will receive instructions and data from a read only memory ROM or a random access memory RAM or both. The essential elements of a computer are a CPU for performing or executing instructions and one or more memory devices for storing instructions and data. Generally a computer will also include or be operatively coupled to receive data from or transfer data to or both one or more mass storage devices for storing data e.g. magnetic magneto optical disks or optical disks. However a computer need not have such devices. Moreover a computer can be embedded in another device e.g. a mobile telephone a personal digital assistant PDA a mobile audio or video player a game console a global positioning system GPS receiver or a portable storage device e.g. a universal serial bus USB flash drive to name just a few.

Computer readable media transitory or non transitory as appropriate suitable for storing computer program instructions and data include all forms of non volatile memory media and memory devices including by way of example semiconductor memory devices e.g. erasable programmable read only memory EPROM electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM and flash memory devices magnetic disks e.g. internal hard disks or removable disks magneto optical disks and CD ROM DVD R DVD RAM and DVD ROM disks. The memory may store various objects or data including caches classes frameworks applications backup data jobs web pages web page templates database tables repositories storing business and or dynamic information and any other appropriate information including any parameters variables algorithms instructions rules constraints or references thereto. Additionally the memory may include any other appropriate data such as logs policies security or access data reporting files as well as others. The processor and the memory can be supplemented by or incorporated in special purpose logic circuitry.

To provide for interaction with a user implementations of the subject matter described in this specification can be implemented on a computer having a display device e.g. a CRT cathode ray tube LCD liquid crystal display LED Light Emitting Diode or plasma monitor for displaying information to the user and a keyboard and a pointing device e.g. a mouse trackball or trackpad by which the user can provide input to the computer. Input may also be provided to the computer using a touchscreen such as a tablet computer surface with pressure sensitivity a multi touch screen using capacitive or electric sensing or other type of touchscreen. Other kinds of devices can be used to provide for interaction with a user as well for example feedback provided to the user can be any form of sensory feedback e.g. visual feedback auditory feedback or tactile feedback and input from the user can be received in any form including acoustic speech or tactile input. In addition a computer can interact with a user by sending documents to and receiving documents from a device that is used by the user for example by sending web pages to a web browser on a user s client device in response to requests received from the web browser.

The term graphical user interface or GUI may be used in the singular or the plural to describe one or more graphical user interfaces and each of the displays of a particular graphical user interface. Therefore a GUI may represent any graphical user interface including but not limited to a web browser a touch screen or a command line interface CLI that processes information and efficiently presents the information results to the user. In general a GUI may include a plurality of user interface UI elements some or all associated with a web browser such as interactive fields pull down lists and buttons operable by the business suite user. These and other UI elements may be related to or represent the functions of the web browser.

Implementations of the subject matter described in this specification can be implemented in a computing system that includes a back end component e.g. as a data server or that includes a middleware component e.g. an application server or that includes a front end component e.g. a client computer having a graphical user interface or a Web browser through which a user can interact with an implementation of the subject matter described in this specification or any combination of one or more such back end middleware or front end components. The components of the system can be interconnected by any form or medium of wireline and or wireless digital data communication e.g. a communication network. Examples of communication networks include a local area network LAN a radio access network RAN a metropolitan area network MAN a wide area network WAN Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WIMAX a wireless local area network WLAN using for example 802.11 a b g n and or 802.20 all or a portion of the Internet and or any other communication system or systems at one or more locations. The network may communicate with for example Internet Protocol IP packets Frame Relay frames Asynchronous Transfer Mode ATM cells voice video data and or other suitable information between network addresses.

The computing system can include clients and servers. A client and server are generally remote from each other and typically interact through a communication network. The relationship of client and server arises by virtue of computer programs running on the respective computers and having a client server relationship to each other.

In some implementations any or all of the components of the computing system both hardware and or software may interface with each other and or the interface using an application programming interface API and or a service layer. The API may include specifications for routines data structures and object classes. The API may be either computer language independent or dependent and refer to a complete interface a single function or even a set of APIs. The service layer provides software services to the computing system. The functionality of the various components of the computing system may be accessible for all service consumers using this service layer. Software services provide reusable defined business functionalities through a defined interface. For example the interface may be software written in JAVA C or other suitable language providing data in extensible markup language XML format or other suitable format. The API and or service layer may be an integral and or a stand alone component in relation to other components of the computing system. Moreover any or all parts of the service layer may be implemented as child or sub modules of another software module enterprise application or hardware module without departing from the scope of this disclosure.

While this specification contains many specific implementation details these should not be construed as limitations on the scope of any invention or on the scope of what may be claimed but rather as descriptions of features that may be specific to particular implementations of particular inventions. Certain features that are described in this specification in the context of separate implementations can also be implemented in combination in a single implementation. Conversely various features that are described in the context of a single implementation can also be implemented in multiple implementations separately or in any suitable sub combination. Moreover although features may be described above as acting in certain combinations and even initially claimed as such one or more features from a claimed combination can in some cases be excised from the combination and the claimed combination may be directed to a sub combination or variation of a sub combination.

Particular implementations of the subject matter have been described. Other implementations alterations and permutations of the described implementations are within the scope of the following claims as will be apparent to those skilled in the art. While operations are depicted in the drawings or claims in a particular order this should not be understood as requiring that such operations be performed in the particular order shown or in sequential order or that all illustrated operations be performed some operations may be considered optional to achieve desirable results. In certain circumstances multitasking and parallel processing may be advantageous.

Moreover the separation and or integration of various system modules and components in the implementations described above should not be understood as requiring such separation and or integration in all implementations and it should be understood that the described program components and systems can generally be integrated together in a single software product or packaged into multiple software products.

Accordingly the above description of example implementations does not define or constrain this disclosure. Other changes substitutions and alterations are also possible without departing from the spirit and scope of this disclosure.

