---

title: Output management for electronic communications
abstract: Methods, systems and devices are provided for managing electronic communications on a communication device including receiving an incoming call indication from an originating device. The methods, system and devices may include transmitting a delay indication in response to determining the delayed call acceptance is warranted and receiving a first message segment and subsequently a second message segment from the originating device. Additionally, they may include outputting at least one of the first message segment and the second message segment in response to determining whether to output at least one of the first message segment and the second message segment. Further, they may include transmitting a playback status including a series of status indications reflecting an updated output progress of the first message segment at a recipient device in response to determining the first message segment should be output.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09179277&OS=09179277&RS=09179277
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 09179277
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150113
---
This application is a continuation application of and claims the benefit of priority to U.S. Non provisional patent application No. 13 796 561 entitled Output Management for Electronic Communications filed Mar. 12 2013 assigned to the assignee hereof the entire contents of which is hereby incorporated by reference for all purposes.

Various wired and wireless networks have evolved to handle Push To Talk PTT communication sessions including PTT over cellular that makes two way radio service available to mobile communication devices over traditional cellular networks. PTT provides a quick one to one or one to many communication technique that is particularly useful for many applications. A PTT communication connection is typically initiated by pressing a button activating an icon or some other means of activation on an originating wireless communication device that opens communications between the originator and each member device of the group. Existing PTT systems have advantages over traditional cellular systems because they have faster call setup times e.g. setup times ideally in the range of 1 second compared to cellular voice channels that can take more than 5 seconds to establish a connection.

In some arrangements one PTT speaker at a time is given permission to speak. Such a permission is typically referred to as a floor grant where no other group member of the PTT session can speak until the mobile device with the floor grant releases the floor. Various forms of electronic communications have been developed for people to exchange information even when physically distant from one another. Through the use of electronic communication devices and telecommunication networks two or more people may communicate over virtually any distance. Historically such telecommunications were associated with just telephones but today computers and mobile electronic devices may also be used to communicate for exchanging not just audio i.e. voice but also text video data or any combination thereof.

While modern electronic communication devices are very useful at times the intended recipient of a live communication transmission such as a telephone or video conference call is not prepared or not in appropriate surroundings to receive the transmission. For example the recipient may be in a very quiet environment like a library or a very loud environment like a construction site making the audio output from the recipient communication device either unwelcome or inaudible. Also some virtually instant communication methods such as push to talk do not provide the recipient device a way of delaying or managing the incoming communications. Similarly in a very bright environment like outside on a sunny day or in a very dark environment like at a movie theatre a video output may not be clearly visible or may be inappropriate or undesirable. Also regardless of the environment surrounding the recipient device sometimes the recipient themselves may be busy or need a brief delay before getting involved in a call. In this way electronic communications often suffer user experience issues since users are unable to or limited in how they may manage the output of electronic communications.

The various embodiments include methods system and devices for managing electronic communications on a communication device including receiving an incoming call indication from an originating device. The methods system and devices may include transmitting a delay indication in response to determining the delayed call acceptance is warranted and receiving a first message segment and subsequently a second message segment from the originating device. Additionally they may include outputting at least one of the first message segment and the second message segment in response to determining whether to output at least one of the first message segment and the second message segment. Further they may include transmitting a playback status including a series of status indications reflecting an updated output progress of the first message segment at a recipient device in response to determining the first message segment should be output.

Further embodiments may include a computing device having a processor configured with processor executable instructions to perform various operations corresponding to the methods discussed above.

Further embodiments may include a computing device having various means for performing functions corresponding to the method operations discussed above.

Further embodiments may include a non transitory processor readable storage medium having stored thereon processor executable instructions configured to cause a processor to perform various operations corresponding to the method operations discussed above.

The various embodiments will be described in detail with reference to the accompanying drawings. Wherever possible the same reference numbers will be used throughout the drawings to refer to the same or like parts. References made to particular examples and implementations are for illustrative purposes and are not intended to limit the scope of the invention or the claims.

The word exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any implementation described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other implementations.

The terms Press to Transmit PTX Push To Talk or PTT are used herein interchangeably to refer to communication services that provides an always on connection or at least virtually always on like a walkie talkie. Traditional Push to talk PTT may use half duplex meaning communication may only travel in one direction at any given moment only one user may be heard at a time. A form of PTT messaging may also include the exchange of video. As such messaging is not limited to talk it is referred to as Press to Transmit or PTX. PTX may allow one communication group member to make video images available to the entire group. Also the expression press to transmit takes into account the fact that modern mobile communication devices often have touch screen interfaces that only require a press of a finger rather than a push. The video images may be stills or motion video and are similarly considered message segments. PTX communications may include audio or may be silent. Thus PTX may be considered a more generic term for communications of this type that exchange at least one of audio video and data messaging. Also PTX as used herein may use full duplex with controls over which communication group member s may have priority over a channel of communication. A PTX message segment refers to a communication segment that includes an audio and or video transmission generating by a user. The PTX message segment includes more than just signaling data and thus includes the substantive part of the message transmitted from that user to other members of the PTX group. The message transmitted may include an audio transmission such as a talk spurt a video transmission or a combination of these. In the descriptions of the various embodiments while the messages may be referred to in terms of one or more audio segments it should be understood that such messages may include or exclusively consist of video messages or other media streaming content intended for continuous live broadcast.

The term outputting as used herein refers to the action or process of producing delivering or supplying to and or from a device such as a communication device like a PTX device. Outputting may include generating an audio sound a video image series of images or other display. Also user interface UI components such as a display one or more speakers printing or other means may be used for outputting. Thus a communication device like a PTX device may be said to output audio video images text and other information.

The terms mobile device PTX device wireless communication device and communication device are used interchangeably herein to refer to any one or all of cellular telephones smartphones personal or mobile multi media players personal data assistants PDA s laptop computers tablet computers smartbooks palm top computers wireless electronic mail receivers multimedia Internet enabled cellular telephones wireless gaming controllers and similar personal electronic devices which include a programmable processor and memory and may include software and or hardware to enable group communication particularly push to talk functionality.

In an embodiment contemporary electronic communications may be enhanced by allowing a call originator to request a status indication from an intended recipient communication device. This may be done during or after a call is initiated by the call originator for example by sending a call initiation signal. The status indication may reflect the recipient device is ready to receive communications or it may reflect the recipient device has requested a delay. The status indication may be automatically generated by the recipient communication device or provided in response to user input from the recipient communication device. Alternatively the recipient communication device using its microphone may automatically detect loud conditions or a muffled condition. The user input may include the user pressing a button designated to indicate the recipient is requesting a delay. The call originator may be allowed start the call in spite of the fact that the recipient device has requested a delay. In this way the call originator s message may be saved in a memory buffer for delayed playback. Subsequently the recipient may elect to either playback the buffered message segment and start listening to live transmissions from the call originator. Also if the recipient elects to playback the buffered message segment a playback status may be provided to the call originator. In this way the call originator is kept apprised as to how much of the buffered message has been output from the recipient device. Additionally the call originator may be able to transmit a further signal either cutting off the delayed message playback or interrupting the playback with a further message.

In another embodiment various wired and wireless networks have evolved to handle PTX communication sessions including push to talk over cellular that makes two way radio service available to mobile communication devices over traditional cellular networks. Traditional telephones including mobile phone networks and devices utilize full duplex communications allowing customers to call other persons on a mobile or land line network and be able to simultaneously talk and hear the other party. Such communications require a connection to be started by dialing a phone number and the other party answering the call and the connection remains active until either party ends the call or the connection is dropped due to signal loss or a network outage. Traditional telephone communication protocols require a lengthy process of dialing network switching and routing call setup and waiting for the other party to answer. In contrast PTX has a much quicker protocol and provides virtually immediate communications. Existing PTX systems have setup times ideally in the range of 1 second compared to traditional cellular voice channels that can take more than 5 seconds to establish a connection. Also PTX provides the added advantage of allowing an initiating caller to establish that immediate connection with not just a single recipient device but rather a group of recipients.

In some arrangements one PTX speaker at a time is given permission to speak or send video images. Such a permission is typically referred to as a floor grant where no other group member of the PTX session can speak or send video until the mobile device with the floor grant releases the floor. Once given a floor grant the speaker s input is immediately routed to and output from the mobile devices of all other members of the group. So when communications start up in a PTX group rather than having to answer a call as with traditional telephone service the recipients immediately hear and or see the participant or an image transmitted by the participant who was granted the floor. Traditionally to release the floor the participant physically releases or reengages a PTX button after which any other individual member of the group may press his or her PTX button in order to request a floor grant i.e. make a floor request .

The various embodiments provide enhanced PTX communication functionality and methods of managing those communications. In particular the various embodiments allow individual PTX devices that are members of a PTX group to request the otherwise live PTX message segments i.e. talk or video spurts be diverted into a buffer for delayed playback by the requesting member s which may be referred to as a buffer request. In alternative embodiments PTX message segments may be buffered in the individual receiving PTX device in a server or connected memory in the communication system or in the sending PTX device. Further the PTX device may determine the need for buffering automatically based on ambient noise and or local conditions also referred to as the ambient environment . Meanwhile other members of that same PTX group not requesting buffering may still hear those PTX message segments without delay i.e. live as in traditional PTX. Additionally an originator of the message segments may be notified that one or more PTX group members have requested buffering or that buffering is taking place i.e. a buffer indication which implies those PTX group member PTX devices are not currently prepared to output messages or parts thereof. Further the originator may either deny the buffer request or be allowed to delete and or edit the buffered message segments before they are output from any device that did not hear them live. Knowing the buffered message segments will not be heard live the originator may decide he she does not need to be heard or the message should be rephrased. Eventually the buffered message segments may be output from those PTX group member devices that requested the buffering. Also those PTX group member devices from which a buffer request was received may eventually catch up so that subsequent non buffered message segments may be output from those devices.

The various embodiments may also include further enhancements related to message buffering during PTX communication sessions. For example a playback status of the buffered message segments may be provided to the originating PTX device. The playback status may indicate whether a particular message segment has been played back and or how much of it has been played back. Additionally the playback status may include a speech to text translation of the PTX message segment or at least portions thereof. Further the playback status may indicate the portion of that speech to text translation that has been output at a particular recipient PTX device.

As mentioned above the buffering may take place at the recipient PTX device requesting the buffer at the originating PTX device or some other memory storage resource available to the PTX network. Also a PTX network server may manage the buffered message segments so that once a ready signal is received indicating the buffer requesting recipient PTX device is ready to output message segments those segments may be output or the rest of the PTX group may be notified. Thus depending on whether the originating PTX device indicated a particular segment should be deleted it may be either allowed to output or prevented from outputting that segment when the ready signal is received.

In an embodiment a method system or device is disclosed for managing PTX communications on a PTX device. A recipient PTX device may receive a first indication that a floor grant has been granted to an originating PTX device. Also a determination may be made as to whether a PTX message segment from the originating PTX device should be buffered for delayed playback by the recipient PTX device. A buffer signal may be transmitted based on determining the PTX message segment should buffered. The buffer signal may indicate one of a request to buffer the PTX message segment and a recipient storage indication signifying the PTX message segment will be stored in a memory of the first recipient PTX device. Further a ready signal may be transmitted indicating the recipient PTX device is ready to output PTX message segments.

In the various embodiments the PTX message segment may be received at the recipient PTX device. Also the PTX message segment may be stored in the memory at the recipient PTX device in response to determining the PTX message segment should buffered the buffer signal including the recipient storage indication. Further a delete signal may be received associated with the PTX message segment which may include deleting the PTX message segment from the memory of the recipient PTX device. A floor taken signal may be received as the first indication that the originating PTX device has been granted the floor grant. The floor taken signal may be transmitted separately from the PTX message segment. Additionally a playback status may be transmitted indicating a portion of the PTX message segment that has been output from the recipient PTX device. Further an ambient noise level around the recipient PTX device may be measured. In this way determining whether the PTX message segment from the originating PTX device should be buffered may be based on the ambient noise level measurement. Further still input from a user interface of the recipient PTX device may be received. Thus determining whether the PTX message segment from the originating PTX device should be buffered may be based on the input from the user interface.

In another embodiment a method system and device for managing PTX communications between PTX devices is disclosed. In particular at least one of a buffer request and a buffer status may be received from a recipient PTX device. The buffer request and the buffer status may be associated with a PTX message segment from an originating PTX device being stored for delayed playback. Also a buffer indication may be transmitted to the originating PTX device reflecting at least one of the buffer request and the buffer status have been received from the recipient PTX device.

In the various embodiments the PTX message segment may be stored in a memory of the server. Also a ready signal may be received indicating the recipient PTX device is ready to output PTX message segments. The PTX message segment may then be transmitted to the recipient PTX device in response to receiving the ready signal. Further the PTX message segment may be stored in a memory of the server and a delete signal may be received from the originating PTX device. In this way the PTX message segment may be deleted from the memory to prevent outputting the PTX message segment from the recipient PTX device. Alternatively a first delete signal may be received from the originating PTX device for preventing the PTX message segment from being output from the recipient PTX device. Also a second delete signal may be transmitted to the recipient PTX device for the recipient PTX device to delete the PTX message segment. Further a playback status may be received at the server indicating how much of the PTX message segment has been output from the recipient PTX device. Additionally that playback status may be transmitted to the originating PTX device. Further still a speech to text translation of at least a portion of the PTX message segment may be received from the recipient PTX device. A playback status may thus be transmitted to the originating PTX device indicating the portion of the speech to text translation that has been output by the recipient PTX device. The speech to text translation of at least a portion of the PTX message segment may be generated by the server or a related resource. In this way a playback status may be transmitted to the originating PTX device indicating the portion of the speech to text translation that has been output by the recipient PTX device.

In a further embodiment a method system and device is disclosed for managing PTX communications on a PTX device. For example an originating PTX device with an active floor grant may receive at least one of a buffer request and a buffer status. The buffer request and the buffer status may be associated with a PTX message segment from the originating PTX device being stored for delayed playback at a recipient PTX device. Also the originating PTX device may output an indication of the at least one of a buffer request and the buffer status. A ready signal may be received indicating the recipient PTX device is ready to output PTX message segments.

In the various embodiments the PTX message segment may be stored in a memory at the originating PTX device. Also the PTX message segment may be transmitted in response to receiving the ready signal. The PTX message segment may be stored in a memory so a determination may be made as to whether the PTX message segment should be deleted. The PTX message segment may then be deleted from the memory in response to determining the PTX message segment should be deleted to prevent the recipient PTX device from outputting at least a portion of the PTX message segment. It may be determined whether at least one portion of the PTX message segment should be output from the recipient PTX device. Further a delete signal may be transmitted in response to determining the at least one portion of the PTX message segment should not be output from the recipient PTX device. A playback status may be received at the originating PTX device indicating how much of the PTX message segment has been output from the recipient PTX device. Additionally the playback status may be output at the originating PTX device. Alternatively a playback status may be received indicating how much of the PTX message segment has been output from the recipient PTX device. That playback status may include a speech to text translation of at least a portion of the PTX message segment. Also that playback status may be displayed on the originating PTX device display. Further still playback status may be received indicating how much of the PTX message segment has been output from the recipient PTX device and a speech to text translation of at least one portion of the PTX message segment is generated. The originating PTX device may display the playback status including the at least one portion of the speech to text translation.

In yet a further embodiment enhancements may be provided for video transmission to be included or sent instead of audio transmissions for PTX communications. For example the surroundings in the area of an originating device may be useful for transmission such as at a construction site or when the user of the originating device wants recipients see something other than him herself. Additionally the user of the originating device may transfer it to live image of him herself which can in turn enable further enhancements. For example image recognition and facial expression recognition may be used to transmit and translate facial expressions to text or emoticons. Also image recognition may be used to convert a message from sign language into a text message or an audio message.

Another embodiments allows an originating device to request information about the state of a recipient device such as the need for buffering. The information about the state of the recipient device may be displayed on the originating device s user interface UI such as a display. The recipient device may elect to play back the transmitted communications when ready may have the audio message converted to a text message or may fast forward through the audio video message to get caught up with the live broadcast from the originating device. Additionally the user of the originating device may designate key frames from a video transmission which the recipient user may elect to view rather than a full video.

Additional embodiments enable users of PTX devices to control the output mode of the device. Such controls may be manual i.e. initiated by user input or automatically by the PTX device. In this way the user of a recipient device may be able to switch to an audio only mode by making a selection on a UI. Also the user might elect to speed up or slow down the audio or video transmission by making another selection on the UI. These inputs may be done either by direct contact with the PTX device by the user or with gesture recognition. Gesture recognition may be performed by a PTX device provided with a camera and software capable of detecting and analyzing physical movements of the user or the orientation of the device. For example a vertical hand swipe by the user may represent one action and a horizontal hand swipe represents another. Alternatively an orientation of a PTX device may be employed such as facing the device right side down or right side up. As a further alternative the recipient device may use sensors to determine the user s condition and selects an appropriate mode. Also that mode may be switched as the users environment changes such as when a bright sun goes behind the clouds in an outdoor environment or if the ambient noise levels around the recipient device changes.

Further embodiments include recipient devices capable of receiving several audio and or video streams simultaneously. Rather than hearing and seeing all the video and audio segments simultaneously a user of a recipient device may elect to watch only select ones of the available videos or only listen to select ones of available audio. In this way the recipient device may display a video stream from one originating device that includes an audio output and display only the video stream from another originating device without the audio output there from. A device may also be provided with features to convert audio to text in order to minimize or eliminate some of the sound emitted from the recipient device. Also an audio to text conversion may provide subtitles to a video display. A further enhancement to this feature may even include language conversions of the subtitle text or video dubbing in the form of a audio output translated to a desired language. Further still action to text conversion features may be provided such that physical movements of a originating user are translated to text or an audio output. For example if the originating user is waving her hand as part of a message segment the recipient device may output as text WAVING HAND or provide an audio equivalent output thereof.

In order to be granted control of the PTX floor the first PTX device may initiate a floor request and after receiving a floor grant may start transmitting a message. In the first PTX device is shown as having the FLOOR GRANTED which means it received and currently maintains a floor grant. The second and third PTX devices are shown as having the Floor Taken which tells the users of those devices that the floor is in use by another member of the group. Additionally the second PTX device is shown as being in PLAYBACK mode which is a novel PTX mode described herein. For playback mode the message transmitted by the first PTX device rather than being output immediately was stored in a buffer. Prior to the point in time shown in the second PTX device indicated it was not ready to output PTX messages and made a buffer request. The buffer request if granted stores one or more message segments generated by the PTX device with the floor grant and allows the requesting PTX device to play them back after a delay. The delay may be a predetermined amount of time or may be as long as the requesting device needs to get ready to begin outputting the buffered segments. At the point in time shown in the second PTX device has started playback of the first of two message segments stored in its buffer. Three other PTX devices are also shown outputting the first PTX device s message LIVE similar to a traditional PTX output mode. Further aspects of the different PTX modes are described further below.

Below the participant images on the display are session status indicators describing the respective participants status in accordance with embodiments disclosed herein. The second third and fourth participants are shown as having a session status of Live which means they are listening to communications from the originating PTX device holding the floor grant without substantial delay. In this case those participants are listening to live communications from the first PTX device . In contrast the first participant is indicated as being Delayed. The Delayed session status means that participant was not available and has requested buffering. A buffer request is well suited for when a particular user knows he she is temporarily not able to listen or give their attention to the originating participant. Alternatively a participant device may automatically transmit a buffer request under certain circumstances. For example a PTX device may transmit a buffer request when it recognizes that it is in a very loud environment based on ambient noise levels measured by the device s microphone such as when the sound level exceeds a threshold in which the user will not be able to hear well. As another example a PTX device may transmit a buffer request when it recognizes that it is in a very quite environment like a library again based on measured ambient sound levels sensed by the device s microphone where the normal output from the device would be unwelcome. Regardless of whether the buffer request was user or device initiated once a buffer request is made it may be granted denied or even withdrawn after initially being granted. Also such a grant or denial may be done automatically based on predefined settings or manually by a user. In the illustrated example Seth R s buffer request was granted. A granted buffer request means that the communications transmitted from the originating PTX device get stored in a memory buffer for subsequent playback. The communications may be broken up into segments so participants can recall i.e. delete select segments and allow others to be heard on a delay. The break up of segments may be based on predefined time intervals pauses in the originator s speech or some other measure.

Again the memory buffer used to store the PTX message segments may be part of the originating PTX device the buffer requesting recipient device a server or some other element associated with the PTX group. In the example illustrated in a playback status is shown for each of two stored PTX message segments. The first of the two PTX message segments is illustrated in the process of being played back on the first participant s device . Each of the message segments may include further status indicators such as a numbered label field a played back time field and a yet to be played time field . Also a progress bar may be provided to give a direct visual indicator of the portion of PTX message segment played and not played. Selection buttons may also be provided for either accessing additional information about the segment or simply deleting the message segment from the memory buffer. In this way the user of the first PTX device may touch the screen on one of the selection buttons shown as a circle surrounding a minus sign in order to delete that message segment. Alternatively touching the selection buttons may expand the display for that message segment as described further below with regard to .

As shown in the wireless communication device may be a wireless communication telephone with a graphics display but may also be any wireless device with a processor platform as known in the art such as a personal digital assistant PDA a pager with a graphics display or even a separate processor platform that has a wireless communication portal and may otherwise have a wired connection to a network or the Internet. Further the memory may comprise read only or random access memory RAM and ROM EPROM EEPROM flash cards or any memory common to processor platforms. The processor platform may also include a local database for storage of software applications not actively used in memory . The local database is typically comprised of one or more flash memory cells but may be any secondary or tertiary storage device as known in the art such as magnetic media EPROM EEPROM optical media tape or soft or hard disk. The graphics display may present information about the ongoing group PTX call as is more fully described herein.

The processor platform may also include a direct communication interface that is configured to open a direct communication channel. The direct communication interface may also be part of the standard communication interface for the wireless communication device which ordinarily carries the voice video and or data transmitted to and from the wireless communication device . The direct communication interface may comprise hardware as is known in the art. In the various embodiments the software to enable PTX functionality in the wireless communication device may be pre installed in the device during device manufacture. Additionally or alternatively at least a portion of the software providing PTX functionality may be downloaded to or otherwise installed on the device . As yet a further alternative the PTX software or portions thereof may be a downloadable application e.g. a mobile app .

In an embodiment the wireless telecommunication devices may individually communicate with the server which is present on a server side network such as through a router across the wireless data network . The server may share information with a set of target wireless telecommunication devices designated by the originating PTX device or it may also share this with other computer devices accessible to the server either across the wireless network or another network. The server may have an attached or accessible database to store group data and or buffer message segments. Also some or all of the functions of the server router and database may be combined in a single device.

In various embodiments the server may establish PTX channels between all or select devices in the group . Such communications may occur through or at the control of the server . However all data packets of the devices do not necessarily have to travel through the server itself but in various embodiments the server is preferably able to ultimately control the communication because it is typically the only or main server side component that is aware of and or can retrieve the identity of the members of the communication group or direct the identity of the members of the communication group to another computer device. A PTX channel may be established through a half duplex channel true or virtual between the communicating wireless communication devices. The server may also inform some devices in the group when other members of that group cannot be reached or have requested a delay. Further while the server is shown here as having the attached database the server may have its own data storage and database functions.

In various embodiments the server may perform arbitration functions between competing demands of the various wireless communication devices for use or control of PTX communication channels over the wireless network . For example in response to a request from one wireless communication device to communicate with one or more other target devices in PTX group the server may establish a PTX channel between the requesting originating device and all or a portion of the requested target devices in group . The server may thus grant control of the floor to the originating wireless communication device. When competing requests exist amongst devices of the group for control of the floor the server may arbitrate between competing requests based on pre determined priority criteria. The priority criteria may be established at the time of the PTX group formation such as by a group administrator and stored in server and or database .

In various embodiments the server may be configured to receive the data packages from the wireless communication devices such as wireless communication devices and selectively permit members of the communication group to receive the stored data packages across the wireless communication network . In an embodiment data packages may include but are not limited to pictures in JPEG TIF and the like video files such as flash video AVI MOV MP4 MPG WMV 3GP and the like audio files such as MP3 MP4 WAV and the like documents and or presentations. The data packages may additionally include streaming media such as a multimedia application PowerPoint MOV file and the like . Also the data packages may include half duplex video conferencing among members of the communication group wherein the picture of the speaker may be broadcast to the other group members in substantial real time or in delay.

The system may use the server or database to store data packets including buffered message segments for target PTX devices to receive. Alternatively such data packets may be stored locally at the originating PTX device and or the recipient device s . Upon receipt of data packages by individual members of the PTX group the server may be informed and in turn the server may send an acknowledgement indicating to the originating PTX device which PTX group members have received such data packages and or the status if the communication is not yet received by them or in progress.

The wireless data network may include a series of communications servers that control communications between the wireless communication devices of the PTX group members in a PTX system. The wireless data network may include any system whereby remote modules communicate over the air between and among each other and or between and among components of a wireless network including without limitation wireless network carriers and or servers. A series of communications servers may be connected to a group communication server. Such servers may be connected to a wireless service. The wireless network may control messages generally in the form of data packets sent to a messaging service controller.

From block the process flow may split because two categories of recipients exist one category being the live recipients directly receiving new PTX message segments without significant delay if they do not request buffering and the other category being the buffering or delayed recipients that have a buffer request active. In order to further manage PTX communications for the live recipients the process may return to block to received further PTX message segments for that group. Also in order to manage PTX communications for the delayed recipients the process may simultaneously or contemporaneously transmit in block a buffer indication to the originating PTX device. Alternatively if all group members are determined to have requested buffering i.e. determination block Yes in block the server may similarly transmit a buffer indication to the originating PTX device. The buffer indication may reflect the fact that the buffer request has been received and from which of the recipient PTX devices it was received. In conjunction with transmitting a buffer request in block the PTX message segment may be stored by the server. Storing of message segments may be done locally at the server or at a remote network memory storage element available to the server for the purpose. Alternatively the storage of the PTX message segment may occur at either the originating PTX device or the PTX group member device requesting the buffering as described further below.

Once one or more PTX message segments have been stored the server may receive in block a ready signal. The ready signal may indicate a recipient PTX device that previously transmitted a buffer request is ready to output PTX message segments. Alternatively the server may not receive a ready signal from a recipient device prior to the close of the PTX communication session in which case the process need not proceed to block . However if a ready signal is received the server may then determine or previously have determined in block whether a delete signal has been received from the originating PTX device. The delete signal represents the fact that the originating PTX device does not want the delayed playback of the one or more buffered PTX message segments. If a delete signal has been received i.e. determination block Yes one or more PTX message segments may be deleted in block or the server may transmit a delete signal for the stored PTX message segment to be deleted. In block the server may await further PTX group communications. For example in block from block the process may revert to block ready to receive further PTX message segments or alternatively receive a floor request from another PTX device reverting to the method described above . However if a delete signal has not been received i.e. determination block No in block the server may transmit the previously stored PTX message segment to the one or more recipient PTX devices from which ready signals were received in block .

In the various embodiments when one or more buffered i.e. stored PTX message segments are being played back on a recipient PTX device a status of the playback may be reported to the server as well as the PTX device that originated the message. In this way in determination block the server may determine whether a playback status has been received from the ready members who received a PTX message segment in block . If a playback status is received i.e. determination block Yes in block the playback status may be transmitted to the originating PTX device and optionally the other member devices of the PTX group. Alternatively if no playback status is received i.e. determination block No the server may await further PTX group communication in block . As noted for block above the process may thereafter revert to block ready to receive further PTX message segments or alternatively receive a floor request from another PTX device.

In an embodiment the buffer request may be denied i.e. determination block Yes which means the originating sender does not wish recipients to playback buffered message segments. Thus in order to prevent such playback a delete signal may be transmitted to the server. If the originating PTX device stored the message locally in block then that stored message segment may be deleted along with a notification regarding the deletion being transmitted to the server in block . In block the originating PTX device may either relinquish the floor and await PTX group communications from others or continue transmitting one or more PTX message segments thus reverting to block .

If the buffer request is not denied i.e. determination block No previously stored PTX message segments may be played back at recipient PTX devices once they are ready to do so. Thus in block the originating PTX device may receive a ready signal indicating one or more recipient PTX devices are ready to output the stored PTX message segment s . If a message segment was stored locally in block in block the stored message segment may once again be transmitted. In this way the delayed recipient PTX devices may playback the one or more message segments they missed.

In an embodiment a playback status may be reported to the originating PTX device and or the PTX group members. Thus as delayed recipient PTX devices playback the previously stored PTX message segment a playback status may be provided to the originating PTX device. If a playback status is received i.e. determination block Yes in block that playback status may be displayed on the originating PTX device. As discussed above the playback status may be a simple progress bar an audible indication or even a speech to text translation of at least a portion of the PTX message segment played back. Also the speech to text translation displayed on the originating PTX device may reflect an updated playback status of what portion of the first PTX message segment has not been output from the first recipient PTX device. In an embodiment the originating PTX device may be able to cut off or terminate the playback by transmitting a delete signal as described above with regard to block . Regardless once the playback is concluded or terminated the originating PTX device may in block either relinquish the floor and await PTX group communications from others or continue transmitting one or more PTX message segments thus reverting to block .

In an alternative embodiment the recipient PTX device may attempt to be aware of an ambient noise level of its surroundings in order to compensate for that level of noise. The recipient PTX device may be configured to detect an ambient noise level around the device in response to receiving a floor taken signal or even an actual PTX message segment. Additionally a determination may be made as to whether the ambient noise level is below a quiet threshold. If the ambient noise level is below the quiet threshold a first adjusted output volume may be set. The first adjusted output volume may include a lower volume level than that of a preselected volume level of the device. Alternatively the first adjusted output volume may include an output of the PTX message segment through an earpiece paired to the device. As yet a further alternative a screen text indication and or the use of preselected quiet mode settings for the device may be set. In contrast when the device detects a loud environment i.e. a relatively high level of ambient noise like being at a concert or being in a noisy crowd the device may be configured to further determine whether the ambient noise level is above a loud threshold. If the ambient noise level is above that loud threshold a second adjusted output volume may be set. The second adjusted output volume may include a higher volume level than that of a preselected volume level of the device. Additionally or alternatively the second adjusted output volume may include an output of the PTX message through an earpiece paired to the device a screen text indication the use of preselected loud mode setting for the device and or a buffer request may be transmitted. Other device behaviors can be used to augment or enhance the experience such as playing tones at an appropriate volume or using vibrate when tones would be not advantageous. Thus in block the ambient noise level may be measured or the user may either react to the incoming message by inputting a buffer request or predefined settings on the device may automatically generate such a request. As yet a further alternative the process may skip from block to block without making a buffer request in which case only the PTX message segment output will be adjusted.

A determination may be made in block as to whether message buffering should be initiated from the subject recipient PTX device. The initiation of such buffering may be done after receiving a floor taken signal after receiving a PTX message segment or after the alternative in block relating to an ambient noise measurement or received user input. If it is determine buffering should be initiated i.e. determination block Yes in block a buffer request and or status may be transmitted to the server. Where a buffer status is transmitted a received PTX message segment may be stored in a local memory. In this way the buffer status reflects the condition of or confirms the storage of the PTX message segment. After the buffer request or status is transmitted or if no buffer request was initiated i.e. determination block No a determination may be made as to whether a PTX message segment is received by the recipient PTX device. If no PTX message segment is received i.e. determination block No this may be taken as an acceptance of the buffer request. Thus in block the recipient PTX device may await further PTX communications or initiate its own such as by transmitting a ready signal as discussed below.

If a PTX message segment is received by the recipient PTX device i.e. determination block Yes this may mean no buffer request was made no buffer request is currently active from the subject recipient PTX device i.e. a prior buffer request was withdrawn in order to make it not currently active or potentially that a buffer request was denied revoked. For example after a buffer request or status in initially indicated receipt of the PTX message segment anyway may mean the buffer request was denied or revoked. Thus if the buffer request was denied no buffer request was made or is active i.e. determination block Yes at block the received PTX message segment may be output at the recipient PTX device. Alternatively as noted above with regard to the ambient noise detection in block the output of the recipient PTX device such as the volume or method of output may be adjusted. However if the PTX message segment is output at block without any buffering or substantial delay from when it was transmitted the output at the recipient PTX device is considered live. Thus a live output status may be transmitted in block from the recipient device indicating that recipient device is a live participant in the PTX session.

In an embodiment if a PTX message segment is received by the recipient PTX device i.e. determination block Yes this may alternatively mean the PTX message segment is meant to be stored locally at the recipient PTX device. Thus if a buffer request was made is active and the buffer request was not denied i.e. determination block No this may mean the PTX message segment is meant to be stored locally. If the recipient PTX device is not able to store the message segment locally i.e. determination block No in block it may await further PTX communication or initiate its own. For example the recipient PTX device may in block transmit a signal indicating it is unable to locally store the PTX message segment. If the recipient PTX device is able to store the message segment locally i.e. determination block Yes in block the PTX message segment may be stored in a memory of the recipient PTX device after which it may proceed to block to await further PTX communications or initiate its own.

If one or more PTX message segments were stored locally on the recipient PTX device i.e. determination block Yes before playing it back a determination may be made as to whether a delete signal was received from the originating PTX device. Receipt of a delete signal is an indication the originating PTX device does not want the stored message segment s played back. If a delete signal was received i.e. determination block Yes then the locally stored PTX message segment s may be deleted in block . If the PTX message segment s were not stored locally i.e. determination block No a determination may be made as to whether they were stored remotely. For example the could be stored at the originating PTX device the server or some other resource. If they were not stored remotely i.e. determination block No in block the recipient PTX device may await further PTX communications or initiate its own. If they were stored remotely i.e. determination block Yes a determination is made as to whether the stored PTX message segment is received. If no message is received from the remote storage i.e. determination block No the process may proceed to block to await further PTX communications or initiate its own. If one or more message segments are received i.e. determination block Yes in block the PTX message segment may be output at the recipient PTX device. Similarly if the PTX message segment had been stored locally and not delete signal received i.e. determination block No in block the PTX message segment may be output at the recipient PTX device.

In an embodiment as described above the playback status of buffered message segments may be reported to the server the originating PTX device and optionally the rest of the PTX group. Thus in response to outputting a PTX message segment in block a playback status may be transmitted at least to the server from the outputting recipient PTX device. If the PTX message segment output is not finished i.e. determination block No the recipient PTX device in block may continue to output the PTX message segment and in block report the playback status. Once the PTX message segment is finished outputting i.e. determination block Yes a playback complete signal may be transmitted in block . Thereafter the process may proceed to block to await further PTX communications or initiate its own.

Various embodiments are directed to PTX communication enhancements as compared to conventional PTX services systems and hardware. It should be understood that the present embodiments may be implemented in software such that the user need not push a physical button to talk. In various embodiments the user interface can allow the user to interact with the PTX network by activating icons or in a hands free mode which allows the user to more easily multitask and to utilize the device speakerphone and or earpiece mode in a more natural way.

Various embodiments may implement a more visual experience than is previously employed and may utilize visual feedback cues to the user which may augment or replace the existing audio cues for floor control and mediation. The visual feedback cues may be provided via graphical elements and colors on the display screen of the wireless device. In various embodiments the feedback cues may show the state of a group communication session and individual message segments and may indicate for example control of the floor for group communication. In various embodiments the display screen may display visual features which tell the user when the floor is open when the floor is requested by user s device when the floor controlled by user s device or by a different device when buffer requests have been made when buffering is taking place and the playback status of buffered message segments. In some embodiments the display screen may also display visual representations of the members of the group in the group communication and may further display the participation state s of each member of the group. For example the device may display the members of the group who are currently participating in the group communication session as well as the members of the group delayed and potentially playing back message segments on a delay. These enhanced features may be implemented in software which runs on the user s wireless device and may also be implemented in part in a server.

As a further alternative the recipient device may use sensors to determine the user s condition and selects an appropriate mode. Also that mode may be switched as the users environment changes such as when a bright sun goes behind the clouds in an outdoor environment or if the ambient noise levels around the recipient device changes. illustrate embodiments where the output from PTX devices may be controlled using automated features. illustrates a recipient device UI receiving an incoming video. Similar to that of . illustrates how a sensor such as a microphone may detect that the ambient noise around recipient device is too loud and thus switch to a text output mode which converts the audio component of the communication to text. This aspect may also use a speech to text recognition algorithm to display the converted speech on the UI. illustrates how a further sensor such as a light sensor may be used to detect the ambient brightness. In this way the device may detect that the environment is too bright for the display to be seen and so it may switch to audio mode. Such a switch may also conserve energy for the device. illustrate how an auto detect mode might be used to speed up or slow down the audio or video transmission. shows an example of how a microphone may detect a pause in the user s speech so that the recipient device automatically speeds up the audio and or video transmission. Alternatively if the recipient device falls too far behind the live broadcast such as beyond a predetermined duration the device may automatically speed up or the recipient device to catch up to the live broadcast. shows how the device may slow down the audio and or video transmission upon detecting a lag in the communication stream.

The third display portion in does not include a video segment which is reflected by the video on off switch shown as unavailable. Nonetheless an audio segment from user Jonah is being output from the PTX device simultaneously with the audio complement from user Mark L. . In this way rather than hearing and seeing all the video and audio segments simultaneously a user of a PTX device may elect to watch only select ones of the available videos or only listen to select ones of available audio. In this way the recipient device may selectively display a video stream from one originating device that includes an audio output and display only the video stream from another originating device without the audio output there from.

The embodiments may be implemented in a variety of mobile wireless communication devices particularly mobile computing devices. An example of a wireless communication device that may implement the various embodiments is a Smartphone illustrated in . A wireless communication device such as a Smartphone may include a processor coupled to memory and to a radio frequency data modem . The modem may be coupled to an antenna for receiving and transmitting radio frequency signals. The Smartphone may also include a display such as a touch screen display. The mobile device may also include user input devices such as buttons to receive user inputs or microphones to measure ambient noise levels or receive sounds. In the various embodiments the Smartphone includes a tactile output surface which may be positioned on the display e.g. using E Sense technology on a back surface or another surface of the mobile device . The mobile device processor may be any programmable microprocessor microcomputer or multiple processor chip or chips that can be configured by instructions i.e. applications or more generally software to perform a variety of functions including the functions of the various embodiments described herein. Typically software applications may be stored in the internal memory before they are accessed and loaded into the processor . In some mobile computing devices additional memory chips e.g. a Secure Data SD card may be plugged into the mobile device and coupled to the processor . The internal memory may be a volatile or nonvolatile memory such as flash memory or a mixture of both. For the purposes of this description a general reference to memory refers to all memory accessible by the processor including internal memory removable memory plugged into the mobile device and memory within the processor .

The various embodiments may be implemented on any of a variety of commercially available server devices such as the server illustrated in . Such a server typically includes a processor coupled to volatile memory and a large capacity nonvolatile memory such as a disk drive . The server may also include a floppy disc drive compact disc CD or DVD disc drive coupled to the processor . The server may also include network access ports coupled to the processor for establishing data connections with a network such as a local area network coupled to other broadcast system computers and servers. The processors may be any programmable microprocessor microcomputer or multiple processor chip or chips that can be configured by instructions applications or software to perform a variety of functions including the functions of the various embodiments described above. In some devices multiple processors may be provided such as one processor dedicated to wireless communication functions and one processor dedicated to running other applications. Typically software applications may be stored in the internal memory and before they are accessed and loaded into the processor .

The processor may include internal memory sufficient to store the application instructions. In many devices the internal memory may be a volatile or nonvolatile memory such as flash memory or a mixture of both. For the purposes of this description a general reference to memory refers to memory accessible by the processor including internal memory or removable memory plugged into the device and memory within the processor itself.

The foregoing method descriptions and the process flow diagrams are provided merely as illustrative examples and are not intended to require or imply that the steps of the various embodiments must be performed in the order presented. As will be appreciated by one of skill in the art the order of steps in the foregoing embodiments may be performed in any order. Words such as thereafter then next etc. are not intended to limit the order of the steps these words are simply used to guide the reader through the description of the methods. Further any reference to claim elements in the singular for example using the articles a an or the is not to be construed as limiting the element to the singular.

The various illustrative logical blocks modules circuits and algorithm steps described in connection with the aspects disclosed herein may be implemented as electronic hardware computer software or combinations of both. To clearly illustrate this interchangeability of hardware and software various illustrative components blocks modules circuits and steps have been described above generally in terms of their functionality. Whether such functionality is implemented as hardware or software depends upon the particular application and design constraints imposed on the overall system. Skilled artisans may implement the described functionality in varying ways for each particular application but such implementation decisions should not be interpreted as causing a departure from the scope of the present invention.

The hardware used to implement the various illustrative logics logical blocks modules and circuits described in connection with the aspects disclosed herein may be implemented or performed with a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor may be any conventional processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration. Alternatively some steps or methods may be performed by circuitry that is specific to a given function.

In one or more exemplary aspects the functions described may be implemented in hardware software firmware or any combination thereof. If implemented in software the functions may be stored on as one or more instructions or code on a non transitory computer readable storage medium. The steps of a method or algorithm disclosed herein may be embodied in a processor executable software module which may reside or be stored on a non transitory computer readable storage medium or processor readable medium. Non transitory computer readable and processor readable storage media may be any available media that may be accessed by a computer or processor. By way of example and not limitation such non transitory computer readable media may include RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that may be used to store desired program code in the form of instructions or data structures and that may be accessed by a computer. Disk and disc as used herein includes compact disc CD laser disc optical disc digital versatile disc DVD floppy disk and blu ray disc where disks usually reproduce data magnetically while discs reproduce data optically with lasers. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of non transitory computer readable media. Additionally the operations of a method or algorithm may reside as one or any combination or set of codes and or instructions on a non transitory processor readable medium and or computer readable medium which may be incorporated into a computer program product.

The preceding description of the disclosed aspects is provided to enable any person skilled in the art to make or use the present invention. Various modifications to these aspects will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art and the generic principles defined herein may be applied to other aspects without departing from the scope of the invention. Thus the present invention is not intended to be limited to the aspects shown herein but is to be accorded the widest scope consistent with the principles and novel features disclosed herein.

