---

title: Key code for a conference operation
abstract: Methods, products, apparatuses, and systems may facilitate a conference operation. The conference operation may include conference chaining, conference switching, conference modification, conference announcement, and so on. A collection of authentication data for a plurality of distinct conferences may be performed to chain the conferences. Switching among the distinct conference may be performed in response to a switch key code. The switch key code may include a general key code applicable to each of the conferences and/or a specific key code application to a specific conference.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09462133&OS=09462133&RS=09462133
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 09462133
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150716
---
The present application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 951 796 filed on Jul. 26 2013

Embodiments of the present invention generally relate to key codes for conference operations. More particularly embodiments relate to performing a collection of authentication data for a plurality of distinct conferences to chain the conferences and or performing a switch among the distinct conferences in response to a switch key code.

A conference attendee may be required to dial a conference number multiple times and enter a corresponding access code for each conference which the conference attendee wishes to join. In addition a single command e.g. hold may be unsuitable for switching among more than two conferences such as audio conferences. Accordingly the conference attendee may experience delay and or inconvenience when accessing or switching conferences.

Embodiments may include a method involving performing a collection of authentication data for a plurality of distinct conferences to chain the conferences. The method may include performing a switch among the distinct conferences in response to a switch key code. In addition the switch key code may include one or more of a general key code applicable to each of the conferences and a specific key code applicable to a specific conference.

Embodiments may include a method involving starting to perform a collection of authentication data for a plurality of distinct conferences to chain the conferences in response to an initiation key code wherein the authentication data includes an access code. The method may include performing an identification of one or more of a buffer key code and a mapping key code interspersed with the authentication data wherein the buffer key code includes a general key sequence demarcating the authentication data and wherein the mapping key code includes a key sequence unique for the authentication data. In addition the method may include ending the collection in response to a termination key code. The method may also include performing a switch among the distinct conferences in response to a switch key code wherein the switch key code includes one or more of a general key code applicable to each of the conferences and a specific key code applicable to a specific conference.

The method may include one or more of queuing each access code utilizing one of the queued access codes in response to the general key code to provide access to one of the conferences and mapping the key sequence unique for the authentication data with the specific key code to provide access to the specific conference. The method may include performing one or more of an announcement including information corresponding to the plurality of distinct conferences a modification in response to a modification key code and a link between the switch key code and a physical hotkey of a conference device. In addition the method may include prompting for one or more the initiation key code the authentication data the buffer key code the mapping key code and the termination key code.

Embodiments may include a computer program product having a computer readable storage medium and computer usable code stored on the computer readable storage medium. If executed by a processor the computer usable code may cause a computer to perform a collection of authentication data for a plurality of distinct conferences to chain the conferences. The computer usable code if executed may also cause a computer to perform a switch among the distinct conferences in response to a switch key code. The switch key code may include one or more of a general key code applicable to each of the conferences and a specific key code applicable to a specific conference.

Embodiments may include a computer program product having a computer readable storage medium and computer usable code stored on the computer readable storage medium. If executed by a processor the computer usable code may cause a computer to start to perform a collection of authentication data for a plurality of distinct conferences to chain the conferences in response to an initiation key code wherein the authentication data is to include an access code. The computer usable code if executed may also cause a computer to perform an identification of one or more of a buffer key code and a mapping key code interspersed with the authentication data wherein the buffer key code is to include a general key sequence to demarcate the authentication data and wherein the mapping key code is to include a key sequence unique for the authentication data. The computer usable code if executed may also cause a computer to end the collection in response to a termination key code. The computer usable code if executed may also cause a computer to perform a switch among the distinct conferences in response to a switch key code wherein the switch key code is to include one or more of a general key code applicable to each of the conferences and a specific key code applicable to a specific conference.

The computer usable code if executed may also cause a computer to perform one or more of queuing each access code utilizing one of the queued access codes in response to the general key code to provide access to one of the conferences and mapping the key sequence unique for the authentication data with the specific key code to provide access to the specific conference. The computer usable code if executed may also cause a computer to perform one or more of an announcement including information corresponding to the plurality of distinct conferences a modification in response to a modification key code and a link between the switch key code and a physical hotkey of a conference device. The computer usable code if executed may also cause a computer to prompt for one or more of the initiation key code the authentication data the buffer key code the mapping key code and the termination key code.

As will be appreciated by one skilled in the art aspects of the present invention may be embodied as a system method or computer program product. Accordingly aspects of the present invention may take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment an entirely software embodiment including firmware resident software micro code etc. or an embodiment combining software and hardware aspects that may all generally be referred to herein as a circuit module or system. Furthermore aspects of the present invention may take the form of a computer program product embodied in one or more computer readable medium s having computer readable program code embodied thereon.

Any combination of one or more computer readable medium s may be utilized. The computer readable medium may be a computer readable signal medium or a computer readable storage medium. A computer readable storage medium may be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus or device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. More specific examples a non exhaustive list of the computer readable storage medium would include the following an electrical connection having one or more wires a portable computer diskette a hard disk a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory an optical fiber a portable compact disc read only memory CD ROM an optical storage device a magnetic storage device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. In the context of this document a computer readable storage medium may be any tangible medium that can contain or store a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device.

A computer readable signal medium may include a propagated data signal with computer readable program code embodied therein for example in baseband or as part of a carrier wave. Such a propagated signal may take any of a variety of forms including but not limited to electro magnetic optical or any suitable combination thereof. A computer readable signal medium may be any computer readable medium that is not a computer readable storage medium and that can communicate propagate or transport a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device.

Program code embodied on a computer readable medium may be transmitted using any appropriate medium including but not limited to wireless wireline optical fiber cable RF etc. or any suitable combination of the foregoing.

Computer program code for carrying out operations for aspects of the present invention may be written in any combination of one or more programming languages including an object oriented programming language such as Java Smalltalk C or the like and conventional procedural programming languages such as the C programming language or similar programming languages. The program code may execute entirely on the user s computer partly on the user s computer as a stand alone software package partly on the user s computer and partly on a remote computer or entirely on the remote computer or server. In the latter scenario the remote computer may be connected to the user s computer through any type of network including a local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN or the connection may be made to an external computer for example through the Internet using an Internet Service Provider .

Aspects of the present invention are described below with reference to flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams of methods apparatus systems and computer program products according to embodiments of the invention. It will be understood that each block of the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams and combinations of blocks in the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams can be implemented by computer program instructions. These computer program instructions may be provided to a processor of a general purpose computer special purpose computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a machine such that the instructions which execute via the processor of the computer or other programmable data processing apparatus create means for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable medium that can direct a computer other programmable data processing apparatus or other devices to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer readable medium produce an article of manufacture including instructions which implement the function act specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer other programmable data processing apparatus or other devices to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer other programmable apparatus or other devices to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide processes for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

When a conference attendee wishes to attend more than one conference it may be valuable allow the attendee to dial a single conference number and enter a corresponding access code for each conference which the attendee wishes to join. In addition it may be valuable to provide a relatively simple mechanism to switch between two or more conferences such as a key code. Moreover it may be valuable to provide a single key code which is suitable for switching among more than two audio conferences. It may be valuable for the key code to include a general key code applicable to each of the conferences such as a single key code e.g. a general hotkey which may be utilized to transfer from one conference to a next succeeding conference in a chain of conferences transfer to a conference spaced at a predetermined distance in the chain of conferences from a current conference to cycle among conferences in the chain of conferences and so on or combinations thereof. It may also be valuable for the key code to include a specific key code applicable to a specific conference in the chain of conferences such as a single unique key code e.g. a specific hotkey which may be utilized to switch from one conference to the specific conference in the chain of conferences.

Referring now to a scheme is shown to chain a plurality of conferences according to an embodiment. Each of the conferences may include a variety of functionality such as audio functionality video functionality text functionality e.g. Short Message Service instant message IM text functionality and so on or combinations thereof. In addition each of the conferences may be hosted by a conference service which may include any entity e.g. any apparatus operable to facilitate communication between two or more parties e.g. attendees participating in a conference. The client service may provide communication between the parties using any communication protocol. In one example the conference service may provide communication using H.323 Real Time Transfer Protocol RTP Session Initiation Protocol SIP Real Time Streaming Protocol RTSP Signaling System No. 7 SS7 CCSS7 CCITT7 CCIS7 N7 and so on or combinations thereof. Accordingly the conference service may host a teleconference a video conference a web conference a voice over internet protocol VoIP conference and so on or combinations thereof.

In the illustrated example the conference service includes a conference controller such as a server an application a plug in e.g. via an application programming interface API and so on or combinations thereof. It should be understood that the conference controller may include a conference controller user interface e.g. a command line interface a graphical user interface GUI a hardwired keypad interface etc. which may be utilized to access one or more configurable settings to facilitate a conference operation. The settings may include options for a communication protocol e.g. RTP etc. switching conferences e.g. switch key codes etc. chaining conferences e.g. buffer key code mapping key code etc. prompting e.g. prompting for data key codes etc. data collection e.g. authentication data to queue etc. performing operations e.g. transfer operation toggle operation modification operation etc. making announcements e.g. announcing conference title conference subject etc. and so on or combinations thereof.

The attendee may access the plurality of conferences via a user interface . The user interface may include any interface such as a command line interface a graphical user interface GUI a hardwired keypad interface and so on or combinations thereof. It should be understood that the user interface may include the same and or similar functionality as the conference controller user interface described above. The user interface may include for example a conference device such as a teleconferencing device e.g. a public switched telephone network PSTN telephone a VoIP device e.g. a VoIP telephone a SIP device e.g. a SIP telephone a personal computer e.g. a tablet a notebook etc. a mobile device e.g. a smart phone a web terminal e.g. a device including a web browser a video conferencing terminal e.g. a device including a camera an application a plug in e.g. via an API and so on or combinations thereof. The conference controller may in one example perform a link between a physical hotkey of a conference device and any desired key code described below.

The attendee may access the plurality of conferences via the user interface . For example the attendee may utilize the user interface to establish and or maintain a connection with the conference service over a communication channel such as a transmission control protocol TCP channel a user datagram protocol UDP channel a PSTN channel and so on or combinations thereof. In one example the attendee may utilize the user interface to access the plurality of conferences by dialing a single conference number e.g. a single 800 number to establish a connection with the conference service and by entering a corresponding access code e.g. a pin number a bridge number etc. for each conference which the attendee wishes to join. In the illustrated example the conference service and the interface establish and or maintain a connection using communication data which may include a TCP SYNC a TCP ACK an UDP ACK a dual tone multi frequency DTMF number and so on or combinations thereof.

The conference controller issues a prompt to the user interface when the connection is established in the illustrated example. As described below a prompt may include a dialog having instructions to prompt for a key code. It should be understood that a prompt such as the prompt is optional and that a key code may be input from the user interface independently of any prompt. In the illustrated example the prompt causes the user interface to return an initiation key code which may include a key sequence of one or more keys e.g. etc. . In one example the attendee may enter the initiation key code by inputting the key sequence of the key code at the user interface . The initiation key code may cause the conference controller to start a collection of authentication data for the plurality of distinct conferences to chain the conferences. The authentication data may include for example an access code such as a pin number a bridge number a password and so on or combinations thereof. In the illustrated example the initiation key code causes the conference controller to issue a prompt which causes the user interface to return data .

The data may include authentication data for the plurality of distinct conferences interspersed with a buffer key code and or a mapping key code. The conference controller may perform an identification of authentication data the buffer key code and or the mapping key code from the data . In one example the conference controller may identify preset authentication data in the data consistencies and or inconsistencies in the data with respect to a configuration of authentication data a preset buffer key code a preset mapping key code and so on or combinations thereof. For example the buffer key code e.g. may be inconsistent with respect to the configuration e.g. number type etc. of authentication data e.g. an access code of four numbers preset e.g. preset as and so on or combinations thereof. The buffer key code may include a general key sequence to demarcate the authentication data for example to facilitate an identification of the beginning and or the end of the authentication data. Accordingly the key sequence of the buffer key code may be considered general since the key sequence may not be unique for specific authentication data. In one example the buffer key code may reside in between each input of authentication data e.g. to demarcate the authentication data.

The mapping key code may also be inconsistent e.g. number type etc. with respect to the configuration of authentication data e.g. an access code . The mapping key code may include a key sequence e.g. unique for authentication data e.g. the access code . Accordingly the key sequence of the mapping key code may be considered specific since the key sequence may be unique for specific authentication data. In one example the mapping key code may be preset e.g. preset as for a first conference associated with the access code preset as for a second conference associated with an access code etc. dynamically set e.g. set in real time using any desired key sequence inconsistent with authentication data and so on or combinations thereof. The conference controller may also for example map the key sequence unique for the authentication data e.g. with a specific key code which may include a key sequence at least partially overlapping e.g. with the key sequence of the mapping key code e.g. . As described below the specific key code may be used as a shortcut key to access a specific conference without disengaging the conference service.

In the illustrated example the prompt also causes the user interface to return a termination key code which may include a key sequence of one or more keys e.g. . In one example the attendee may enter the termination key code by inputting the key sequence of the termination key code at the user interface . The termination key code may cause the conference controller to end the collection of authentication data from the data . As a result the plurality of distinct conferences whose authentication data is collected may be chained in a chain of conferences. In addition the authentication data may be queued. For example the access code may be queued when the buffer key code is input and or encountered during the collection of the authentication data and may remain queued with the access code when the collection of the authentication data has ended.

In the illustrated example the conference service exchanges current conference data with the interface when the conference controller causes the attendee to be placed in a conference a current conference . The current conference data may include any data for the current conference such as audio data video data text data and so on or combinations thereof. At least a part of the conference data may be filtered at any time for example by muting audio and or blocking video at any time using the conference controller the user interface and so on or combinations thereof. The current conference may be automatically and or manually selected based on any criteria such as the authentication data first input and or encountered authentication data first enqueued a user preference e.g. rating information thumbs up etc. for a conference a conference start time a conference end time a user selection and so on or combinations thereof. In one example authentication data e.g. the access code enqueued first may be dequeued and utilized when the collection has ended to automatically place the attendee in the current conference while other authentication data e.g. the access code collected may remain queued.

The switch key code may include one or more of a general key code applicable to each of the conferences and a specific key code applicable to a specific conference. In one example the switch key code may include a general key sequence of one or more keys e.g. a general hotkey applicable to each of the conferences. Accordingly a single general key sequence e.g. may cause the conference controller to perform a conference operation such as switching from the current conference e.g. the conference associated with the access code to another conference e.g. the conference associated with the queued conference code . The conference operation e.g. a switch operation may include a transfer from the current conference to a next succeeding conference in the chain of conferences when the current conference has ended a transfer to one other conference spaced at a predetermined distance in the chain of conferences from the current conference when the current conference has ended e.g. a forward move by one conference a backward move by two conferences etc. a cycle among conferences in the chain of conferences at any time e.g. forward move at any time backward move at any time etc. and so on or combinations thereof.

In addition a plurality of general key sequences may be employed to cause a plurality of conference operations. In one example a general key code may be used in a switch operation to transfer access from the current conference to a next succeeding conference in the chain of conferences when the current conference has ended while a general key code may be used in a switch operation to cycle among conferences in the chain of conferences at any time. Accordingly the conference operation may be implemented using the general key code without disengaging the conference service without disengaging the conference controller without requiring redialing a conference number without reentering authentication data and so on or combinations thereof.

In another example the switch key code may include a specific key code applicable to a specific conference in the chain of conferences. For example the switch key code may include a single unique key sequence e.g. a specific hotkey which may be utilized in a switch operation to toggle from a current conference e.g. a conference associated with the access code to a specific other conference in the chain of conferences e.g. a conference associated with the access code . The switch key code may also include a single unique key sequence e.g. a specific hotkey which may be utilized in a switch operation to toggle from a current conference e.g. the conference associated with the access code to another specific conference in the chain of conferences e.g. the conference associated with the access code . In a further example the single unique key sequence e.g. the specific hotkey may be utilized in a switch operation to toggle from a current conference e.g. the conference associated with the access code to a specific conference in the chain of conferences e.g. the conference associated with the access code .

To minimize confusion the unique key sequence of the switch key code may at least partially overlap with the key sequence of the mapping key code. For example the unique key sequence may be utilized to provide access to the specific conference associated with the access code which may partially overlap with the mapping key code while the unique key sequence may be utilized to provide access to the specific conference associated with the access code which may partially overlap with the mapping key code . Accordingly the conference operation may be implemented using the specific key code without disengaging the conference service without disengaging the conference controller without redialing a conference number without reentering authentication data and so on or combinations thereof. In the illustrated example the conference controller identifies the switch key code and or performs one or more switch operations to provide access to one or more other conferences in the chain of conferences.

The conference service exchanges conference data with the user interface for the newly accessed conference which may include audio data video data text data and so on or combinations thereof. At least a part of the conference data may be filtered at any time for example by muting audio and or blocking video at any time using the conference controller the user interface and so on or combinations thereof. Accordingly the newly accessed conference may be treated as the current conference by the conference controller for the purpose of handling a subsequent conference operation.

The conference controller may make perform an announcement including information corresponding to the plurality of distinct conferences. In one example the announcement may be performed at any time such as when the attendee is placed into the current conference when the conference controller performs a conference operation e.g. a switch operation in response to a key code from the user interface e.g. an announcement key code which may be entered by the attendee not shown and so on or combinations thereof. The information may include any data to identify the current conference such as the conference title the conference subject the conference agenda the location of the conference in the agenda and so on or combinations thereof. Participant information may also be included such as the identity of arriving attendees the identity of the conference chair the identity of an organization sponsoring the conference and so on or combinations thereof.

The information in the announcement may include any data type such as audio data video data text data and so on or combinations thereof. At least a part of the information may be filtered at any time for example by muting audio and or blocking text at any time using the conference controller the user interface and so on or combinations thereof. Accordingly the attendee may become aware of and or be able to confirm the identity of current conference to determine if the attendee wishes to participate in the current conference to remain in the current conference and so on or combinations thereof. In the illustrated example the conference controller issues conference information to the user interface which includes one or more of the title of the conference and the subject of the current conference when the attendee is placed in the current conference as a result of the switch operation by the conference controller .

The conference controller may also perform a modification to the chain of conferences in response to a modification key code . In the illustrated example the user interface issues the modification key code to the conference controller which may be entered by the attendee by inputting the key sequence of the modification key code at the user interface . The modification key code may be issued at any time such as during the collection of the authentication data after the collection of the authentication data and so on or combinations thereof. The modification key code may cause the conference controller to add a conference to the chain of conferences to delete a conference in the chain of conferences to reorder the conferences e.g. each of the conferences a subset etc. in the chain of conferences and so on or combinations thereof.

In one example the conference controller may prompt for data corresponding to a modifying conference e.g. a conference to be added deleted reordered etc. to perform the modification may receive the data corresponding to the modifying conference automatically and so on or combinations thereof. The conference controller may utilize a sequence number and or a specific key code of the modifying conference to identify a conference to add to delete to reorder and so on or combinations thereof. The conference controller may delete and or reorder the current conference e.g. the conference in which the attendee is placed automatically when the modification key code is input and or encountered. The conference controller may utilize authentication data e.g. new authentication data for a new conference prior authentication data for a conference in the chain of conferences etc. to identify a conference to add to delete to reorder and so on or combinations thereof.

Turning now to an example of a dialog including instructions to is shown to prompt for a key code according to an embodiment. The information included in the dialog may include any data type such as audio data video data text data and so on or combinations thereof. In the illustrated example of the dialog includes the instruction which prompts for an access code to immediately place the attendee in a conference and or an initiation key code to chain a plurality of distinct conferences. The instruction prompts for authentication data e.g. a pin number a bridge number etc. interspersed with a buffer key code . The instruction also prompts for a termination key code . In one example the attendee may enter the initiation key code the authentication data the buffer key code and or the termination key code at a user interface such as teleconferencing device. Accordingly a collection of the authentication data for the plurality of distinct conferences may be performed to chain the conferences. The instruction may instruct the attendee for a general transfer operation such as when the attendee wishes to transfer from a current conference to one other conference when the current conference ends. In one example a general key code may be utilized to switch to a next succeeding conference when the current conference ends without the need to disconnect form the conference service.

In the illustrated example of the dialog includes the instruction which prompts for an initiation key code . The instruction prompts for authentication data e.g. a pin number a bridge number etc. interspersed with the buffer key code . The instruction also prompts for a termination key code . In one example the attendee may enter the initiation key code the authentication data the buffer key code and or the termination key code at the user interface such as the teleconferencing device. Accordingly a collection of the authentication data for the plurality of distinct conferences may be performed to chain the conferences. The instruction may instruct the attendee for a toggle operation such as when the attendee wishes to toggle from a current conference to another conference at any time. For example the general toggle operation may cycle among conferences which are spaced at predetermined distance. In one example a general key code may be utilized to move forward one conference in the chain of conferences at any time without the need to disconnect form the conference service.

In the illustrated example of the dialog includes the instruction which prompts for an initiation key code . The instruction prompts for authentication data e.g. a pin number a bridge number etc. interspersed with the buffer key code . The instruction also prompts for a termination key code . In one example the attendee may enter the initiation key code the authentication data the buffer key code and or the termination key code at the user interface such as the teleconferencing device. Accordingly a collection of the authentication data for the plurality of distinct conferences may be performed to chain the conferences. The instruction may prompt the attendee for a general transfer operation and or a general toggle operation. In one example a general key code may be utilized to switch to a next succeeding conference when the current conference ends without the need to disconnect form the conference service while the general key code may be utilized to move forward one conference in the chain of conferences at any time without the need to disconnect form the conference service.

In the illustrated example of the dialog includes the instruction which prompts for an initiation key code . The instruction prompts for authentication data e.g. a pin number a bridge number etc. interspersed with a mapping key code such as etc. which may be preset e.g. provided by the conference service and or dynamically set e.g. set in real time by the attendee identified and stored by a conference controller . The instruction also prompts for a termination key code . In one example the attendee may enter the initiation key code the authentication data the mapping key codes etc. and or the termination key code at the user interface such as the teleconferencing device. Accordingly a collection of the authentication data for the plurality of distinct conferences may be performed to chain the conferences. The instruction may instruct the attendee for a specific toggle operation such as when the attendee wishes to transfer from a current conference to another specific conference at any time.

In one example a specific key code may be utilized to switch to a specific conference e.g. the first conference corresponding to authentication data associated with the mapping key code a specific key code may be utilized to switch to a specific conference e.g. the second conference corresponding to authentication data associated with the mapping key code and so on or combinations thereof. In addition when the attendee is placed on hold until the current conference begins information corresponding to the current conference may be announced to the attendee such as the conference title the conference subject and so on or combinations thereof.

Further instructions may be provided at any time and or for any conference operation. For example an instruction may be provided for access to a general menu e.g. a menu including each conference operation a specific menu e.g. to determine the sequence number of the current conference for to modify the chain of conferences at any time and so on or combinations thereof. For example an instruction may appear between the instruction and the instruction to recite Enter to enter a general menu at any time. Enter to access a modification menu at any time. Enter to delete the current conference at any time. Enter conference sequence number to delete the conference located at the sequence position at any time. Enter access code mapping key code to add a new conference at any time. Enter conference sequence number to shift the conference located at the sequence position back one position in the chain of conferences at any time. It should be understood that any instruction may be predetermined modifiable provided to the attendee over a communication channel via audio text video and so on or combinations thereof.

In the illustrated example the conference controller includes key code logic . The illustrated key code logic includes initiation key code logic termination key code logic buffer key code logic mapping key code logic switch key code logic and modification key code logic to identify an initiation key code a termination key code a buffer key code a mapping key code a switch key code and a modification key code respectively. The illustrated key code logic also includes map key logic to map a key sequence unique for authentication data e.g. a key sequence of a mapping key code with a specific key code e.g. a key sequence of a switch key code . The illustrated map key logic may further map any key code e.g. a switch key code with a physical hotkey of a conference device such as a SIP telephone.

The illustrated conference controller logic includes prompt logic . The illustrated prompt logic may provide a dialog which may include an instruction including any data type such as audio data video data text data and so on or combinations thereof. In one example the instruction may prompt for a key code such as the initiation key code the termination key code the buffer key code the mapping key code the switch key code the modification key code and so on or combinations thereof. The instruction may prompt for any other key code such as an announcement key code e.g. to provide announcement information a modification key code e.g. to add a conference a menu key code e.g. to provide a general menu a specific menu etc. a mute key code e.g. to mute audio video and so on or combinations thereof. In the illustrated example key code logic may recommend one more key codes to the prompt logic to be used in the dialog. For example the key code logic may recommend the initiation key code to be used by the prompt logic to prompt for the recommended initiation key code. The recommendation may be based on any criteria such as available key codes preferences preset values and so on or combinations thereof.

The illustrated conference controller logic includes collection logic . The illustrated collection logic may identify authentication data such as an access code. For example the collection logic may identify access codes which are consistent with the configuration of authentication data e.g. a four digit number . The illustrated collection logic may also maintain a collection of the authentication data for the plurality of distinct conferences to chain the conferences. In one example the collection logic may queue the authentication data. In addition the key code logic may identify one or more key codes and notify the collection logic . For example the initiation key code logic may identify the initiation key code and notify the collection logic which may cause the collection logic to start collecting the authentication data. The buffer key code logic may identify the buffer key code and notify to the collection logic which may facilitate identifying the start and or the end of the authentication data by the collection logic . The mapping key code logic may identify the mapping key code notify the map key logic to map the mapping key code and or notify the collection logic which may facilitate identifying the start and or the end of the authentication data by the collection logic . The termination key code logic may identify the termination key code and notify the collection logic which may cause the collection logic to end the collection of the authentication data.

The illustrated conference controller logic includes operation logic . The illustrated operation logic includes transfer logic which may perform a switch operation to transfer access from the current conference to a next succeeding conference in the chain of conferences when the current conference has ended to transfer access to a conference spaced at a predetermined distance in the chain of conferences from the current conference when the current conference has ended and so on or combinations thereof. The illustrated operation logic also includes toggle logic which may perform a switch operation to cycle among conferences in the chain of conferences at any time. In one example the toggle logic may implement a general toggle operation which may involve moving a predetermined distance in the chain of conferences from the current conference e.g. a forward move by one conference a backward move by two conferences etc. . In another example the toggle logic may implement a specific toggle operation which may involve moving from the current conference to a specific conference in the chain of conferences.

The illustrated operation logic also includes modification logic which may perform a modification operation for the chain of conferences. In one example the modification logic may add a conference to the chain of conferences delete a conference in the chain of conferences reorder the conferences e.g. each of the conferences a subset etc. in the chain of conferences and so on or combinations thereof. The modification logic may utilize data corresponding to a modifying conference e.g. a conference to be added to perform the modification for example by using a sequence number and or a specific key code for the modifying conference. The modification logic may delete and or reorder the current conference automatically for example on encountering the modification key code. The modification logic may utilize authentication data e.g. new authentication data for a new conference prior authentication data for a conference in the chain of conferences etc. to identify a conference to add to delete to reorder and so on or combinations thereof.

In the illustrated example the key code logic may identify one or more key codes and notify the operation logic . In one example the switch key code logic may identify a switch key code including a generic key code and notify the operation logic which may cause the transfer logic to implement the generic transfer operation. In another example the switch key code logic may identify a switch key code including a generic key code and notify the operation logic which may cause the toggle logic to implement the generic toggle operation. The switch key code logic may also identify a switch key code including the specific key code and notify the operation logic which may cause the toggle logic to implement the specific toggle operation. Moreover the modification key code logic may identify a modification key code and notify the operation logic which may cause the modification logic to implement the modification operation e.g. add a conference delete a conference reorder a conference etc. .

The illustrated conference controller logic includes announcement logic . The illustrated announcement logic may perform an announcement to provide information corresponding to the current conference. In one example the information may include the title of the current conference the subject of the current conference and so on or combinations thereof. It should be understood that the conference controller logic may include any logic to identify recommend and or perform a notification for any key code such as an announcement key code a menu key code and so on or combinations thereof. Accordingly for example the key code logic may identify an announcement key code and notify the announcement logic which may cause the announcement logic to announce the information corresponding to the current conference.

The illustrated conference service includes access logic to provide access to a conference in the chain of conferences. The illustrated access logic includes host logic to host each of the conferences in the chain of conferences. In one example the host logic may establish and or maintain a connection with one or more user interfaces. For example a conference attendee may utilize a respective user interface to establish and or maintain a connection with the host logic over a communication channel such as a TCP channel a UDP channel a PSTN channel and so on or combinations thereof. The access logic may respond to data and or a control signal from the collection logic the operation logic and so on or combinations thereof. For example the authentication data enqueued first may be initially dequeued in a first in first out FIFO manner to cause the access logic to provide access to the conference associated with the authentication data enqueued first. In another example the authentication data enqueued second may be utilized to cause the access logic to provide access to the conference associated with the authentication data enqueued second when the operation logic performs a switch operation via the toggle logic .

Illustrated processing block provides for performing a switch among the distinct conferences in response to a switch key code. In one example the switch key code may include a general key code applicable to each of the conferences. In another example the switch key code may include a specific key code applicable to a specific conference. Thus performing the switch among the distinct conferences at the block may correspond to for example the switch among the distinct conferences e.g. to already discussed.

Illustrated processing block provides for queuing authentication data for example queuing each access code and or utilizing one of the queued authentication data e.g. one of the queued access codes to provide access to one of the conferences. In one example one of the queued access codes may be utilized in response to a general key code. Thus queuing the authentication data and or utilizing one of the queued authentication data at the block may correspond to for example the queuing and or the utilization e.g. to already discussed. Illustrated processing block provides for mapping the key sequence unique for the authentication data with the specific key code to provide access to the specific conference. Thus the mapping at the block may correspond to for example the mapping e.g. to already discussed.

Illustrated processing block provides for performing one or more of an announcement a modification and or a link. In one example the announcement may include information corresponding to the plurality of distinct conferences such as a conference title and or a conference subject. The modification may occur in response to a modification key code. The modification may include one or more of an addition of a conference a deletion of a conference a reordering of a conference and so on or combinations thereof. The link may and be performed between a key code e.g. the switch key code and a physical hotkey of a conference device such as a VoIP phone. Thus performing one or more of the announcement the modification and the linking at the block may correspond to for example the announcement the modification and the linking e.g. to already discussed.

Illustrated processing block provides for prompting for the authentication data and or one or more key codes. In one example the one or more key codes may include an initiation key code a buffer key code a mapping key code a termination key code a switch key code an announcement key code a modification key code a menu key code and so on or combinations thereof. Thus prompting for the authentication data and or one or more of the key codes at the block may correspond to for example prompting for the authentication data and or one or more of the key codes e.g. to already discussed.

The flowchart and block diagrams in the Figures illustrate the architecture functionality and operation of possible implementations of systems methods and computer program products according to various embodiments of the present invention. In this regard each block in the flowchart or block diagrams may represent a module segment or portion of code which comprises one or more executable instructions for implementing the specified logical function s . It should also be noted that in some alternative implementations the functions noted in the block may occur out of the order noted in the figures. For example two blocks shown in succession may in fact be executed substantially concurrently or the blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order depending upon the functionality involved. It will also be noted that each block of the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration and combinations of blocks in the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration can be implemented by special purpose hardware based systems that perform the specified functions or acts or combinations of special purpose hardware and computer instructions. In addition the terms first second etc. may be used herein only to facilitate discussion and carry no particular temporal or chronological significance unless otherwise indicated.

Those skilled in the art will appreciate from the foregoing description that the broad techniques of the embodiments of the present invention can be implemented in a variety of forms. Therefore while the embodiments of this invention have been described in connection with particular examples thereof the true scope of the embodiments of the invention should not be so limited since other modifications will become apparent to the skilled practitioner upon a study of the drawings specification and following claims.

