---

title: Method and system for setting quality of service in a communication system
abstract: A method and apparatus for determining a Quality of Service (QoS) level in a mobile communication system comprises an access gateway. The access gateway receives an indication of a change of an active talk group of a first communication device operating on a first network. The access gateway formulates a QoS modification request message to forward to a second network. The message requests modification of the QoS for a second communication device that is receiving broadband service from the second network. The second communication device belongs to the same user as the first communication device. An interface between the network entity and the second network provides the QoS modification request message to the second network. The first communication device may be a portable or mobile radio, and the second communication device may be an LTE communication device. The first network may be a Land Mobile Radio system.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09510243&OS=09510243&RS=09510243
owner: MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS, INC.
number: 09510243
owner_city: Chicago
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20151120
---
The present disclosure relates generally to communication systems and more particularly to setting Quality of Service QoS .

In public safety systems it is crucial to provide resources to public safety responders currently involved in or about to be involved in an important event. Such an event may be an emergency incident which may occur in urban or rural environments. In case of system congestion when there may not be enough resources to satisfy all the needs of the public safety responders systems have to choose who should be granted access to valuable resources and who should have access denied. Such decisions should preferably be made quickly.

In today s public safety environment there may be a number of devices that are related to a particular public safety user. Such a public safety user may carry a land mobile radio LMR and for example one or more broadband devices. One or more of these devices may be connected to different access networks using the same or different radio technologies.

In broadband LTE systems control over network access and utilization of radio resources is achieved by setting particular Quality of Service QoS parameters. By setting particular QoS parameters the system can for example provide particular Guaranteed Bitrates GBR prioritize service usage and or allow potential pre emption using Allocation and Retention Priority ARP .

There remains a need for an effective way to set QoS for one or more bearers allocated to one or more devices that are related to a particular public safety user involved in an important event. Furthermore current technique tend to require a large amount of infrastructure to determine whether public safety responders should have access to or be denied access to these valuable resources.

Accordingly there is a need for at least a method and system for coordinating the setting of QoS for one or more bearers for a set of communication devices related to a user.

Skilled artisans will appreciate that elements in the figures are illustrated for simplicity and clarity and have not necessarily been drawn to scale. For example the dimensions of some of the elements in the figures may be exaggerated relative to other elements to help to improve understanding of embodiments of the present invention.

The apparatus and method components have been represented where appropriate by conventional symbols in the drawings showing only those specific details that are pertinent to understanding the embodiments of the present invention so as not to obscure the disclosure with details that will be readily apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art having the benefit of the description herein.

A network entity for determining a Quality of Service QoS level in a mobile communication system is provided. The network entity comprises an access gateway configured to receive an indication of a change of a talk group from a first communication device operating on a first network and determine a second communication device associated with the first communication device the second communication device operating on a second network. The access gateway is further configured to operate a QoS calculation function to determine a QoS modification based on the received indication and to formulate a QoS modification request message. The network entity also comprises an interface between the network entity and the second network. The interface is configured to provide the QoS modification request message to the second network in order to allow the second network to adjust the QoS level of the second communication device.

Referring to a wireless communication system is shown in outline in accordance with an example embodiment of the invention. The embodiment of gives a brief overview of an application function of an embodiment.

In this example the wireless communication system comprises a first network and a second network . The first network and the second network may be different network types. Here the network type means the type of radio access technology or in other words the wireless access technology implemented to enable a communications device to access the network. Each of the first network and the second network can be of one network type or a combination of different network types for example different types of cellular networks 4G networks 3G networks broadband networks or narrowband networks.

For illustrative purposes the first network in this example is a narrowband network for example an LMR Land Mobile Radio or Project network. Second network is a broadband 4G network for example WiMAX or LTE. Two different communication devices such as a first communication device and a second communication device may be associated with one user. First communication device is operable on first network . Second communication device is operable on second network . In other embodiments the first communication device and the second communication device may form different access technology portions of a single multifunctional device assigned to the user.

In some embodiments a user may be associated with a first communication device and more than one second communication device operable on second network . In this case where the functionality of the first network and second network are described below this functionality may be repeated for each second communication device that is associated with first communication device .

The first network comprises a core network and a radio access network RAN . RAN is illustrated generally by the coverage area around an LMR station . For example RAN may comprise at least one LMR station controlled via an LMR network zone controller within the core network . In some examples the LMR network zone controller may receive instructions from a public safety agency not shown which may be outside or within the core network . The functionality of first network is described with respect to first communication device but these functions may also apply to some or all of other communication devices operable in first network . The first communication device and other communication devices and operable on the first network may be LMRS land mobile radio system devices.

The LMR station may allow the first communication device to receive and transmit voice information from to the other communication devices and within the coverage area of the LMR station via wireless communication link for example. Communication device for example may itself be associated with a communication device operable on second network .

An Application Function which is described in detail later is illustrated as part of core network . However the Application Function may be located elsewhere within first network or within second network . Alternatively the Application Function may be located separately from both first network and second network .

Second network may additionally comprise a second core network and a second RAN . Second RAN is illustrated generally by the coverage area around eNodeB which functions as a base station.

Second core network may comprise a packet data network gateway P GW . In order to serve up local content the P GW may be coupled to a content provider . The P GW may be further coupled to a policy control and rules function entity PCRF and a gateway . Second communication device operates within second RAN . The functionality of second network is described with respect to second communication device but these functions may also apply to some or all of other communication devices operable in second network .

PCRF is operable to control policy control decision making. PCRF is also operable to control flow based charging functionalities in a policy control enforcement function PCEF not shown which may reside in the P GW . PCRF further provides a Quality of Service QoS authorization class identifier and bit rate information that dictates how a certain data flow will be treated in the PCEF and ensures that this is in accordance with a subscription profile of second communication device .

In this example the gateway is a Serving Gateway S GW which is coupled to a mobility management entity MME . The MME is operable to manage session control of Gateway bearers and is operably coupled to a home subscriber server HSS database . HSS database is arranged to store information about the subscriber of second communication device . MME also has direct connection to eNodeB .

HSS database may store communication device subscription data such as QoS profiles and any access restrictions for roaming HSS database may also store information relating to the P GW to which second communication device can connect. In addition HSS database may hold dynamic information relating to the identity of the MME to which a second communication device is currently connected or registered.

The MME may be further operable to control protocols running between second communication device and second core network . The MME supports functions relating to bearer management such as the establishment maintenance and release of bearers.

The gateway acts as a mobility anchor point and is capable of providing internet protocol IP multicast distribution of user plane data to eNodeB . The gateway may receive content via the P GW from one or more content providers . The MME may be further coupled to an evolved serving mobile location center E SMLC and a gateway mobile location center GMLC . GMLC contains functionalities required to support location services.

The PCEF of P GW is operable to determine QoS enforcement and flow based charging according to rules received from the PCRF . The P GW is further operable to control the filtering of downlink user IP packets into different QoS based bearers not shown .

As illustrated in second core network is operably coupled to eNodeB which provides a coverage zone for second RAN . The eNodeB performs base station functions and a wireless communication system will typically have many eNodeBs. The eNodeB controls and manages the radio resource related functions of second communication device .

First communication device may be any type of device that can provide functionality related to use with a talk group such as a two way radio. Second communication device may be any type of communication device such as a mobile phone mobile data terminal personal digital assistant laptop cell phone etc.

First network and second network provide a system for coordinating the setting of QoS for one or more bearers for a set of communication devices when a first communication device and a second communication device are associated with a user. The result may be a simpler determination than that made by current systems as to whether a user should be allocated resources for one or more bearers for a set of associated communication devices. An application function of core network allows the setting of QoS for one or more bearers for the second communication device or other communication devices operable on the second network when the second communication device is associated with the same user as the first communication device . The application function is explained in more detail in connection with . In some examples the application function may be separate from the core network . In some other examples the application function may be situated within the core network . Application function may be implemented on top of the standard LTE functionality within the core network .

LMR gateway is operable to receive information from the LMR station via the LMR network zone controller relating to first communication device and other communication devices operable in the first network . The received information may relate to an indication of a change of a talk group of first communication device . The indication of a change of talk group may relate to a change from a current talk group. Alternatively a user may have just enabled i.e. switched on first communication device . In this case the indication of a change of talk group will relate to an initial talk group.

LMR gateway identifies relevant devices in the second network by using information from first database before passing the processed information onto a QoS calculation function which is explained in greater detail in relation to . The QoS calculation function uses the information to determine from second database a suitable QoS calculation method. Second database comprises a number of possible QoS calculation methods. The QoS calculation function then passes information and QoS parameters onto an LTE QoS enforcement function . The LTE QoS enforcement function may then transmit a message to the PCRF within the second core network . The message may comprise service data flows SDFs relating to new SDF establishment modification of existing SDFs and termination of SDFs within the second core network .

In some other examples the application function may be situated within the second core network for example implemented on top of the standard LTE functionality within the second core network .

In summary the application function uses an indication of a change of talk group of first communication device to implement a change in the services provided to associated second communication device .

In one example first communication device may be a mission critical LMRS device assigned to a first talk group and used for voice communication. Subsequently the user of the first communication device may change the user s talk group. In this case the user may change from the first talk group to a second talk group. The user may wish to do this when the user decides to join or is assigned to an event requiring participation in a new talk group. The user may simply switch to the second talk group by utilizing functionality on the first communication device . In other examples the user may utilize a scan list feature on the first communication device to listen to talk groups on the scan list in addition to his main first talk group and select a relevant talk group from this list. In some other examples first communication device may have been recently switched on and therefore may not have initially been assigned a current talk group. As a result the indication of a change of talk group may not be from a current talk group to a second talk group but rather commencement with an initial talk group.

The second communication device may already be attached and authenticated to the second network via eNodeB . The application function may therefore be aware of the attached communication device utilizing standard SDF establishment modification etc. as per current 3GPP standards. One exemplary method for the application function to become aware of a user s associated second communication device is for dedicated software on the second communication device to inform proactively the application function AF. In a second exemplary method application function may subscribe in the PCRF for events. Such events may indicate the fact that the second communication device has attached to the second core network for example that an SDF was created or PCC rules were activated.

The LMR gateway may subsequently determine the current talk group of the first communication device in this example the second talk group and pass this information to first database . The LMR gateway may obtain and map the inter RF subsystem interface ISSI of first communication device in first database in order to obtain international mobile subscriber identity IMSI information for associated second communication device . When the user s associated second communication device has previously attached to and been authenticated by the second network the first database within the application function is aware of it. First database is therefore able to identify the associated second communication device using the ISSI of the first communication device .

Subsequently the LMR gateway may output the details of the currently selected talk group of the first communication device with details of associated IMSI s of associated second communication device s to the QoS calculation function . Subsequently the QoS calculation function may select a relevant QoS calculation method based on the received information relating to current talk group and IMSI information. For the associated second communication device the QoS calculation function sends QoS modification requests to the PCRF within the second core network of the second network . As discussed above the application function may be separate to or integrated within second core network of second network .

The PCRF may subsequently calculate QoS parameters for the bearers of the associated second communication device and modify the QoS rules for the second communication device . Further QoS for data links established for each affected communication device operable on second network may be updated accordingly. Therefore in some examples a communication device that is operable in second network but is not associated with the user s first communication device may have its QoS parameters changed in order to allow second communication device to for example achieve higher bit rate communications.

In another example a peer to peer link may be established between first communication device and second communication device . In some examples the peer to peer link may utilize one of for example Bluetooth infra red Wi Fi and near field communication NFC . In this example first communication device may inform second communication device of its change of talk group via the peer to peer link . Therefore optionally the information relating to a change of talk group of first communication device may be provided to the application function via the second communication device . Further information relating to the ISSI of first communication device may also be provided to second communication device via the peer to peer link . Therefore in some examples the LMR network zone controller may be bypassed in terms of providing talk group and ISSI information. This may have an advantage of simplifying the procedure for allocating resources for one or more bearers for second communication device associated with the user of first communication device .

In some examples a user may utilize an enhanced communication device which may comprise a combination of the functionality of first communication device and second communication device . Therefore in this example a peer to peer link may not be required as information relating to talk group ISSI and IMSI may already be shared between the communication device via a direct link that is internal to the device.

Application function allows a user of a first communication device who may be involved in an event or may have just left an event to switch the talk group of his first communication device and have the QoS of an associated second communication device dynamically changed in response to switching the talk group of first communication device . Thus application function may allow a simplified procedure for altering QoS of second communication device associated with first communication device and of any other communication devices operable other networks when those devices are associated with first communication device . A user may base his her choice of talk group on for example location trajectory proximity to an incident job role etc. In addition the priorities for each of the talk groups may define a level of access QoS to produce a more flexible system compared to what is currently available in known systems. The change in talk group when a first communication device has just been enabled and there is no current talk group may take the form of an indication of an initial talk group.

Each of first network and second network can span one or more logical jurisdictions wherein a jurisdiction can be defined by a geographic boundary that includes one or more cells or as defined by geo coordinates or mapping coordinates. Each cell may represent a geographic coverage area that may provide the wireless resources and or wired resources also termed herein as bearers for carrying data or SDFs for communication devices connected to the radio access network of that cell. Each cell is defined as being inclusive of a single base station s coverage area or a portion of a base station coverage area and can be identified by a cell identifier.

As used herein the term bearer may be defined as a transmission path in a wireless network e.g. RAN . A bearer may be used to carry wireless device data traffic which are also termed as communications or service data flows SDFs . A bearer can have both an uplink path from second communication device to the second core network and a downlink path from second core network to second communication device . A bearer can be unidirectional such as a common point to multipoint PTM downlink path for multicast or broadcast traffic. A bearer can be point to point PTP such as a dedicated bearer or a default bearer in an LTE network associated with a single device or a PTM bearer such as a multicast or broadcast bearer associated with one or more devices . A bearer in an LTE network may be a default bearer or a dedicated bearer. A bearer can be characterized by a level of Quality of Service. Quality of Service refers to resource reservation control mechanisms and may include bearer allocation retention and pre emption scheduling priority for packets level of performance of SDFs admission priority packet latency packet loss rate effective bandwidth minimum bandwidth maximum bandwidth required bit rate delay jitter packet dropping probability and or error rate may be guaranteed.

QoS and hence priority may be determined based on one or more QoS parameters included in a set of Policy and Charging Control PCC rules selected for the wireless device. The PCC rules may include one or more QoS rules of parameters billing and charging rules authorization rules or rules about which applications can be used and which types of bearers may or may not be established or allocated to second communication device .

In some examples the indication of a change of talk group may be an indication of a change of a current talk group of the first communication device . However the indication of a change of talk group may be an indication that the first communication device has switched on and has attached to a particular talk group. The first network may be a public safety network and the first communication device may be a portable or mobile radio.

In some examples the LMR network zone controller may provide an indication of the change of talk group of the first communication device . The first communication device may report the change of talk group to the second communication device via peer to peer link wherein the second communication device may provide the reported change of talk group of the first communication device via the second network to the relevant network entity for example LMR gateway .

In some examples an access gateway for example the LMR gateway may be configured to receive information relating to an inter RF subsystem interface ISSI of first communication device . Further the access gateway may be additionally configured to map the ISSI information to a database of international mobile subscriber identities IMSIs whereby the access gateway determines the second communication device associated with the first communication device .

In some examples the QoS calculation function may determine a set of active services for second communication device . Here the set of active services may at least partially determine changes to currently active services including one or more bearers currently active in the second network further services that may be activated later for the second communication device and services activated during attachment of the device to the second network . The second network may decide whether or not the second communication device can attach immediately based on whether or not a calculated QoS value for the second communication device permits attachment to the second network. In some examples the QoS calculation function maps the indication to a database of calculation methods to generate the QoS modification request message. The QoS modification message may comprise one of application identification media type requested priority maximum guaranteed bit rate IP address ports direction or protocol. In some examples the QoS calculation function may transmit a QoS modification request message for each service identified for the second communication device .

In some examples the access gateway for example the LMR gateway may be configured based on a received indication to determine a plurality of other communication devices that are associated with the first communication device and that operate on second network or other communication networks. In this case the interface is configured to provide the QoS modification request message to the second network and to the other communication networks in order to allow the second network and the other communication networks to adjust the QoS level of each of the other communication devices.

In some examples the second network is an LTE network providing broadband services to the second communication device and wherein the network entity for example application function is implemented as additional functionality in an AF of the second network . In some other examples the network entity for example application function may be implemented as a stand alone device wherein an interface links the access gateway of the network entity to an AF of the second network .

In some examples a minimum period between formulating a first QoS modification request message and formulating a second QoS modification request message may be provided. Alternatively a minimum period between transmitting successive QoS modification request messages to the second network may be provided thereby preventing adjustments of the QoS level of the second communication device from being made with a frequency that exceeds an acceptable level. In some examples the minimum period may be set so that two consecutive indications of talk group change for the same first communication device are not processed within the time limit set by a debounce timer. The debounce timer may be configured to discard all talk group change notifications which are generated during the period for which the timer is running except the last one that is generated before the end of the time period. The last one will then be processed after expiration of the timer and hence this last notification of a change of talk group is not lost.

In some examples a controller for example QoS calculation function may be part of the application function is configured to transmit updated QoS parameters for one or more bearers of the second communication device to the Policy and Charging Enforcement Function PCEF of P GW within the second network . The Policy and Charging Enforcement Function PCEF then applies the updated QoS parameters within the second network . In some examples the controller may be configured to calculate and transmit updated QoS parameters for bearers for each function of the second communication device based on the received QoS modification message. The controller will re calculate the QoS for any new SDF s that are created later after the talkgroup has already been changed.

Second communication device may be a broadband portable device operating on an LTE network. Second communication device may alternatively be a mobile data terminal device for example situated within a vehicle of a public safety user. Second communication device comprises an antenna for receiving transmissions coupled to an antenna switch or duplexer that provides isolation between receive and transmit chains within the second communication device . One or more receiver chains include receiver front end circuitry which is coupled to a signal processing module .

Controller maintains overall operational control of the second communication device . The controller is also coupled to the receiver front end circuitry and the signal processing module . In some examples the controller is also coupled to a buffer module and a memory device . The transmit chain includes an input module coupled in series through transmitter modulation circuitry and a power amplifier to the antenna antenna array or plurality of antennas. The various components within second communication device can be realized in discrete or integrated component form.

The first communication device comprises similar functionality to second communication device . The references for corresponding elements of first communication device have reference signs increased by 50 relative to the same components of second communication device .

Direct peer to peer link may be employed in some embodiments between first communication device and second communication device . Peer to peer link may allow information relating to the second communication device and first communication device to be transferred. For example ISSI and talk group information may be transferred from the first communication device to the second communication device .

Although first communication device and second communication device are shown as separate devices they may form different functional elements of a single device assigned to the user in which case the peer to peer link would be an internal link within the single device.

In this example a user may carry a primary communication device for example first communication device which may be an LMRS device and a number of associated secondary communication devices for example second communication device and other such devices. Second communication devices may be mobile broadband LTE device and the other secondary communication devices carried by the user may be mobile broadband LTE devices or devices using other access technologies.

In some examples the user s secondary communication devices may already have successfully attached to and been authenticated by the LTE Evolved Packet Core EPC of second network with active data links established by the application function as per the standard SDF establishment procedure.

The user at some point in time may determine that a different talk group is required for his primary communication device. This determination may be based for example on the user s location trajectory proximity to an event etc. Alternatively a talk group change may be made on the user s device by LMR network zone controller .

In some other examples the user may enable i.e. switch on first communication device at which point the first communication device initially connects to a talk group. This may also then result in an indication of a change of talk group being transmitted.

In some other examples the user of the primary communication device which may have LMRS radio with talk group scan list function enabled may select an active talk group by responding to an incoming PTT push to talk voice call transmitted on the scanned talk group.

The active talk group selected by the user on first communication device may be signaled to LMR network zone controller . The LMR network zone controller may subsequently pass information that may relate to the user s current selected active talk group and ISSI information to LMR gateway within the application function . In some other examples the active talk group selected by the user may be signaled via peer to peer link to one or more secondary devices and then to the application function . Subsequently details of the active talk group and ISSI information of the primary communication device may be transferred to third database and LMR gateway .

LMR gateway may pass ISSI information to third database which may be an ISSI IMSI mapping database. Therefore the application function via the LMR gateway may identify secondary communication devices associated with the ISSI of the primary communication device. In one example the LMR gateway may map ISSI information of first communication device with LTE IMSI information of one or more secondary communication devices associated with the same user.

Subsequently in some examples the LMR gateway may determine if the talk group of the primary communication device changes too often for example by utilizing a debounce timer. If it is determined that the talk group changes too often the LMR gateway may wait until it is established that the talk group does not change too often before passing information relating to LTE IMSIs and the current active talk group to a QoS calculation function . This may have an advantage of reducing processing within the application function until a user has selected the correct desired talk group.

The QoS calculation function may base the QoS calculation method on the user s current active talk group. For example the QoS calculation function may take into account talk group identification ID in order to determine a QoS calculation method from fourth database . Therefore in some examples the QoS calculation function may take into account talk group ID mapping to support services and priorities. Table 1 provides an example of a talk group mapping table that may be utilized by the QoS calculation function is illustrated. The QoS calculation methods may be pre populated in fourth database in order to allow adjustment of the QoS for each specific talk group that is set up.

Therefore in some examples the QoS calculation function may take into consideration the priority of the user s current active talk group when determining a QoS calculation method from fourth database . Similarly the QoS calculation function may further take into consideration the supported services for the relevant talk group.

QoS parameters may be transmitted from the QoS calculation function to an LTE QoA enforcement function to allow a QoS request to be generated.

In some examples the LTE QoS enforcement function may determine the current active services for each secondary communication device associated with the primary communication device and for each identified service map the talk group requirements to a corresponding set of rules to allow a QoS request to be generated.

A QoS request may comprise one or more of information pertaining to application ID media type requested priority max GBR IP address ports direction and protocol.

In some examples the LTE QoS enforcement function may for each service identified for the associated secondary communication device s transmit QoS modification requests to the LTE EPC . This permits the calculation installation enforcement termination of QoS rules. In some examples the QoS modification requests may be transmitted via a standard Rx interface between the application function and a PCRF of the LTE control network.

Subsequently the LTE control network within the LTE EPC may calculate QoS parameters based on the received QoS modification requests for existing user s bearers and modify its QoS rules accordingly. As a result QoS for data links established for each associated secondary communication device may receive updated rules accordingly.

In some examples prior to operation the application function may be configured or programmed with information to facilitate its functionality upon receiving information relating to a change of talk group for example.

In one example one or more agency administrators may configure aspects of the application function through an API application programming interface not shown with policy rules to apply with regards to bearer QoS and or applications running on one or more communication devices. For example the application function may be configured with an identification of available applications supported by the communication devices for example second communication device and possibly other secondary communication devices. In one exemplary implementation applications may be launched and provided with different QoS depending on the identified active talk group of the first communication device . This may be implemented by assigning a QoS level to some of the talkgroups and using default QoS values for the rest of the talkgroups.

In some examples the LTE EPC may be operable to configure or reconfigure established bearers by performing one or more of the following changing allocation and retention priority ARP of one or more bearers changing the pre emption capable flag of one or more bearers changing the pre emption vulnerability flag of one or more bearers changing the bearer s from best effort to dedicated and vice versa changing the guaranteed bit rate GBR and maximum bit rate MBR for one or more bearers changing the responder s access class changing the QCI of one or more bearers or allowing some bearers but not others allowing some applications but not others allocating additional bearers. In some systems the exact configuration response is subject to negotiation with the carrier. Assigning different QoS levels to different LMR talk groups may provide a simple and flexible system for users allowing better management of LTE resources based on activities in the LMR network when compared to known systems.

There are various ways in which an SDF may be established. Second communication device may use a default bearer to make a request to the application function for a new service. Application function will calculate the QoS parameters for the new service and will request that the PCRF create a new SDF. The PCRF will create the new SDF in accordance with the currently selected talkgroup. The PCRF will install the appropriate QoS rules on the PCEF of P GW .

Message sequence chart comprises a primary communication device which may be first communication device . LMR network zone controller is a necessary part of first communication system but is only optional for implementation of the invention. Application function may be the application function illustrated in .

LTE EPC is part of second core network which may also comprise for example one or more associated secondary devices . The secondary devices may be second communication device which may be an LTE mobile broadband device and may also comprise other communication devices in second network . LTE EPC may further comprise a P GW which may be operably coupled to the PCRF . This may allow the PCRF to adjust QoS via P GW based on information received from the application function .

In some examples a user may utilize a primary communication device which may be for example first communication device and one or more associated secondary devices which may be for example second communication device . The primary communication device may be operable to communicate with the one or more associated secondary devices via a peer to peer link . Therefore in these examples it may not be necessary to utilize the LMR network zone controller to relay information to the application function . In these examples information relating to current active talk group and associated ISSI information may be forwarded via the peer to peer link to the one or more associated secondary devices which may subsequently forward it to the application function via the LTE EPC .

Further in some examples a user may utilize a single communication device that comprises the functionality of both primary communication device and one or more associated secondary devices . Therefore in these examples it may also not be necessary to utilize the LMR network zone controller .

Referring to operation of the message sequence chart a user may determine that they may need to change the current talk group of their primary communication device . In some other examples where the user has just enabled their primary communication device the device and or user may determine that an initial talk group or a change from the initial talk group is required. Upon changing talk group the primary communication device may attach to a talkgroup using the LMR network zone controller . In some examples where there may not be any direct communication between the primary communication device and the one or more associated secondary devices the LMR network zone controller may forward information relating to the currently selected active talk group and ISSI information of the primary communication device to the application function . Otherwise in other examples that may utilize a peer to peer link or such like current active talk group and ISSI information may be transmitted to the application function via the one or more associated secondary devices rather than the LMR network zone controller .

In the above example the one or more associated secondary devices had already attached to and been authenticated by the LTE EPC prior to the primary communication device changing talk group. Therefore the application function may have already been made aware of the one or more associated secondary devices as a result of information stored in third database prior to receiving ISSI and talk group information relating to the primary communication device .

Upon receiving talk group and or ISSI information the application function may utilize a mapping database in order to map received ISSI information with IMSI information of the one or more associated secondary devices .

In some examples the application function after determining the one or more associated secondary devices may perform procedure for each mapped IMSI of the one or more associated secondary devices . The application function also performs procedure for each determined set of active services for each of the one or more associated secondary devices .

In this example the procedure comprises enabling a debounce timer in order to determine whether the user of the primary communication device is in the process of changing talk groups too frequently. If the application function does not receive a further change of talk group from the same primary communication device before the debounce timer expires the application function may continue to procedure .

Subsequently the application function may choose from a database a QoS request calculation method based on the user s active talk group which may take into account talk group ID mapping for supported devices and priorities.

The application function may then calculate QoS request parameters and map the current talk group to a corresponding set of rules allowing a QoS request to be generated.

At the application function may transmit the generated QoS request which may be a QoS modification request over a standard Rx interface between the application function and a PCRF of the LTE EPC . The QoS request may comprise one or more of application ID media type requested priority max GBR IP address ports direction and protocol. In some examples the application function may transmit a QoS request for each service identified. At calculation installation enforcement termination of the QoS rules occurs at LTE EPC .

At upon receiving one or more QoS requests from the application function the LTE EPC may apply QoS rules to the one or more associated secondary devices . LTE EPC may calculate QoS parameters in order to modify existing bearers and modify QoS rules for the one or more associated secondary devices . Furthermore in some examples the LTE EPC may transmit QoS modification requests to other unassociated devices of other users in order to modify their QoS parameters which may result in enhanced services for the user of the primary communication device .

The invention may allow a user for example a public safety user to pass a current LMR context onto an LTE network and trigger an automatic adjustment of broadband services on the user s associated LTE mobile broadband device s . The user may simply switch talk group via a knob on the LMR device and all the infrastructure would work behind the scenes to automatically adjust the QoS of an associated or integral LTE mobile broadband device s based on the selected talk group. For example if the user was responding to an incident the user may switch to a talk group associated with the incident. As a result his LTE mobile broadband devices can begin streaming high quality video in order to assist the user to attend the incident because the user s device now has QoS parameters allowing the device to support such high quality video streaming. In some other examples the user may enable turn on his device wherein his device may initially connect to a talk group. The initial connection to the talk group then causes the infrastructure to receive an indication of a change of talk group. However when LMR Network Zone Controller requests that the primary communication device joins a talk group the infrastructure already knows the talk group.

Further utilizing some examples of the invention a new application to control QoS may be achieved. For example talk groups could be created based on many factors including for example location trajectory proximity to an incident importance of user etc. Therefore QoS may be varied for almost any application that a talk group is set up for. Furthermore utilizing some examples of the invention may allow a trigger for example dynamic creation of a talk group to also trigger QoS modification so that all users of the dynamically created talk group may have sufficient access to LTE resources.

It should be noted that although some examples have been implemented with LMR devices and infrastructure this should not be seen as limiting. Examples of the invention may equally be utilized with any infrastructure that allows group calls to be made.

In some examples it may be envisaged that the user may be for example a police officer utilizing a primary LMR radio and multiple secondary LTE devices. These multiple LTE devices may comprise for example hand held devices vehicle terminals IP cameras smart watches or smart glasses etc. In some examples switching talk group on the user s LMR device may cause QoS modification on all of the user s LTE devices.

When a talk group change or initial selection acts as a trigger to modify QoS for associated devices it may not be necessary for the LMR or associated LTE devices to transmit jurisdictional status information or information about whether a user is currently involved in an incident. Therefore these aspects may not need to be configured and conveyed in the application function in order to make QoS related decisions. Therefore in some examples only a change in talk group is required to effect a QoS change in associated LTE devices.

In some examples one or more talk groups may be setup based on specific user requirements wherein priorities may be assigned to each of the talk groups defining the level of access QoS . This may have an advantage of increasing flexibility of the system. Furthermore a talk group may relate to any factor deemed necessary by the user.

In the foregoing specification examples have been provided relating to transmitting receiving an indication of a change in talk group. It should be noted that the change in talk group may be to a talk group with for example a higher level of QoS or a lower level of QoS.

Further transmitting receiving an indication of a change in talk group may relate to a change in current location trajectory proximity to an incident importance of user etc.

Furthermore in some examples where there was not an indication of a change from a current talk group i.e. when the device was just enabled then the indication of a change of a talk group may relate to an initial connection to a talk group.

Referring now to there is illustrated a computing system that may be employed to implement QoS modification of at least one second communication device associated with a first communication device when the first communication device may has changed its current talk group or initially attached to a talk group after being switched on. Computing system may be for example a desktop laptop or notebook computer hand held computing device PDA cell phone palmtop etc. mainframe server client or any other type of special or general purpose computing device. Computing system can include one or more processors such as a processor .

Processor may be a microprocessor microcontroller or other control logic. Processor is connected to a bus or other communications medium. Computing system includes a main memory such as random access memory RAM or other dynamic memory for storing information and instructions to be executed by processor . Main memory may store temporary variables or other intermediate information during execution of instructions to be executed by processor . Computing system may include a read only memory ROM or other static storage device coupled to bus for storing static information and instructions for processor .

The computing system may also include information storage system which may include a media drive and a removable storage unit interface . The media drive may include a drive or other mechanism to support a fixed or removable storage media such as a hard disk drive an optical disk drive a compact disc or digital video drive read or write drive. Thus removable storage media includes a computer readable storage medium having particular computer software or data stored therein.

In some embodiments information storage system may include a removable storage unit such as a removable memory a flash memory or other removable memory module. Information storage system may include other removable storage units such as removable storage unit and interfaces such as removable storage unit interface that allow software and data to be transferred from the removable storage media to computing system .

Computing system includes a communications interface to allow software and data to be transferred between computing system and external devices. Software and data transferred via communications interface are in the form of signals provided to communications interface via a channel . This channel may carry signals and may be implemented using a wireless medium wire or cable fiber optics or other communications medium. Some examples of a channel include a phone line a cellular phone link an RF link a network interface a local or wide area network and other communications channels.

In this document the terms computer program product computer readable medium and the like may be used generally to refer to media such as for example main memory removable storage media or removable storage unit . These and other forms of computer readable media may store one or more instructions for use by processor to cause the processor to perform specified operations. Such instructions generally referred to as computer program code which may be grouped in the form of computer programs or other groupings when executed enable the computing system to perform functions of embodiments of the present invention. The code may directly cause processor to perform specified operations be compiled to do so and or be combined with other software hardware and or firmware elements e.g. libraries for performing standard functions to do so.

The control logic in this example software instructions or computer program code when executed by the processor causes the processor to perform the functions of the invention as described herein. In one example a tangible non transitory computer program product comprises executable program code operable for implementing QoS modification of at least second communication device associated with first communication device when the primary communication device changes its talk group.

Initially as a precondition an LTE device may have already successfully attached to and been authenticated by the LTE EPC . Furthermore the application function may have established active data links with the LTE device as per the standard SDF establishment procedure.

Subsequently at the user of the LTE device may select a new talk group on their LMRS radio by for example switching to a new talk group. Alternatively the user may enable their LMRS radio and initially select and attach to an available talk group. The LMRS radio may implement a scan list which allows the user to listen to the available talk groups on the scan list in addition to their currently selected main talk group. In this case the user may select an active talk group by responding to an incoming PTT voice call transmitted on a scanned talk group from the scan list. However LMR network zone controller may instead choose the talk group.

At the LMRS radio may communicate the active talk group selection to zone controller which may relay the active talk group selection to the application function in the LTE network. In some other examples where the user may be utilizing interconnected or converged devices talk group selection information can alternatively be transmitted from the LMRS radio through the LTE device to the application function .

At the application function identifies LTE device associated with LMRS radio using ISSI IMSI mapping.

At the application function checks that the talk group selection and or change is not too frequent. For example this may be by utilizing a debounce timer.

At the application function selects a method for QoS request calculation which may be based on but not limited to the user s selected active talk group. In this example the selection of the method for QoS request calculation takes into account talk group ID mapping to supported services and priorities refer to Table 1 . At the application function determines the set of active services for each LTE device that is associated with the LMRS radio . Subsequently at for each service identified the application function maps the selected active talk group to a corresponding set of rules allowing a QoS request to be generated. The QoS request may consist of one or more of application ID media type requested priority max GBR IP address Ports direction or protocol.

At the application function transmits for each service identified a QoS modification request message to the LTE EPC for the calculation installation enforcement of QoS rules. In some examples the QoS request message may be sent using standard Rx interface between the application function and PCRF within the LTE EPC .

At the LTE EPC for example the core calculates QoS parameters for the user s existing bearers and may modify its QoS rules. Subsequently at QoS for data links established for each associated LTE device may be updated accordingly. In some examples QoS for non associated LTE devices i.e. LTE devices not associated with the user of the LMRS radio may also be updated.

Initially at the process starts at the LMR gateway . At an indication is received of a change of talk group of a first communication device operating on the first network. In this example the first communication device may be an LMRS device and the indication of a change of talk group could relate to a switching talk groups or an initial talk group selection if the first communication device had just been enabled.

At it is determined whether any second communication devices are associated with the first communication device wherein the second communication device s is are operating on the second network .

At a QoS calculation function is utilized to determine a QoS modification based on the received indication. Based on the determination a QoS modification message is formulated.

At the QoS modification request message is provided to the second network in order to allow the second network to adjust the QoS level of the second communication device .

In the foregoing specification specific embodiments have been described. However one of ordinary skill in the art appreciates that various modifications and changes can be made without departing from the scope of the invention as set forth in the claims below. Accordingly the specification and figures are to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense and all such modifications are intended to be included within the scope of present teachings.

The benefits advantages solutions to problems and any element s that may cause any benefit advantage or solution to occur or become more pronounced are not to be construed as a critical required or essential features or elements of any or all the claims. The invention is defined solely by the appended claims including any amendments made during the pendency of this application and all equivalents of those claims as issued.

Moreover in this document relational terms such as first and second top and bottom and the like may be used solely to distinguish one entity or action from another entity or action without necessarily requiring or implying any actual such relationship or order between such entities or actions. The terms comprises comprising has having includes including contains containing or any other variation thereof are intended to cover a non exclusive inclusion such that a process method article or apparatus that comprises has includes contains a list of elements does not include only those elements but may include other elements not expressly listed or inherent to such process method article or apparatus. An element proceeded by comprises . . . a has . . . a includes . . . a contains . . . a does not without more constraints preclude the existence of additional identical elements in the process method article or apparatus that comprises has includes contains the element. The terms a and an are defined as one or more unless explicitly stated otherwise herein. The terms substantially essentially approximately about or any other version thereof are defined as being close to as understood by one of ordinary skill in the art and in one non limiting embodiment the term is defined to be within 10 in another embodiment within 5 in another embodiment within 1 and in another embodiment within 0.5 . The term coupled as used herein is defined as connected although not necessarily directly and not necessarily mechanically. A device or structure that is configured in a certain way is configured in at least that way but may also be configured in ways that are not listed.

It will be appreciated that some embodiments may be comprised of one or more generic or specialized processors or processing devices such as microprocessors digital signal processors customized processors and field programmable gate arrays FPGAs and unique stored program instructions including both software and firmware that control the one or more processors to implement in conjunction with certain non processor circuits some most or all of the functions of the method and or apparatus described herein. Alternatively some or all functions could be implemented by a state machine that has no stored program instructions or in one or more application specific integrated circuits ASICs in which each function or some combinations of certain of the functions are implemented as custom logic. Of course a combination of the two approaches could be used.

Moreover an embodiment can be implemented as a computer readable storage medium having computer readable code stored thereon for programming a computer e.g. comprising a processor to perform a method as described and claimed herein. Examples of such computer readable storage mediums include but are not limited to a hard disk a CD ROM an optical storage device a magnetic storage device a ROM Read Only Memory a PROM Programmable Read Only Memory an EPROM Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory an EEPROM Electrically Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory and a Flash memory. Further it is expected that one of ordinary skill notwithstanding possibly significant effort and many design choices motivated by for example available time current technology and economic considerations when guided by the concepts and principles disclosed herein will be readily capable of generating such software instructions and programs and ICs with minimal experimentation.

The Abstract of the Disclosure is provided to allow the reader to quickly ascertain the nature of the technical disclosure. It is submitted with the understanding that it will not be used to interpret or limit the scope or meaning of the claims. In addition in the foregoing Detailed Description it can be seen that various features are grouped together in various embodiments for the purpose of streamlining the disclosure. This method of disclosure is not to be interpreted as reflecting an intention that the claimed embodiments require more features than are expressly recited in each claim. Rather as the following claims reflect inventive subject matter lies in less than all features of a single disclosed embodiment. Thus the following claims are hereby incorporated into the Detailed Description with each claim standing on its own as a separately claimed subject matter.

