---

title: Systems and methods for device emulation on mobile channel
abstract: A user may access a website via a mobile channel using a mobile device. As the user is logged into the website, the user may call or otherwise contact a representative via another communications channel with the mobile device or another user device, such as a phone or a user computing device or another mobile device. An emulator engine may determine the type of mobile device that the user is using to access the website via the mobile channel. An emulator for the mobile device that has been determined may be retrieved from an emulator library and provided to the representative computing device. The representative may view the same user interface on the representative computing device that the user sees on the mobile device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09444878&OS=09444878&RS=09444878
owner: United Services Automobile Association (USAA)
number: 09444878
owner_city: San Antonio
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150330
---
This application is a Continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 311 756 filed Dec. 6 2011 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 412 165 which is a Continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 487 908 filed on Jun. 19 2009 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 072 926 which is herein incorporated by reference.

A communications channel refers to the medium used to convey information from a sender to a receiver. Mobile communications channels referred to herein as a mobile channels are well known and may be used by mobile devices. Mobile devices include cellular phone devices mobile phones smartphones handheld computing devices personal digital assistants and the like.

Mobile devices may be used by users to access content on a website of a business entity via a mobile channel. Different mobile devices e.g. depending on the mobile device type and or manufacturer have different user interfaces. Thus the user is presented with a particular arrangement of content from the website options menus selections etc. depending on the mobile device they are using. The arrangements of content options menus selections etc. that are presented to the user may vary among the different mobile devices.

Because the user interfaces of the mobile devices differ it is difficult for a representative of the business entity to assist e.g. remotely via phone etc. a user who is accessing content on the website on the mobile channel. The representative is not able to specifically see what the user is seeing at the mobile device level for the particular mobile device of the user.

A user may access a website via a mobile channel using a mobile device. As the user is logged into the website the user may call or otherwise contact a representative via another communications channel. An emulator engine may determine the type of mobile device that the user is using to access the website via the mobile channel. An emulator for the mobile device that has been determined may be retrieved from an emulator library and provided to the representative computing device. The representative may view the same user interface on the representative computing device that the user sees on the mobile device.

In an implementation the user may call or otherwise contact a representative with the mobile device that is being used to access the website. In an implementation the user may call or otherwise contact a representative with another user device besides the mobile device that is being used to access the website such as a phone or a user computing device or another mobile device.

In an implementation the user may request a callback from the representative via the website and the representative may call the user back on the mobile device or another user device.

This summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the detailed description. This summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

The user may be seeking access to the institution system to obtain information about an institution associated with the institution system an account of the user maintained by the institution system products or services or to speak with a representative for example. The institution may be any type of entity or business. For example the institution may be a financial services institution a credit card association or member of a credit card association a retail bank an investment bank an investment company etc. The institution system may include any combination of systems and subsystems such as electronic devices including but not limited to computers servers databases or the like. The electronic devices may include any combination of hardware components such as processors databases storage drives registers cache random access memory RAM chips data buses or the like and or software components such as operating systems database management applications or the like.

The user devices and communications channels described herein are examples only and any number and any types of user devices and communications channels may be implemented. The phone may be any type of telecommunications device used to transmit and receive sound such as a corded telephone a cordless phone a mobile phone etc. The mobile device may be any type of mobile computing device such as a mobile phone a smartphone a handheld computing device or a personal digital assistant PDA . An example user computing device is described with respect to . Additionally any number of users with associated user devices may be in communication with the institution system .

Each of the user computing device the phone and the mobile device may be connected with the institution system over one or more communications channels of an associated network. It is contemplated that each network may be any type of private or public communication network such as for example an intranet Internet local area network LAN wide area network WAN wireless fidelity WiFi network cellular connection plain old telephone service POTS a public switched telephone network PSTN a voice over Internet protocol VoIP network and the like. The user computing device the phone and the mobile device may be connected to the institution system over the same network or different networks.

The institution system may comprise a representative who may have an associated representative computing device and representative phone . The representative may communicate with the user over a communications channel using the representative computing device or the representative phone . An example representative computing device is described with respect to and the representative phone may be any type of telecommunications device used to transmit and receive sound. Although only one representative is shown in it is contemplated that any number of representatives and associated representative computing devices and representative phones may be in communication with or otherwise associated with the institution system and may be used for communication with the user .

As described further herein the user may access a website of the institution system via the mobile channel using the mobile device . The website provided via the mobile channel may be different than the website provided via the data channel to the user computing device for example with respect to displays content and or tools provided to the user .

At some point as the user is logged into the website via the mobile channel the user may call or otherwise contact the representative via another communications channel with the mobile device or another of the user devices such as the phone or the user computing device or another mobile device. Thus in an implementation at some point the user may initiate another connection to the institution system via a second communications channel with a second user device that is different than the mobile device via the first communications channel e.g. the mobile channel . For example the user may wish to speak with the representative of the institution system about a user account a product or service etc. In an implementation the user may initiate this connection by calling the representative or the institution system or by requesting a call from the representative e.g. via a request made on the website . In this case the communications channel may be a voice channel such as the voice channel .

An emulator engine may determine the type of mobile device e.g. Apple iPhone Research in Motion BlackBerry Samsung Nokia etc. that the user is using to access the website via the mobile channel . Any known technique may be used to determine the type of mobile device that is being used to access the website .

An emulator library comprises a plurality of emulators of various types of mobile devices. An emulator for the mobile device that has been determined may be retrieved from the emulator library if such an emulator is available and provided to the representative computing device . In this manner the representative when speaking or otherwise communicating with the user e.g. by the voice channel by instant message by text message by web chat using the representative phone etc. about the website as rendered on the mobile device via the mobile channel may view the same user interface on the representative computing device that the user sees on the mobile device . This allows for more accurate and detailed service from the representative to the user regarding the website and information associated with or provided by the website .

An emulator duplicates i.e. provides an emulation of the functions of one system using a different system so that the second system behaves like and appears to be the first system. Emulation refers to the ability of a computer program or electronic device to imitate another program or device. Thus emulation allows the representative computing device to provide the representative with the look feel and behavior of the mobile device e.g. the user interface of the mobile device that has been determined to be in use by the user .

For example if the mobile device of the user is determined to be an iPhone an iPhone emulator may be provided to the representative computing device that mimics the user interface of the website provided to the mobile device . The user activity may be tracked by the institution system e.g. by the emulator engine and such activity may be provided to the representative and or the representative computing device on displays that are the same as those being provided to the mobile device so that the representative can see the actions that the user is taking. Although providing the emulator on the representative computing device with data regarding the user and their activity is not co browsing the representative and the user may have the same experience with respect to the website as provided on the mobile device and allows the representative to avoid what are you seeing type questions to the user during the communication e.g. via voice instant message text message web chat etc. between the representative and the user .

The authentication engine and the emulator engine may analyze process and store the data from the user and the user devices and the representative in one or more data sources via a data source access engine . The data may also be stored in other storage perhaps in storage associated with the institution system such as storage . The authentication engine may use the data to authenticate the user e.g. via strong authentication via weak authentication etc. to permit the user access to content associated with the institution system via a communications channel through which the user is seeking access. Data that may be stored may include personal data about the user such as user names passwords pass phrases personal identification numbers PINS and other data that may be used to identify and authenticate the user .

The institution system may include a user interface module . The user interface module may generate and format one or more pages of content as a unified graphical presentation that may be provided to one or more of the user devices such as the mobile device as an output from the institution system . The page s of content may be provided to the mobile device via the website associated with the institution system . The page s of content may be provided to other user devices of the user such as the phone or the user computing device depending on the implementation.

In an implementation instead of hosting the website the institution system may comprise a conventional application server hosting a proprietary online service accessible only a private network. In any event the institution system may have appropriate security mechanisms in place to prevent unauthorized third parties from intercepting the user s information.

The institution system may also comprise a web service . The web service may capture the user session data e.g. contextual information such as user identifier webpage clicked from additional session information etc. . In an implementation the web service may make a call to storage such as the data source s or the storage for a data lookup to retrieve the user s previously stored phone numbers or contact information e.g. gathered from a user s earlier purchase membership or registration information or public sources such as online telephone listings or books .

The user interface module may provide the user with access to a phone system of the institution system . The phone system may be any type of system that may provide information to a device of the user such as the phone or the mobile device . In an implementation the phone system may use any type of phone menu system and may use interactive voice response IVR which is a phone technology that allows a computer to detect voice and touch tones using a phone call. An IVR system can respond with prerecorded or dynamically generated audio to further direct users on how to proceed. IVR systems can be used to control almost any function where the interface can be broken down into a series of menu choices. For example the user may dial a phone number that is answered by an IVR system. The IVR system may execute an application which is tied to the number dialed. As part of the application prerecorded audio files or dynamically generated text to speech audio may explain the options available to the user . The user may be given the choice to select options using DTMF dual tone multi frequency tones or spoken words. Examples of typical IVR applications include telephone banking and credit card transactions.

In an implementation the phone system may comprise a voice portal which gives access to information maintained by the institution system through spoken commands and voice responses. The voice portal could be an access point for any type of information services or transactions found on the Internet. A voice portal may be automated and or Internet based to provide interactive voice services. Information may also be provided to the user via the representative .

The institution system may comprise a contact routing engine . The contact routing engine may be used to determine whether the representative is available to call back the user at the phone of the user and may also be used to determine which representative is available as described further herein.

In an implementation the user may use the user interface module to interact with the authentication engine for example to authenticate to the institution system via one or more communications channels. The user may use the user interface module to request or receive information from the institution system e.g. in conjunction with the data source access engine which may retrieve data from data source s storage and other storage internal and or external to the institution system in an implementation.

Data may also be provided to the authentication engine by the user or the representative . The data may be received via the user interface module in an implementation. The retrieved and or received data may be associated with the user and may be used to authenticate the user and provide access to information maintained by the institution system via one or more communications channels.

The institution system may comprise one or more computing devices . The user may interact with the computing device s via the user computing device the phone or the mobile device via the appropriate communications channel. The computing device s may have one or more processors storage e.g. storage devices memory etc. and software modules . The computing device s including its processor s storage and software modules may be used in the performance of the techniques and operations described herein. Information associated with the user the mobile device of the user and authentication of the user may be stored in storage or other storage such as data source s for example.

Examples of software modules may include modules for identifying and authenticating the user generating web page content for display via the data channel and or the mobile channel generating phone system content determining the type of mobile device the user is accessing the website with retrieving an emulator for the mobile device from the emulator library and loading the emulator on the representative computing device and receiving requests and instructions from the user described further herein. While specific functionality is described herein as occurring with respect to specific modules the functionality may likewise be performed by more fewer or other modules. An example computing device and its components are described in more detail with respect to .

It is contemplated that the techniques described herein may be used with respect to two separate user devices each having at least one communications channel or a single user device having multiple communications channels.

At using known techniques the institution system may determine the type of mobile device e.g. an iPhone a Blackberry a Samsung smartphone etc. that the user is using to access the website over the mobile channel and store this information in a database record associated with the user for example. Identification information pertaining to the user and the session may also be stored in the database record. Content may be provided from the institution system e.g. the website of the institution system to the mobile device via the mobile channel at .

During the interaction with the website the user may reach a point where they have a question or would like assistance or further information immediately e.g. before making a purchase of goods or services. At some point the user may initiate another connection to the institution system via another communications channel with the same device such as a data channel or voice channel on the mobile device or a different device such as a phone or personal computer PC for example. Thus a user may access an institution system via more than one communications channel either by the same device e.g. a mobile device accessing the institution system via a mobile channel a voice channel and or a data channel or by different devices e.g. a PC via a data channel or a phone via a voice channel . Communication may thus be established between the institution system e.g. a representative and the user.

At the user may call the institution system using the mobile device or any phone to speak with a representative e.g. about content or information from the institution system that is displayed on the mobile device about an interaction of the user with the website as displayed on the mobile device about the user interface that is displayed on the mobile device etc. The user may use the same device such the mobile device of the user to concurrently access an institution system through multiple communications channels mobile channel voice channel data channel etc. on the same device. In an implementation the user may contact and interact with the representative of the institution by other electronic techniques such as instant message text message or web chat for example.

It may be determined if the user is still in an active session on the first communications channel e.g. if the user is already authenticated to the system on the first communications channel such as the mobile channel . In an implementation the authentication engine may query the various communications channels to confirm that an authenticated session with the user is already in progress.

At the user may be identified and authenticated over the voice channel or data channel if the user is contacting the institution system via a data channel using known authentication techniques. The identification of the user over the voice channel or the data channel may be used to identify the session of the user over the mobile channel e.g. by accessing the database record associated with the user that had previously been stored at . The identification of the user over the voice channel may be used as a pointer into the appropriate database record associated with the user and data from the database may be retrieved pertaining to the user and the session over the mobile channel. Thus the institution system may identify the user s session over the mobile channel pursuant to receiving an identification of the user over the voice channel.

At it may be determined if the mobile device is supported by an emulator. Such a determination may be performed by determining if the institution system has an emulator that corresponds to the mobile device type from . If so at an emulator associated with the determined mobile device may be retrieved from storage of the institution system e.g. the emulator library comprising a plurality of emulators each of the plurality of emulators associated with a different type of mobile device and at the emulator may be provided to the computing device of the representative. The representative s view of the website may be changed to that of the mobile device s rendering of the website through the emulator. In this manner the representative may view the same user interface that the user is provided on the mobile device.

If it is determined at that the mobile device is not supported by an emulator a default emulator may be used to provide a default mobile view of the website to the representative via the representative computing device at . The default mobile view of the website may be a view for a general mobile device and not tailored to a specific mobile device.

At a call request icon directed to obtaining help for the user may be displayed on the page of the website that is being rendered on the mobile device. An icon a link or other selectable item such as a button or menu item collectively referred to herein as an icon may be displayed on the page along with other content to request an immediate callback e.g. within about 10 seconds from a representative at the institutions system associated with the website or page. The icon may be displayed with a message for example that states click to speak with a representative or the like.

At some point if the icon is being displayed the user may select or click on the icon at to request to speak with a representative. After the user clicks the icon for example previously stored phone numbers associated with the user may be displayed in a window and the user may select one of the numbers to be called back on. Alternately the user may enter a number in a window on which to receive the callback. The user may also input comments or questions in the window for example which may be provided to the representative ahead of the callback.

When the request for a callback is submitted a representative may be selected e.g. via the contact routing engine of to call the user back with help in some embodiments immediately using the number the user selected or entered. In this manner the user may remain on the website via the mobile channel and receive the assistance via a voice channel.

This request may be sent to a web service at for a callback to the user from an available representative. At the web service may capture the user session data e.g. contextual information such as type of mobile device used to access the website a user identifier and or other user information webpage clicked from additional session information etc. At the web service may make a call to storage such as a central user information database associated with the institution system for a data lookup to retrieve the user s previously stored phone numbers or contact information e.g. gathered from a user s earlier purchase membership or registration information or public sources such as online telephone listings or books .

At a representative may be identified that is to call the user and the data from and may be passed to the representative. At an emulator may be retrieved from storage using the device type e.g. determined at that is used by the user on the mobile channel and this emulator is provided on the representative computing device. The representative s view of the website is changed to that of the mobile device s rendering of the website through the emulator. In this manner the representative may view the same user interface that the user is provided on the mobile device. At the representative may call the user either manually or with an auto dialer for example and the representative and the user may engage in a phone conversation e.g. about the user s mobile channel session with the website that is being provided to the mobile device of the user.

At it may be determined if the mobile device has the capability to place a phone call e.g. via a voice channel . If not then processing may proceed at as set forth above with respect to the method .

If the mobile device is able to place a phone call then at a web service may capture the user session data e.g. contextual information such as type of mobile device used to access the website a user identifier and or other user information webpage clicked from additional session information etc. and provide this information to storage of the institution system. At the mobile device is instructed to place a call to a representative e.g. via an application on the mobile device and using a phone number or contact information of the representative provided upon selection of the call request icon.

At the representative may answer the phone and pursuant to the user being identified the data from may be provided to the representative e.g. from storage . At an emulator may be retrieved from storage using the device type that is used by the user on the mobile channel and this emulator may be provided on the representative computing device thereby changing the representative s view of the website to that of the mobile device s rendering of the website. The representative and user may engage in a phone conversation e.g. about the user s mobile channel session with the website that is being accessed by the mobile device of the user.

At using known techniques and similar to for example the institution system may determine the type of mobile device that the user is using to access the website over the mobile channel. Similar to it may be determined at if the mobile device is supported by an emulator in storage of the institution system.

If so at similar to a call request icon directed to obtaining help for the user may be displayed on the page of the website that is being rendered on the mobile device and processing may continue at or for example depending on the implementation. Thus it may be determined whether an icon should be displayed e.g. in a corner of the page display that is directed to a callback request. In some embodiments the icon may be displayed only under certain circumstances or rules e.g. if the mobile device is supported by an emulator .

If the mobile device is not supported by an emulator as determined at an icon directed to obtaining help for the user may not be displayed on the page of the website that is being rendered on the mobile device. Should the user call in to the institution system to speak with a representative a default mobile view of the website may be generated and provided to the representative at .

Numerous other general purpose or special purpose computing system environments or configurations may be used. Examples of well known computing systems environments and or configurations that may be suitable for use include but are not limited to PCs server computers handheld or laptop devices multiprocessor systems microprocessor based systems network PCs minicomputers mainframe computers embedded systems distributed computing environments that include any of the above systems or devices and the like.

Computer executable instructions such as program modules being executed by a computer may be used. Generally program modules include routines programs objects components data structures etc. that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Distributed computing environments may be used where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network or other data transmission medium. In a distributed computing environment program modules and other data may be located in both local and remote computer storage media including memory storage devices.

With reference to an exemplary system for implementing aspects described herein includes a computing device such as computing device . In its most basic configuration computing device typically includes at least one processing unit and system memory . Depending on the exact configuration and type of computing device system memory may be volatile such as RAM non volatile such as read only memory ROM flash memory etc. or some combination of the two. This most basic configuration is illustrated in by dashed line .

Computing device may have additional features and or functionality. For example computing device may include additional storage removable and or non removable including but not limited to magnetic or optical disks or tape. Such additional storage is illustrated in by removable storage and non removable storage .

Computing device typically includes a variety of computer readable media. Computer readable media can be any available media that can be accessed by computing device and include both volatile and non volatile media and removable and non removable media. By way of example and not limitation computer readable media may comprise computer storage media and communication media.

Computer storage media include volatile and non volatile and removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. System memory removable storage and non removable storage are all examples of computer storage media. Computer storage media include but are not limited to RAM ROM Electrically Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by computing device . Any such computer storage media may be part of computing device .

Computing device may also contain communication connection s that allow the computing device to communicate with other devices. Communication connection s is an example of communication media. Communication media typically embody computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and include any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal means a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communication media include wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic radio frequency RF infrared and other wireless media. The term computer readable media as used herein includes both storage media and communication media.

Computing device may also have input device s such as a keyboard mouse pen voice input device touch input device etc. Output device s such as a display speakers printer etc. may also be included. All these devices are well known in the art and need not be discussed at length here.

Computing device may be one of a plurality of computing devices inter connected by a network. As may be appreciated the network may be any appropriate network each computing device may be connected thereto by way of communication connection s in any appropriate manner and each computing device may communicate with one or more of the other computing devices in the network in any appropriate manner. For example the network may be a wired or wireless network within an organization or home or the like and may include a direct or indirect coupling to an external network such as the Internet or the like.

It should be understood that the various techniques described herein may be implemented in connection with hardware or software or where appropriate with a combination of both. Thus the methods and apparatus of the presently disclosed subject matter or certain aspects or portions thereof may take the form of program code i.e. instructions embodied in tangible media such as floppy diskettes CD ROMs hard drives or any other machine readable storage medium wherein when the program code is loaded into and executed by a machine such as a computer the machine becomes an apparatus for practicing the presently disclosed subject matter. In the case of program code execution on programmable computers the computing device generally includes a processor a storage medium readable by the processor including volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements at least one input device and at least one output device. One or more programs may implement or utilize the processes described in connection with the presently disclosed subject matter e.g. through the use of an application programming interface API reusable controls or the like. Such programs may be implemented in a high level procedural or object oriented programming language to communicate with a computer system. However the program s can be implemented in assembly or machine language if desired. In any case the language may be a compiled or interpreted language and it may be combined with hardware implementations.

Although exemplary embodiments may refer to utilizing aspects of the presently disclosed subject matter in the context of one or more stand alone computer systems the subject matter is not so limited but rather may be implemented in connection with any computing environment such as a network or distributed computing environment. Still further aspects of the presently disclosed subject matter may be implemented in or across a plurality of processing chips or devices and storage may similarly be effected across a plurality of devices. Such devices might include PCs network servers and handheld devices for example.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

