---

title: Tubular member, tubular member unit, intermediate transfer member, and image forming apparatus
abstract: A tubular member includes a resin layer containing a thermoplastic resin and a conductive material, and the resin layer forming a sea part in which the thermoplastic resin becomes a matrix phase, wherein an area ratio of the sea part to a portion in a range of 5 μm respectively to a front surface portion side and a rear surface portion side with a central portion of the resin layer in a thickness direction as a center is greater by 3% to 15% than a greater area ratio between an area ratio of the sea part to a portion in a range of 10 μm from a front surface portion of the resin layer in the thickness direction and an area ratio of the sea part to a portion in a range of 10 μm from a rear surface portion in the thickness direction.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09335672&OS=09335672&RS=09335672
owner: FUJI XEROX CO., LTD.
number: 09335672
owner_city: Tokyo
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20150205
---
This application is based on and claims priority under 35 USC 119 from Japanese Patent Application No. 2014 193530 filed Sep. 24 2014.

The present invention relates to a tubular member a tubular member unit an intermediate transfer member and an image forming apparatus.

a resin layer containing a thermoplastic resin and a conductive material and the resin layer forming a sea part in which the thermoplastic resin becomes a matrix phase 

wherein an area ratio of the sea part to a portion in a range of 5 m respectively to a front surface portion side and a rear surface portion side with a central portion of the resin layer in a thickness direction as a center is greater by 3 to 15 than a greater area ratio between an area ratio of the sea part to a portion in a range of 10 m from a front surface portion of the resin layer in the thickness direction and an area ratio of the sea part to a portion in a range of 10 m from a rear surface portion in the thickness direction.

As illustrated in a tubular member hereinafter referred to as an endless belt according to the embodiment is formed to be an endless shape and is configured to have a resin layer hereinafter referred to as a specific resin layer containing a thermoplastic resin and a conductive material. Further illustrates an example in which the endless belt is configured with a single layer member of a specific resin layer. Also an area ratio of the sea part to a portion in a range of 5 m respectively to a front surface portion side and the rear surface portion side with the central portion of the resin layer in the thickness direction as a center is greater by 3 to 15 hereinafter referred to as a specific structure than a greater value of the area ratios of the sea parts to portions in a thickness range of 10 m respectively from the front surface portion and the rear surface portion of the resin layer.

Here the sea part refers to a phase of the thermoplastic resin that becomes a matrix phase of the endless belt. In addition the front surface portion and the rear surface portion respectively refer to the outermost surface and the innermost surface of the endless belt.

In addition in the specific structure the area ratio of the sea part to a portion in the range of 5 m respectively to the front surface portion side and the rear surface portion side with the central portion in the thickness direction of the resin layer as a center is greater preferably by 4.0 to 10 and more preferably by 5.0 to 6.5 than a greater value of the area ratios of the sea parts to portions in a thickness range of 10 m respectively from the front surface portion and the rear surface portion of the resin layer.

In the related art a tubular member configured with a resin layer obtained by dispersing a conductive material such as carbon black in a thermoplastic resin has been known. However in the tubular member of this configuration an area fine white spot in which a toner image is deleted in an output image may be formed. It is considered that the phenomenon in which the fine white spot is formed is caused by electrons that inflow from a member contacting the rear surface side of the tubular member such as a transfer unit to the tubular member. More specifically if electrons that inflow to the tubular member flow through the inside portion of the tubular member to reach the front surface portion the positive charges and the electrons pair annihilate in the front surface portion of the tubular member so that a current path from the rear surface portion to the front surface portion of the tubular member is formed the electric resistance decreases and thus the discharge current increases. It is considered that the fine white spot is formed by the increase of the discharge current. In addition the fine white spot caused by the increase of the discharge current tends to be more conspicuous as the applied voltage increases for reasons such as high processing speed.

In order to prevent the formation of the fine white spot the dispersibility of the conductive material in the front surface portion or the rear surface portion may be enhanced. Currently there are various methods of manufacturing a specific resin layer but a certain amount of conductive material is needed in order to simply enhance the dispersibility of the conductive material. Then since the overall volume resistivity of the specific resin layer decreases the current path from the rear surface portion to the front surface portion of the tubular member may be easily formed and since the electric resistance easily decreases the discharge current easily increases so that the fine white spot is formed again.

On the contrary the specific resin layer containing the thermoplastic resin and the conductive material is applied to the endless belt according to the exemplary embodiment to form the specific structure and the stability of the electric resistance becomes excellent. As a result the formation of the fine white spot is prevented.

The endless belt is obtained by kneading the thermoplastic resin and the conductive material and molding an obtained thermoplastic resin composition. At the time of the kneading and forming the thermoplastic resin composition is melted and is cooled thereafter.

Here at the time of the cooling the cooling speed of the front surface portion or the rear surface portion of the endless belt is different from the cooling speed of the central portion. Specifically the cooling speed of the front surface portion or the rear surface portion is faster than that of the central portion. Therefore the front surface portion or the rear surface portion is cooled and solidified in a state in which the conductive material is sufficiently dispersed in the thermoplastic resin but at this point the thermoplastic resin composition in the central portion is still in a molten state and thus the conductive material is movable in the thermoplastic resin. Then it is considered that the conductive material aggregates with each other. As a result a specific structure in which the conductive material aggregates in the central portion and an island part is formed is obtained. In the specific structure while the volume resistivity of the endless belt is in a certain high state level the dispersibility of the conductive material in the front surface portion and the rear surface portion may be caused to be higher than that of the central portion. Therefore it is considered that the decrease of the resistivity in the endless belt according to the exemplary embodiment is prevented even if the overall volume resistivity is high.

Also if the endless belt according to the exemplary embodiment is applied to an endless belt for an image forming apparatus it is possible to obtain an image forming apparatus in which an image defect such as a fine white spot caused by repetitive use the change of electric resistance of the endless belt accompanying the change of the applied voltage or environmental variation is prevented.

Hereinafter configuration materials or characteristics of the endless belt according to the exemplary embodiment are described.

The endless belt according to the exemplary embodiment is configured to contain a thermoplastic resin a conductive material and if necessary other additives.

Examples of the thermoplastic resin include a polyester resin for example a polybutylene terephthalate resin and a polyethylene naphthalate resin a polyamide resin a polycarbonate resin a polysulfone resin a polyether sulfone resin a polyphenylene sulfide resin a polyimide resin a polyamideimide resin or a polyetherimide resin.

Among them as the thermoplastic resin for example a polyamide resin a polyetherimide resin and a polyphenylene sulfide resin are preferable and a polyamide resin is more preferable. If these resins are applied as the thermoplastic resin the mechanical strength of the endless belt increases and the deformation such as elongation or shrinkage is easily suppressed. As a result if the endless belt is applied as the intermediate transfer member the generation of the color shift is easy suppressed. In addition the thermoplastic resins may be used singly or two or more types thereof may be used in combination.

Examples of the polyamide resin include an aromatic polyamide resin an aliphatic polyamide resin and the like. Among them in view of heat resistance and melt fluidity the aromatic polyamide resin is preferable and the semi aromatic polyamide resin is more preferable.

The semi aromatic polyamide resin is a semi aromatic polyamide resin that at least includes a repeating unit structure derived from an aromatic dicarboxylic acid compound and an aliphatic diamine compound. Specifically examples of the semi aromatic polyamide resin include a polycondensate of the aromatic dicarboxylic acid compound and the aliphatic diamine compound.

An aromatic dicarboxylic acid compound is a dicarboxylic acid compound including an aromatic ring for example a benzene ring a naphthalene ring and a biphenyl ring . Specific examples of the aromatic dicarboxylic acid compound include a terephthalic acid an isophthalic acid 2 6 naphthalene dicarboxylate 2 7 naphthalene dicarboxylate 1 4 naphthalene dicarboxylate 1 4 phenylene dioxydiacetate 1 3 phenylene dioxydiacetate dibenzoic acid 4 4 oxydibenzoate diphenylmethane 4 4 dicarboxylate diphenyl sulfone 4 4 dicarboxylate and 4 4 biphenylcarboxylate. Among these for example in view of economic efficiency and performance of polyamide terephthalic acid isophthalic acid and 2 6 naphthalene dicarboxylate are preferable and terephthalic acid is more preferable.

Examples of the aliphatic diamine include 9 to 12 aliphatic diamines and specific examples include straight chain aliphatic alkylene diamine for example 1 9 nonanediamine 1 10 decanediamine 1 11 undecanediamine and 1 12 dodecanediamine branched chain aliphatic alkylene diamine for example 2 2 4 trimethyl 1 6 hexanediamine 2 4 4 trimethyl 1 6 hexanediamine 2 4 diethyl 1 6 hexanediamine 2 2 dimethyl 1 7 heptanediamine 2 3 dimethyl 1 7 heptanediamine 2 4 dimethyl 1 7 heptanediamine 2 5 dimethyl 1 7 heptanediamine 2 methyl 1 8 octanediamine 3 methyl 1 8 octanediamine 4 methyl 1 8 octanediamine 1 3 dimethyl 1 8 octanediamine 1 4 dimethyl 1 8 octanediamine 2 4 dimethyl 1 8 octanediamine 3 4 dimethyl 1 8 octanediamine 4 5 dimethyl 1 8 octanediamine 2 2 dimethyl 1 8 octanediamine 3 3 dimethyl 1 8 octanediamine 4 4 dimethyl 1 8 octanediamine and 5 methyl 1 9 nonanediamine and cycloaliphatic alkylene diamine for example 1 amino 3 aminomethyl 3 5 5 trimethyl cyclohexane and 1 amino 3 aminomethyl 2 5 6 trimethyl cyclohexane .

Among these for example in view of performance of polyamide or environmental protection 1 10 decanediamine decamethylene diamine and 1 11 undecanediamine are preferable and 1 10 decanediamine decamethylene diamine is more preferable.

Examples of the semi aromatic polyamide resin include polycondensate of an aromatic dicarboxylic acid compound and an aliphatic diamine compound but the semi aromatic polyamide resin may be obtained by polymerizing another monomer with the polycondensate for example a polyamide polyether block copolymer without deteriorating the function thereof.

Here in the polyamide polyether block copolymer examples of polyether constituting a polyether chain include polyalkyleneglycol containing alkylene having 2 to 6 carbon atoms preferably 2 to 4 carbon atoms and specific examples thereof include polytetramethylene glycol polytetramethylene ether glycol polyethylene glycol polypropylene glycol and copolymers thereof for example polyethylene oxide polypropylene oxide block copolymer .

For example a commercial product of the semi aromatic polyamide resin is F2001 manufactured by Daicel Evonik Ltd.

For example the polyetherimide resin may be obtained by polymerization reaction between a dicarboxylic acid dianhydride containing an ether linkage and a diamine. That is examples of the polyetherimide resin include a polyetherimide resin at least having a repeating unit structure derived from a dicarboxylic acid dianhydride containing an ether linkage and a diamine.

Examples of the dicarboxylic acid dianhydride having an ether linkage include 2 2 bis 4 3 4 dicarboxyphenoxy phenyl propane dianhydride 4 4 bis 3 4 dicarboxyphenoxy diphenyl ether dianhydride 4 4 bis 3 4 dicarboxyphenoxy diphenylsulfide dianhydride 4 4 bis 3 4 dicarboxyphenoxy benzophenone dianhydride 4 4 bis 3 4 dicarboxyphenoxy diphenylsulfone dianhydride 2 2 bis 4 2 3 dicarboxyphenoxy phenyl propane dianhydride 4 4 bis 2 3 dicarboxyphenoxy diphenyl ether dianhydride 4 4 bis 2 3 dicarboxyphenoxy diphenylsulfide dianhydride 4 4 bis 2 3 dicarboxyphenoxy benzophenone dianhydride 4 4 bis 2 3 dicarboxyphenoxy diphenylsulfone dianhydride 4 2 3 dicarboxyphenoxy 4 3 4 dicarboxyphenoxy diphenyl 2 2 propane dianhydride 4 2 3 dicarboxyphenoxy 4 3 4 dicarboxyphenoxy diphenyl ether dianhydride 4 2 3 dicarboxyphenoxy 4 3 4 dicarboxyphenoxy diphenyl sulfide dianhydride 4 2 3 dicarboxyphenoxy 4 3 4 dicarboxyphenoxy benzophe none dianhydride and 4 2 3 dicarboxyphenoxy 4 3 4 dicarboxyphenoxy diphenyl sulfone dianhydride. The dicarboxylic acid dianhydride may be used singly or two or more types thereof may be used in combination.

Examples of the diamine include aliphatic diamine alicyclic diamine aromatic diamine and aromatic diamine containing a heterocyclic ring.

Diamine is not particularly limited as long as it is a diamine compound having two amino groups in a molecular structure.

Examples of the diamine include aromatic diamine such as p phenylenediamine m phenylenediamine 4 4 diaminodiphenylmethane 4 4 diaminodiphenylethane 4 4 diaminodiphenylether 4 4 diaminodiphenylsulfide 4 4 diaminodiphenylsulfone 1 5 diaminonaphthalene 3 3 dimethyl 4 4 diaminobiphenyl 5 amino 1 4 aminophenyl 1 3 3 trimethylindane 6 amino 1 4 aminophenyl 1 3 3 trimethylindane 4 4 diaminobenzanilide 3 5 diamino 3 trifluoromethylbenzanilide 3 5 diamino 4 trifluoromethylbenzanilide 3 4 diaminodiphenylether 2 7 diaminofluorene 2 2 bis 4 aminophenyl hexafluoropropane 4 4 methylene bis 2 chloroaniline 2 2 5 5 tetrachloro 4 4 diaminobiphenyl 2 2 dichloro 4 4 diamino 5 5 dimethoxybiphenyl 3 3 dimethoxy 4 4 diaminobiphenyl 4 4 diamino 2 2 bis trifluoromethyl biphenyl 2 2 bis 4 4 aminophenoxy phenyl propane 2 2 bis 4 4 aminophenoxy phenyl hexafluoropropane 1 4 bis 4 aminophenoxy benzene 4 4 bis 4 aminophenoxy biphenyl 1 3 bis 4 aminophenoxy benzene 9 9 bis 4 aminophenyl fluorene 4 4 p phenyleneisopropylidene bisaniline 4 4 m phenyleneisopropylidene bisaniline 2 2 bis 4 4 amino 2 trifluoromethylphenoxy phenyl hexafluoropropane and 4 4 bis 4 4 amino 2 trifluoromethyl phenoxy octafluorobiphenyl aromatic diamine having two amino groups bonded to an aromatic ring such as diaminotetraphenylthiophene and a hetero atom other than a nitrogen atom of the amino groups and aliphatic diamine or alicyclic diamine such as 1 1 metaxylilenediamine 1 3 propanediamine tetramethylenediamine pentamethylenediamine octamethylenediamine nonamethylenediamine 4 4 diaminoheptamethylenediamine 1 4 diaminocyclohexane isophorone diamine tetrahydrodicyclopentadienylenediamine hexahydro 4 7 methanoindanylenedimethylenediamine tricyclo 6 2 1 0 undecylenedimethylenediamine and 4 4 methylenebis cyclohexylamine . The diamine may be used singly or two or more types thereof may be used in combination.

For example commercial products of the polyetherimide resin are ULTEM 1000 series and 5000 series and EXTEM VH1003 manufactured by Saudi Basic Industries Corporation SABIC .

For example the polyphenylene sulfide resin is a resin having a straight chain structure in which benzene rings and sulfur atoms are alternately bonded. Generally for example the polyphenylene sulfide resin is a resin that may be obtained by a method of polycondensating p dichlorobenzene and sodium sulfide at a high temperature of 200 C. to 290 C. under a high pressure in an amide polar solvent mainly NMP .

For example commercial products of the polyphenylene sulfide resin are TORELINA T1881 manufactured by Toray Industries Inc. and FORTRON 0220C9 manufactured by Polyplastics Co. Ltd. .

As the thermoplastic resin any one of crystalline thermoplastic resins and amorphous thermoplastic resins may be used singly or two or more types thereof may be used in combination.

In addition the term crystalline means stepwisely changing endothermic quantity in differential scanning calorimetry DSC and having a clear endothermic peak. Specifically it means that the half value width of the endothermic peak when the measurement is performed at a temperature rising rate of 10 C. min is within 10 C. Accordingly the thermoplastic resin having the half value width within 10 C. or the thermoplastic resin in which the endothermic peak is clearly acknowledged means the crystalline thermoplastic resin.

Meanwhile the term amorphous means not stepwisely changing endothermic quantity in differential scanning calorimetry DSC and not having a clear endothermic peak. Specifically it means that the half value width of the endothermic peak when the measurement is performed at a temperature rising rate of 10 C. min exceeds 10 C. Accordingly the thermoplastic resin in which the half value width exceeds 10 C. or the thermoplastic resin in which the endothermic peak is not clearly acknowledged means the amorphous thermoplastic resin.

Here the amorphous thermoplastic resin and the crystalline thermoplastic resin may be used in combination. In this case it is preferable to use the polyetherimide resin and the polyamide resin in combination. This is because the mutual compatibility is good.

In addition it is considered that the compatibility between the polyetherimide resin and the polyamide resin is good since the intermolecular attraction between the imide bond and the amide bond respectively included in the polyetherimide resin and the polyamide resin easily works and the interface defect phase separation is not likely to occur when both are mixed the glass transition temperatures thereof are respectively from 270 C. to 350 C. and from 300 C. to 400 C. so that the temperature ranges thereof are overlapped and both melt at the process temperature 300 C. or higher . Therefore the specific resin layer has a good film characteristic.

The crystallization degree of the resin obtained by combining mixing and melting the amorphous thermoplastic resin and the crystalline thermoplastic resin may be for example 30 or greater preferably 35 or greater and more preferably 40 or greater.

If the crystallization degree is 30 or greater there is a tendency that aggregation of the conductive material in the central portion is easily formed. In addition it is considered that as the crystallization degree is lower the formation of the aggregate of the conductive material is prevented.

The crystallization degree is determined by the X ray diffraction measurement. Specifically the measurement is performed by using an X ray diffractometer manufactured by Rigaku Corporation and peak separation analysis in the obtained data is performed by using analysis software manufactured by Bruker Corporation and the crystallization degree may be calculated from the crystalline peak area and the amorphous peak area after the peak separation.

Examples of the conductive material include carbon black metal such as aluminum and nickel metallic oxide such as yttrium oxide and tin oxide an ion conductive substance of potassium titanate and potassium chloride a conductive polymer such as polyaniline polypyrrole polysulfone and polyacetylene. Among them in view of the conductivity and economic efficiency carbon black is preferable.

Examples of the carbon black include Ketjen black oil furnace black channel black acetylene black and carbon black having an oxidized surface hereinafter referred to as surface treated carbon black . Among them in view of the electric resistance stability with time surface treated carbon black is preferable.

For example the surface treated carbon black may be obtained by applying a carboxyl group a quinine group a lactone group a hydroxyl group and the like to the surface thereof.

For example the blending amount of the conductive material is preferably from 10 parts by weight to 30 parts by weight and more preferably from 12 parts by weight to 25 parts by weight with respect to 100 parts by weight of the thermoplastic resin.

If the content of the conductive material is within the above range the conductive material on the specific resin layer endless belt becomes highly dense at the conductive point discharge energies received on the surface of the specific resin layer endless belt are easily dispersed and thus the deterioration is prevented.

If the content of the conductive material is within the above range the endless belt may easily obtain target conductivity and the conductive point with high density may be easily formed in the specific resin layer endless belt .

Examples of other additives include antioxidant for preventing the thermal deterioration of the specific resin layer surfactant for enhancing the fluidity if an aliphatic polyamide resin is used heat resistant antiaging agent and well known additives which are blended to the endless belt of the image forming apparatus.

With respect to the endless belt specific resin layer according to the exemplary embodiment in a room temperature and normal humidity environment temperature at 22 C. and humidity at 55 RH the surface resistivity measured by applying a voltage of 100 V is preferably from 7 log square to 13 log square. Particularly when the endless belt is applied as an intermediate transfer belt the surface resistivity is preferably from 8 log square to 12 log square and when the endless belt is applied as a recording medium conveying transfer belt the surface resistivity is preferably from 9 log square to 13 log square.

In addition the surface resistivity is a measurement value measured by applying 100 V of a voltage in a room temperature and normal humidity environment temperature at 22 C. and humidity at 55 RH .

In the endless belt specific resin layer according to the exemplary embodiment a difference between surface resistivity measured by applying 100 V of a voltage in a room temperature and normal humidity environment temperature at 22 C. and humidity at 55 RH and surface resistivity measured by applying 1 000 V of a voltage in a room temperature and normal humidity environment temperature at 22 C. and humidity at 55 RH is preferably 1.0 log square or less.

In the endless belt specific resin layer according to the exemplary embodiment a difference between surface resistivity measured by applying 100 V of a voltage in a low temperature and low humidity environment temperature at 10 C. and humidity at 10 RH and surface resistivity measured by applying 100 V of a voltage in a high temperature and high humidity environment temperature at 30 C. and humidity at 85 RH is preferably 1.0 log square or less.

Here with respect to the surface resistivity conforming to JIS K 6911 1995 a circular electrode UR Probe for HIRESTA IP manufactured by Mitsubishi Chemical Corporation 16 mm of external diameter of cylindrical electrode and 30 mm of internal diameter and 40 mm of external diameter of ring shaped electrode is used a measurement object is placed on an insulation plate an objective voltage is applied under the objective environment and a current value flowing from the external diameter to the internal diameter after 5 seconds from the application is measured by using a microammeter R8340A manufactured by Advantest Corporation and thus the surface resistivity is obtained from the surface resistance values obtained from the current value.

Hereinafter a method of manufacturing the endless belt according to the exemplary embodiment is described.

First for example the thermoplastic resin the conductive material and if necessary other additives in respective objective blending amounts are kneaded and mixed to obtain pellets.

Next the obtained pellets are extruded into a cylindrical shape by using an extruder and are solidified by cooling to obtain a cylindrical molded article. It is possible to control the area ratio of the front surface portion and the rear surface portion of the sea part to the central portion of the sea part by controlling the temperature at the time of extrusion and the temperature at the time of solidification by cooling.

Also the obtained cylindrical molded article is cut by an objective width to obtain the endless belt .

The aforementioned endless belt according to the exemplary embodiment is described to be configured with a single layer member of a specific resin layer. However the endless belt may be configured with a laminate of two or more layers as long as the endless belt has the specific resin layer.

Specifically for example the endless belt according to the exemplary embodiment is configured with a laminate of a base material layer and a surface layer surface releasing layer on an outer peripheral surface of the base material layer and the specific resin layer may be applied as at least one of the base material layer and the surface layer. However if the specific resin layer is applied as the surface layer a release agent for example fluorine compound fluorine resin or particles thereof may be blended.

An intermediate layer for example elastic layer may be provided between the base material layer and the surface layer or the base material layer itself may be configured with a laminate of two or more layers.

The endless belt according to the exemplary embodiment is applied for example to a belt for an image forming apparatus for example intermediate transfer belt and recording medium conveying transfer belt .

As illustrated in a tubular member unit according to the exemplary embodiment hereinafter referred to as an endless belt unit includes the endless belt according to the exemplary embodiment. For example the endless belt is suspended hereinafter also referred to as stretches with a tension applied by a driving roll and a driven roll which are positioned to face each other.

Here if the endless belt is applied as an intermediate transfer member as rolls for stretching the endless belt the endless belt unit according to the exemplary embodiment includes a roll for primarily transferring a toner image on a surface of a photoreceptor image holding member to the endless belt and a roll for secondarily transferring the toner image transferred to the endless belt to a recording medium.

In addition the number of rolls that stretch the endless belt is not limited and the rolls may be arranged according to the usage pattern. The endless belt unit according to the exemplary embodiment is incorporated into an apparatus to be used and the endless belt rotates in a state of being stretched in response to the rotation of the driving roll and the driven roll .

The image forming apparatus according to the exemplary embodiment includes an image holding member a charging unit that charges a surface of the image holding member a latent image forming unit that forms a latent image on the surface of the image holding member a development unit that develops the latent image with toner to form a toner image a transfer unit that transfers the toner image on a recording medium and a fixing unit that fixes the toner image on the recording medium and the transfer unit includes an endless belt according to the exemplary embodiment.

Specifically in the image forming apparatus according to the exemplary embodiment for example the transfer unit includes an intermediate transfer member a primary transfer unit that primarily transfers a toner image formed on the image holding member to the intermediate transfer member and a secondary transfer unit that secondarily transfers the toner image transferred to the intermediate transfer member to the recording medium and includes the endless belt according to the exemplary embodiment as the intermediate transfer member.

In addition the image forming apparatus according to the exemplary embodiment includes for example a conveying transfer member conveying transfer belt that causes a sheet transfer member to convey the recording medium and the transfer unit that transfers the toner image formed on the image holding member to the recording medium transferred by the sheet transfer member and includes the endless belt according to the exemplary embodiment as a recording medium transfer member.

Examples of the image forming apparatus according to the exemplary embodiment include a well known monocolor image forming apparatus that only contains a monochrome toner in a developing device a color image forming apparatus that sequentially repeats primary transfer of a toner image held in an image holding member to an intermediate transfer member and a tandem type color image forming apparatus that arranges plural image holding members including developer units for various colors on the intermediate transfer member in series.

Hereinafter the image forming apparatus according to the exemplary embodiment is described with reference to the drawings.

As illustrated in an image forming apparatus according to the exemplary embodiment is a so called tandem type and charging devices to exposure devices to developing devices and primary transfer devices primary transfer rolls to and image holding member cleaning devices to are arranged around four image holding members to formed of electrophotographic photoreceptors sequentially along the rotation direction thereof. Further in order to remove residual potentials remaining on the surfaces of the image holding members to after transfer an erasing device may be included.

While receiving tension an intermediate transfer belt is supported by supporting rolls to a driving roll and a counter roll to form a tubular member unit . By these supporting rolls to the driving roll and the counter roll the intermediate transfer belt may cause the image holding members to and the primary transfer rolls to to move in the arrow A direction while contacting the surfaces of the image holding members to . Portions in which the primary transfer rolls to contact the image holding members to via the intermediate transfer belt become primary transfer portions and the primary transfer voltage is applied to contact portions between the image holding members to and the primary transfer rolls to

As a secondary transfer device the counter roll and a secondary transfer roll are arranged to face each other via the intermediate transfer belt and a secondary transfer belt . A recording medium such as paper moves in an arrow B direction in an area interposed between the intermediate transfer belt and the secondary transfer roll while contacting the surface of the intermediate transfer belt and then passes through a fixing device . A portion in which the secondary transfer roll contacts the counter roll via the intermediate transfer belt and the secondary transfer belt becomes a secondary transfer portion and thus a secondary transfer voltage is applied to a contact portion between the secondary transfer roll and the counter roll . Further intermediate transfer belt cleaning devices and are arranged so as to contact the intermediate transfer belt after transfer.

In the multiple color image forming apparatus having the configuration described above an image holding member rotates in an arrow C direction the surface thereof is charged by a charging device and then an electrostatic latent image for a first color is formed by the exposure device of laser light or the like. By the developing device accommodating toner corresponding to the color the formed electrostatic latent image is developed visualized with toner to form a toner image. In addition toner for example yellow magenta cyan and black corresponding to electrostatic latent images for the respective colors is accommodated in the developing devices and

When the toner image formed on the image holding member passes through the primary transfer portion the toner image is electrostatically transferred to the intermediate transfer belt by the primary transfer roll primary transfer . Thereafter toner images for second third and fourth colors are primarily transferred to the intermediate transfer belt that holds the toner image for the first color by the primary transfer rolls to in a sequentially superimposed manner.

The multiple toner images formed on the intermediate transfer belt are collectively and electrostatically transferred to the recording medium when passing through the secondary transfer portion. The recording medium to which the toner images transferred is conveyed to the fixing device is subjected to a fixing process by at least one of heating and pressing and is discharged to the outside of the apparatus.

In the image holding members to after the primary transfer residual toner is removed by the image holding member cleaning devices to . Meanwhile in the intermediate transfer belt after the secondary transfer residual toner is removed by the intermediate transfer belt cleaning devices and and the intermediate transfer belt prepares for the next image forming process.

A well known electrophotographic photoreceptor is widely used as the image holding members to . As the electrophotographic photoreceptor an inorganic photoreceptor in which the photosensitive layer is configured with an inorganic material or an organic photoreceptor in which the photosensitive layer is configured with an organic material is used. With respect to the organic photoreceptor a function separation type organic photoreceptor obtained by stacking a charge generating layer that generates electric charges by exposure and an electric charge transporting layer that transports the electric charges or a single layer type organic photoreceptor that accomplishes a function of generating electric charges and a function of transporting electric charges is preferably used. Also with respect to the inorganic photoreceptor a photoreceptor in which a photosensitive layer is configured with amorphous silicon is appropriately used.

In addition the formation of the image holding member is not particularly limited. For example well known shapes such as a cylindrical drum shape a sheet shape and a plate shape are employed.

The charging devices to are not particularly limited. For example well known chargers such as contact type chargers using conductive here the term conductive in a charging device means that for example volume resistivity is less than 10 cm or semiconductive here the semiconductive in a charging device means that for example volume resistivity is 10to 10 cm rolls brushes films or rubber blades scorotron chargers that use corona discharges or corotron chargers are widely applied. Among these the contact type charger is preferable.

The charging devices to generally apply direct currents to the image holding members to but may further apply alternate currents in an superimposed manner.

The exposure devices to are not particularly limited. However for example as the exposure devices to well known exposure devices such as an optical device that may expose according to an image data on the surfaces of the image holding members to with light from a light source such as semiconductor laser light light emitting diode LED light or liquid crystal shutter or with light transmitted from the light sources via a polygon mirror are widely applied.

The developing devices and are selected according to the purpose. For example a well known developing device that develops a single component developer or a two component developer by using a brush a roll or the like on a contact or contactless manner may be used.

The primary transfer rolls to may have a single layer structure or a multiple layer structure. For example in the case of the single layer structure the primary transfer rolls to are configured with rolls in which proper quantities of conductive particles such as carbon black are blended with foamed or non foamed silicone rubber urethane rubber or EPDM.

The image holding member cleaning devices to are provided to remove residual toner attached to the surfaces of the image holding members to after the primary transfer process brush cleaning or roll cleaning may be performed instead of using other than cleaning blade. Among these a cleaning blade is preferably used. In addition as a material of the cleaning blade urethane rubber neoprene rubber or silicone rubber may be used.

A layer structure of the secondary transfer roll is not particularly limited. For example in the case of the three layer structure the secondary transfer roll is configured with a core layer an intermediate layer and a coating layer that covers a front surface thereof. A core layer is configured with a foaming member of silicone rubber urethane rubber EPDM or the like in which conductive particles are dispersed and an intermediate layer is configured with a non foaming member thereof. As a material of the coating layer a tetrafluoroethylene hexafluoropropylene copolymer or a perfluoroalkoxy resin may be used. The volume resistivity of the secondary transfer roll is preferably 10 cm or less. In addition the secondary transfer roll may have a two layer structure except for the intermediate layer.

The counter roll forms a counter electrode of the secondary transfer roll . The layer structure of the counter roll may be a single layer structure or a multiple layer structure. For example in the case of the single layer structure the counter roll is configured with a roll in which proper quantities of conductive particles such as carbon black are blended with silicone rubber urethane rubber or EPDM. In the case of the two layer structure the counter roll is configured with a roll obtained by covering an outer peripheral surface of an elastic layer configured with the rubber materials described above with a high resistance layer.

A voltage of 1 kV to 6 kV is generally applied to shafts of the counter roll and the secondary transfer roll . Instead of the application of the voltage to the shaft of the counter roll a voltage may be applied to an electrode member with excellent electric conductivity that comes into contact with the counter roll and the secondary transfer roll . As the electrode member a metal roll a conductive rubber roll a conductive brush a metal plate or a conductive resin plate or the like may be used.

For example as the fixing device well known fusers such as a heating roll fixing device a pressure roll fixing device and a flush fixing device are widely applied.

As the intermediate transfer belt cleaning devices and in addition to the cleaning blade brush cleaning roll cleaning and the like may be used and among them the cleaning blade is preferably used. In addition as the material of the cleaning blade urethane rubber neoprene rubber silicone rubber or the like may be used.

Hereinafter the invention is described in detail with reference to examples. However the invention is not limited thereto.

As the crystalline thermoplastic resin 100 parts by weight of a semi aromatic polyamide resin F2001 manufactured by Daicel Evonik Ltd. is melted in a twin screw extruding melting kneader twin screw melting kneading extruder L D60 manufactured by Parker corporation Inc. 8 parts by weight of carbon black Monark 880 manufactured by Cabot Corporation is supplied as the conductive material in the molten resin by using a side feeder from a side of the kneader the resultant is molten kneaded the molten kneaded material is input to a water tank and solidified by cooling and the solidified material is cut by an objective size to obtain mixed resin pellets in which carbon black is blended.

The obtained mixed resin pellets are inserted to a single screw melting extruder L D24 melting extruding apparatus manufactured by Mitsuba MFG. Co. Ltd. 310 C. of heating temperature is melted and extruded from a gap between a mold die set to 300 C. and a nipple and is cooled down by causing an outer surface of the cylindrical inner sizing die 30 C. of temperature to bring into contact with an inner peripheral surface of the molten resin to obtain an endless belt of Example 1 having 160 mm of an external diameter 232 mm of a width and 120 m of an average thickness.

Endless belts of Examples 2 to 14 and Comparative Examples 1 and 2 are manufactured in the same manner as in Example 1 except that materials presented in Table 1 are used.

An endless belt of Example 15 is manufactured in the same manner as in Example 7 except that a heating temperature of the single screw melting extruder is 340 C. and a temperature of a mold die is 330 C.

An endless belt of Example 16 is manufactured in the same manner as in Example 7 except that a heating temperature of the single screw melting extruder is 290 C. and a temperature of a mold die is 280 C.

With respect to endless belts obtained in the respective examples each area ratio of sea parts thermoplastic resin parts in a range of 10 m respectively from a front surface portion and a rear surface portion in a thickness direction and in a range of 5 m with a central portion in a thickness direction as a center is measured in a sequence below and is presented in Table 1.

First the endless belts are cut in an axial direction with a cutter knife or the like in a rectangular strip shape of about 1 mm 8 mm and then are embedded with an epoxy resin. After solidification cross section samples are manufactured with a microtome provided with a diamond knife. For example as the microtome ultramicrotome UCT manufactured by Leica Microsystems Ltd. may be used.

Specifically in positions of 5 mm from one end and the other end of the endless belt in the axial direction and a position of the central portion of the endless belt in the axial direction with respect to 4 portions for each 90 in a circumferential direction 4 3 12 portions in total the cross section samples are manufactured.

The front surface portions the rear surface portions and the central portions of the respective obtained cross section samples are observed in the magnification of 5000 times by using JSM 6700F manufactured by JEOL Ltd.

Subsequently an area ratio of the thermoplastic resin of which a sea part is 10 m in vertical and is a visual width in horizontal is calculated with image processing software and an average value of all samples is calculated. In addition when contrast is unclear a contrast intensifying process or a smoothing process is appropriately performed. As the image processing software for example freeware such as ImageJ may be used.

If there is unevenness in the front surface portion and the rear surface portion in an observation visual field the measurement target is to the height of the lowest concave portion in the cross section. That is portions higher than the lowest concave portion are out of the measurement target. In addition when there is no unevenness in the front surface portion and the rear surface portion in the observation visual field all areas from the front surface portion and the rear surface portion to 10 m may be the measurement target.

In addition when there is unevenness in the front surface portion and the rear surface portion in the observation visual field the measurement of the central portion is performed such that a range of 5 m from the center of the lowest concave portion in the cross sections of the front surface portion and the rear surface portion which are measurement targets as described above respectively to the front surface portion and the rear surface portion side becomes a measurement target. In addition when there is no unevenness in the front surface portion and the rear surface portion in the observation visual field a range of 5 m from the center between the front surface portion and the rear surface portion respectively to the front surface portion and the rear surface portion side may be a measurement target.

With respect to the endless belts obtained in respective examples before an actual machine test before test run and after the test after test run surface resistivity log square is measured in an environment of a temperature at 22 C. and humidity of 55 RH by using Advantest microammeter UR probe 100 V 2 kg of load 10 seconds and the electric resistance stability is estimated with criteria below. Obtained estimation results are described in Table 1.

The endless belts obtained in the respective examples are mounted on an image forming apparatus C2250 manufactured by Fuji Xerox Co. Ltd. as intermediate transfer belts 50 000 sheets of images are continuously printed in a low temperature and low humidity environment 10 C. 10 RH environment in which electric discharge easily occurs accompanied by paper peeling on surface of intermediate transfer belt at the time of transfer .

A Difference of surface resistivity before and after actual machine test is less than 0.2 log square 

B Difference of surface resistivity before and after actual machine test is 0.2 log square or greater and less than 0.5 log square 

C Difference of surface resistivity before and after actual machine test is 0.5 log square or greater and less than 1.0 log square 

D Difference of surface resistivity before and after actual machine test is 1.0 log l square or greater

From the above results it is found that the examples have excellent electric resistance stability compared with the comparative examples.

Regarding to the blending amount of the conductive material Examples 2 to 11 in which the blending amount of the conductive material is 10 parts by weight to 30 parts by weight with respect to 100 parts by weight of the thermoplastic resins have excellent electric resistance stability compared with Examples 1 and 12 in which the blending amount of the conductive material is less than 10 parts by weight or exceeds 30 parts by weight with respect to 100 parts by weight of the thermoplastic resins.

Further Examples 4 to 9 in which the blending amount of the conductive material is from 12 parts by weight to 25 parts by weight with respect to 100 parts by weight of the thermoplastic resins have excellent electric resistance stability compared with Examples 2 3 10 and 11 in which the blending amount of the conductive material is 10 parts by weight or greater and less than 12 parts by weight or exceeds 25 parts by weight and is 30 parts by weight or less with respect to 100 parts by weight of the thermoplastic resins.

In addition it is found that with respect to Examples 7 15 and 16 having the same composition the area ratios of the sea parts are controlled by the temperature condition at the time of manufacturing.

The foregoing description of the exemplary embodiments of the present invention has been provided for the purposes of illustration and description. It is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise forms disclosed. Obviously many modifications and variations will be apparent to practitioners skilled in the art. The embodiments were chosen and described in order to best explain the principles of the invention and its practical applications thereby enabling others skilled in the art to understand the invention for various embodiments and with the various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated. It is intended that the scope of the invention be defined by the following claims and their equivalents.

