---

title: Systems and methods of monitoring waste
abstract: Systems, methods, and computer-readable media are disclosed for monitoring waste. Example methods may include monitoring a waste compartment of a waste container, the waste compartment configured to receive waste items, and determining a waste level of waste items in the waste compartment. Methods may include identifying a waste haul threshold indicative of a predetermined waste level at which a waste haul notification is triggered, determining that the waste level meets the waste haul threshold, and triggering the waste haul notification indicating that the waste container is to be emptied based at least in part on the waste level.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09342884&OS=09342884&RS=09342884
owner: Cox Enterprises, Inc.
number: 09342884
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150428
---
Waste hauling and pickups are generally scheduled on a regular basis regardless of the amount or fill level of waste in a waste container. Generally for each such pickup the customer is charged for pickup and disposal of a full waste container e.g. for 40 cubic yards of waste regardless of the amount or volume of waste actually present in the container. Additionally at times users and or third parties may dump restricted or illegal waste products into a dumpster which may result in fines or penalties levied against the owner of the waste container. In some instances waste containers may be overfilled which can also result in fines and or penalties. Accordingly systems and methods for monitoring waste may be desired.

In the following description numerous specific details are set forth. However it should be understood that embodiments of the present disclosure may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known methods structures and techniques have not been shown in detail in order not to obscure an understanding of this description. References to one embodiment an embodiment example embodiment various embodiments and so forth indicate that the embodiment s of the present disclosure so described may include a particular feature structure or characteristic but not every embodiment necessarily includes the particular feature structure or characteristic. Furthermore the repeated use of the phrase in one embodiment does not necessarily refer to the same embodiment although it may.

As used herein unless otherwise specified the use of the ordinal adjectives first second third etc. to describe a common object merely indicates that different instances of like objects are being referred to and are not intended to imply that the objects so described must be in a given sequence either temporally spatially in ranking or in any other manner.

As used herein unless otherwise specified the term device refers in general to an electronic communication device both wired and wireless and more particularly to one or more of the following a portable electronic device a telephone e.g. cellular phone smartphone a computer e.g. laptop computer tablet computer desktop computer wearable computer a connected camera or viewing device SmartBoards e.g. interactive boards projected virtual keyboards motion sensitive systems e.g. Microsoft Kinect a portable media player a personal digital assistant PDA a kiosk computer for public use entertainment gaming system web enabled television or entertainment device or any other electronic device having a networked capability.

As used herein unless otherwise specified the term server may refer to any computing device having a networked connectivity and configured to provide one or more dedicated services to clients such as a mobile device or camera. The services may include storage of data or any kind of data processing. One example of a central server may include a web server hosting one or more web pages. Some examples of web pages may include social networking web pages. Another example of a server may be a cloud server that hosts web services for one or more computer devices.

Embodiments of the present disclosure are directed to among other things systems and methods for monitoring waste and more specifically to systems and methods for monitoring waste levels waste types or waste items and other metrics of waste placed in waste dumpsters such as opentop waste dumpsters. Embodiments of the disclosure may identify prohibited waste items or potential hazards such as persons in or near a waste container and may trigger one or more notifications based at least in part on identified items or hazards. Notifications in such instances may include text messages email messages or other notifications to a hauling company that a person or other hazard is in or near the waste container. Some embodiments may include electronic message boards or signs or a speaker at the waste container area that indicate presence of a hazard or otherwise alert the hauling company or another user to the presence of the hazard so as to avoid potential injury to person or property. Certain embodiments may monitor waste levels in waste containers and may schedule waste hauling or waste pickup based at least in part on waste levels and a predetermined waste level threshold.

The systems and methods described herein may monitor the amount of waste placed in an opentop dumpster and may trigger automatic waste pickups based on waste level thresholds established by an operator or user of the dumpster. The systems and methods described herein may further monitor waste contents including types of waste deposited into the dumpster and may provide notifications such as electronic messages and or audible alarms when an unwanted or restricted item is placed into the dumpster. The systems and methods described herein may further monitor and or identify users that deposit waste into the dumpster via a variety of methods. Such monitoring may include flagging users or unknown persons who place waste into the dumpster for example by capturing images or video or other information of users based on motion detected about a waste container. The systems and methods described herein may also allow for tolerance in positioning of the dumpster when the dumpster is emptied and replaced at or near its original location upon completion of a waste pickup or waste hauling event.

The systems and methods described herein may result in reduced costs associated with waste removal as waste pickups may be triggered upon waste levels reaching a predetermined threshold in a waste container rather than at regularly scheduled time intervals without regard to the level of waste in the dumpster. Further the systems and methods described herein may prevent fines and or penalties for improper waste dumping by identifying restricted objects placed in the dumpster and identifying the user responsible. Similarly the systems and methods described herein may prevent fines and or penalties for overfilled dumpsters by ensuring a waste hauling call such as by automatic triggering and or by providing a notification to an operator or user. Systems and methods may further identify potential hazards such as persons in or near a waste container to prevent injury.

The systems and methods described herein may include a waste container and a monitoring device. The waste management system may include a waste container such as an opentop dumpster. The opentop dumpster may be of any size or geometry such as a commercial waste container or a residential waste container. The monitoring device may be for example a camera a video camera a smart camera or another electronic device capable of viewing the waste container.

The monitoring device may be configured and or positioned to monitor the waste container such that a fill level and or contents of the waste container may be visible to the monitoring device or otherwise within a field of view of the monitoring device. The monitoring device may also record images of the container and communicate the images to a system which may compare the images against representative images to determine a fill level of the waste container and or to determine whether any waste contents are restricted. The monitoring device may be communicatively coupled to a network and may be configured to automatically trigger a notification or an alert such as a waste pickup notification or a restricted item notification that may be transmitted or sent to an owner or operator of the waste container. In other embodiments notifications and or alerts may be transmitted or otherwise sent to a manager. For example in instances where a waste container is owned by a third party the waste management system described herein may be configured to communicate with a manager of the third party. In some instances the manager of the third party may be an owner of the waste management system described herein and may be onsite or the manager of the third party may be remotely located at the third party or elsewhere and may receive notifications and or alerts directly. Such communication may facilitate a notification and or alert an appropriate waste collector or lowest cost vendor whereas other embodiments may notify and or alert either a facilities manager or the waste hauling company directly without a middleman.

The waste management system may also include an electronic device capable of identifying users that approach and or deposit waste into the waste container and may record identifying information or may transmit the identifying information to another computer via a network. The waste management system may further upon determining the approach of a user within a proximity of the waste management system identify one or more mobile devices associated with the user and communicate a notification to one or both of another computer via a computer network and the user s mobile device s .

Referring now to one embodiment of a waste management system is illustrated. The waste management system may include an opentop dumpster a camera system a user monitoring system and a waste management device . The opentop dumpster may be a thirty cubic yard commercial dumpster with an open or uncovered top or any sized opentop dumpster. The camera system may include a camera with a field of vision . The camera may be positioned on an elevated structure such that the field of vision of the camera includes visibility into some or all of the opentop dumpster . The camera may be rotatably mounted with one or more degrees of freedom e.g. rotation about one or two axes on the elevated structure such that the field of vision of the camera is dynamic. In instances where the opentop dumpster is not placed in exactly the same location between waste pickups the camera may accommodate by either rotating or by having a wide field of vision e.g. a wide angle lens a fisheye lens a compound lens or the like . In other embodiments the camera may not include the elevated structure and may be mounted on a wall for example. The camera may be communicatively coupled to a network for example via wireless communication such as WiFi BLUETOOTH NFC RFID or the like or a wired connection. The camera may be continuously operational so as to generate a video recording or may take pictures periodically. In some instances the camera may be triggered to operate based on a notification from the user monitoring system as described below. In other embodiments the camera may be triggered by an associated sensor for example a motion sensor heat sensor RFID NFC sensor or the like as described herein. In some embodiments the camera may be mounted to the dumpster itself or to an arm or the like attached to the dumpster and optionally rotatably or extendably configured for positioning from a secured position to a monitoring position . In other embodiments the camera may be mounted to a building or other surface near the dumpster and may be positioned such that the camera has a field of vision into the dumpster e.g. the camera may be wall mounted at a relatively higher vertical position than a top of the dumpster .

The waste management device may also be connected to the network for example by wireless connection and may be configured to provide an input output interface for users of the waste management system . The waste management device may be communicatively coupled to the camera system and the user monitoring system for example via network or another wireless or wired connection. The waste management device may be used to control various aspects of the waste management system .

The user monitoring system may include a motion sensor and a communication device for example a device configured to communicate over BLUETOOTH NFC RFID or any wireless communication such as via network . The user monitoring system may detect the presence of a user at or approaching the opentop dumpster or as the user comes within a predetermined proximity of the opentop dumpster . The user may have an identifier positioned at or on the user . For example the identifier may be an encoded work badge or ID a mobile device such as a smartphone a smart fob or another identifier associated with the user. The user monitoring system may emit a beacon periodically or may transmit a beacon or other request upon activation of the motion sensor . For example as the user approaches the opentop dumpster the user may come into the triggering range of the motion sensor . The motion sensor may be communicatively coupled to the communication device of the user monitoring system and may notify the communication device of the presence of the user . The communication device may receive the notification from the motion sensor and may emit a beacon in an attempt establish a connection with and or to identify the user . The identifier of the user may receive the beacon or other transmission from the communication device of the user monitoring system and in response may transmit identification information such as name phone number employee identification number or other identification information to the user monitoring system . The user monitoring system may receive and in some embodiments store and or transmit the identification information to another computer. In some embodiments the user monitoring system may establish a geofence about the opentop dumpster and may transmit a beacon or message to any compatible electronic devices within the geofence requesting identification information. In some embodiments the sensor may be able to determine the mobile number of the user such that the system can communicate with that user via for example SMS MMS.

Upon detecting the user the user monitoring system may also transmit a notification to the camera system for example via network . The camera system may receive the notification and may initiate the camera . In other embodiments the camera may be in continuous operation. The camera may collect one or more images of the contents of the opentop dumpster . The camera may analyze the level of waste in the opentop dumpster to determine if the level exceeds a predetermined fill level for example represented by dashed line . In some embodiments the camera may use a virtual line positioned at a desired fill level of the opentop dumpster for example 75 80 90 or any adjustable fill level determined by the owner of the dumpster. In other embodiments the camera may analyze the fill level with respect to an upper edge or other mark of the opentop dumpster . If the fill level exceeds the predetermined fill level the camera system may initiate a waste pickup by for example transmitting a notification or alert to a waste hauler service provider system as described below. In other embodiments the camera system may notify personnel or trigger an operator alert including an audible alarm for manual inspection of the fill level of the opentop dumpster . Notifications may include images and or video recording of a waste container. The camera system may notify personnel or trigger an operator alert by transmitting a notification or message to the waste management device for example via network .

The camera system may also provide alerts or notifications at desired fill levels for example the camera system may notify the operator by sending a notification to the waste management device when the opentop dumpster is approximately half full. Moreover the system may be capable of monitoring the fill level across the opentop container such that it can provide advice about where along the length of the container to place waste so as to achieve a uniform degree of fullness i.e. maximize the waste in any given pickup .

The camera system may also transmit captured images of the contents of the opentop dumpster to another computer for example the waste management device or another server for analysis of the waste contents . In some embodiments the camera system may analyze the waste contents locally. The waste management device may receive the images from the camera system and may analyze the waste contents using image recognition pattern recognition optical character recognition or another visual based recognition methodology to determine particulars of the waste content . For example the computer may determine if any of the waste content is a restricted and or illegal waste item. The computer may compare recognized patterns or images to a known image database for example to determine if any waste contents do not belong in the opentop dumpster . The known image database may be updated and or maintained by the operator of the waste management system . The known image database may include prohibited items illegal items or other undesired items.

In for example the camera system may send an image of the opentop dumpster to the waste management device via network . The computer may recognize or otherwise identify a tire and a car battery in the waste content . The computer may determine that the car battery and tire are prohibited items. The computer may transmit a notification to the operator of the waste management system along with user identification information if any collected by the user monitoring system at the time the tire and or car battery were deposited into the opentop container . The operator may then take necessary action such as reprimanding the offending user and or removing the prohibited items prior to waste pickup. The computer may also analyze the image to determine a fill level as discussed above of the opentop dumpster and based at least in part on the determined fill level initiate a response action. For example if the opentop container is 90 full the computer may request a waste pickup and also alert the operator that the opentop dumpster is close to overflowing. Similarly the computer system can be configured to account for particular requirements for particular opentop containers. For example some containers may be designated as paper and cardboard recycling containers. As such the system described herein can be used to help monitor that only paper and cardboard are deposited within such a container.

In some embodiments multiple waste containers may be included in the waste management system . In these embodiments the waste management system may be configured to allow one waste container to fill to a high capacity for example 95 without triggering a waste pickup action as long as another waste container has a predetermined level of unused space. For example a waste pickup action may not be triggered until one waste container is 95 full and the second waste container is 75 full thereby maximizing utilization of the waste containers.

Referring now to another embodiment of the waste management system is schematically depicted. The waste management system includes the camera of the camera system the waste management device motion sensor of the user monitoring system discussed above an image database a third party system s and a service provider system . Additional or fewer components may be included in the waste management system although only certain components are illustrated in this embodiment. Each component of the waste management system may be communicatively coupled via network . In other embodiments some or all components of the waste management system may be connected via wired connections.

The waste management device may be a mobile device and may include one or more processor s an input output device and one or more communication connection s . The processor I O device and communication connections may be communicatively coupled to one or more memory storage units . The memory may include a waste management program an image comparison program and an operating system . The I O device may allow a user of the waste management device to input commands or configure the waste management system for example via the operating system or a guided user interface. The communication connection may be configured to transmit and or receive data for example from other components of the waste management system . The waste management program may include aspects of the waste management system and may be a separate application on the waste management device . The waste management program may be communicatively coupled to the image comparison program and or the operating system . The image comparison program may be configured to analyze or compare images received from the camera with images stored in the image database for example.

Components of the system may be in communication via one or more networks . Such network s may include but are not limited to any one or more different types of communications networks such as for example cable networks public networks e.g. the Internet private networks e.g. frame relay networks wireless networks cellular networks telephone networks e.g. a public switched telephone network or any other suitable private or public packet switched or circuit switched networks. Further such network s may have any suitable communication range associated therewith and may include for example global networks e.g. the Internet metropolitan area networks MANs wide area networks WANs local area networks LANs or personal area networks PANs . In addition such network s may include communication links and associated networking devices e.g. link layer switches routers etc. for transmitting network traffic over any suitable type of medium including but not limited to coaxial cable twisted pair wire e.g. twisted pair copper wire optical fiber a hybrid fiber coaxial HFC medium a microwave medium a radio frequency communication medium a satellite communication medium or any combination thereof.

The image database may be connected to the network and may include a database of images or links to images for example images associated with different fill levels of waste containers images associated with different types of waste containers images associated with prohibited and or restricted items and other images that may be used or analyzed by the waste management system . The image database may be updated by data received from the waste management device for example. In other embodiments the image database may be stored locally at the waste management device .

The waste management system may include a third party system . The third party system may be connected to one or more components of the waste management system via network or another wireless or wired connection. The third party system may be for example a security guard system that receives notifications from the waste management device or the camera when a prohibited item is identified in the waste container. Other examples of the third party system include law enforcement systems waste hauler systems and other systems that may receive notifications from the waste management device or another component of the waste management system .

The service provider system may include one or more processor s an input output device one or more communication connection s and storage . The processor I O device communication connections and storage may be communicatively coupled to one or more memory ies . The memory may include a waste management program an image comparison program an operating system and a waste hauler database . As described above with respect to the waste management device the I O device may allow a user of the service provider system to input commands or configure the service provider system for example via the operating system or a guided user interface. The communication connection may be configured to transmit and or receive data for example from other components of the waste management system . The waste management program may include aspects of the waste management system and may be a separate application on the service provider system . The waste management program may be communicatively coupled to the image comparison program and or the operating system . The image comparison program may be configured to analyze or compare images received from the camera with images stored in the image database for example.

The memory devices may include volatile memory memory that maintains its state when supplied with power such as random access memory RAM and or non volatile memory memory that maintains its state even when not supplied with power such as read only memory ROM flash memory ferroelectric RAM FRAM and so forth. In certain example embodiments volatile memory may enable faster read write access than non volatile memory. However in certain other example embodiments certain types of non volatile memory e.g. FRAM may enable faster read write access than certain types of volatile memory.

In various implementations the memory devices may include multiple different types of memory such as various types of static random access memory SRAM various types of dynamic random access memory DRAM various types of unalterable ROM and or writeable variants of ROM such as electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM flash memory and so forth. The memory devices may include main memory as well as various forms of cache memory such as instruction cache s data cache s translation lookaside buffer s TLBs and so forth. Further cache memory such as a data cache may be a multi level cache organized as a hierarchy of one or more cache levels L1 L2 etc. .

The data storage may include removable storage and or non removable storage including but not limited to magnetic storage optical disk storage and or tape storage. The data storage may provide non volatile storage of computer executable instructions and other data. The memory devices and the data storage removable and or non removable are examples of computer readable storage media CRSM as that term is used herein.

The data storage may store computer executable code instructions or the like that may be loadable into the memory and executable by the processor s to cause the processor s to perform or initiate various operations. The data storage may additionally store data that may be copied to memory for use by the processor s during the execution of the computer executable instructions. Moreover output data generated as a result of execution of the computer executable instructions by the processor s may be stored initially in memory and may ultimately be copied to data storage for non volatile storage.

More specifically the data storage may store one or more operating systems O S and one or more program modules applications or the like. Further any data stored in the data storage may be loaded into the memory for use by the processor s in executing computer executable code.

The processor s may be configured to access the memory and execute computer executable instructions loaded therein. The processor s may include any suitable processing unit capable of accepting data as input processing the input data in accordance with stored computer executable instructions and generating output data. The processor s may include any type of suitable processing unit including but not limited to a central processing unit a microprocessor a Reduced Instruction Set Computer RISC microprocessor a Complex Instruction Set Computer CISC microprocessor a microcontroller an Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC a Field Programmable Gate Array FPGA a System on a Chip SoC a digital signal processor DSP and so forth. Further the processor s may have any suitable microarchitecture design that includes any number of constituent components such as for example registers multiplexers arithmetic logic units cache controllers for controlling read write operations to cache memory branch predictors or the like. The microarchitecture design of the processor s may be capable of supporting any of a variety of instruction sets.

Referring now to other illustrative components depicted as being stored in the data storage the O S may be loaded from the data storage into the memory and may provide an interface between other application software and hardware resources. The O S may include any operating system now known or which may be developed in the future including but not limited to any server operating system any mainframe operating system or any other proprietary or non proprietary operating system.

Referring now to other illustrative components of the system one or more input output I O interfaces may be provided that may facilitate the receipt of input information from one or more I O devices as well as the output of information from a device to the one or more I O devices. The I O devices may include for example one or more user interface devices that facilitate interaction between a user and a device including but not limited to a display a keypad a pointing device a control panel a touch screen display a gesture capture or detection device a remote control device a microphone a speaker and so forth. The I O devices may further include for example any number of peripheral devices such as data storage devices printing devices and so forth.

Various program module s script s plug in s Application Programming Interface s API s or any other suitable computer executable code hosted locally on the system and or hosted on other computing device s accessible via one or more networks may be provided to support functionality provided by the program modules applications or computer executable code and or additional or alternate functionality. Further functionality may be modularized differently such that processing described as being supported collectively by the collection of program modules may be performed by a fewer or greater number of modules or functionality described as being supported by any particular module may be supported at least in part by another module. In addition program modules that support the functionality described herein may form part of one or more applications executable across any number of systems or devices in accordance with any suitable computing model such as for example a client server model a peer to peer model and so forth. In addition any of the functionality described as being supported by any of the program modules may be implemented at least partially in hardware and or firmware across any number of devices.

It should further be appreciated that the system may include alternate and or additional hardware software or firmware components beyond those described or depicted without departing from the scope of the disclosure. More particularly it should be appreciated that software firmware or hardware components depicted as forming part of the system are merely illustrative and that some components may not be present or additional components may be provided in various embodiments. While various illustrative program modules have been depicted and described as software modules stored in data storage it should be appreciated that functionality described as being supported by the program modules may be enabled by any combination of hardware software and or firmware. It should further be appreciated that each of the above mentioned modules may in various embodiments represent a logical partitioning of supported functionality. This logical partitioning is depicted for ease of explanation of the functionality and may not be representative of the structure of software hardware and or firmware for implementing the functionality. Accordingly it should be appreciated that functionality described as being provided by a particular module may in various embodiments be provided at least in part by one or more other modules. Further one or more depicted modules may not be present in certain embodiments while in other embodiments additional modules not depicted may be present and may support at least a portion of the described functionality and or additional functionality. Moreover while certain modules may be depicted and described as sub modules of another module in certain embodiments such modules may be provided as independent modules or as sub modules of other modules.

The service provider system may include the waste hauler database . The waste hauler database may include data or information associated with one or more waste haulers for example contact information pricing availability or scheduling and other waste hauler information. The service provider system may be configured to receive a waste pickup notification from the waste management device and to analyze the waste hauler database to identify a waste hauler and or schedule a waste pick up.

In an illustrative example the sensor may detect a user around an opentop dumpster. The sensor may notify the camera of the user presence by sending a trigger to the camera via network . The camera may receive the trigger from the sensor and may begin capturing images and or video of the opentop dumpster. The camera may transmit the captured images to the waste management device via network . The waste management device may receive the captured images from the camera and using the waste management program and or the image comparison program may communicate with the image database to determine a fill level of the opentop dumpster and or analyze the waste contents of the opentop dumpster. The waste management device may analyze the captured images and in instances where prohibited items are identified in the opentop dumpster may transmit an alert to an operator of the opentop dumpster a security service provide or another third party system . The waste management device may also transmit a copy of the image with the prohibited item along with user identification captured from sensor .

Based at least in part on the analysis of the captured images received from the camera the waste management device may also determine a fill level of the opentop dumpster. If the fill level exceeds a predetermined threshold the waste management device using communication connection for example may transmit a notification to the service provider system indicating that the opentop dumpster is ready for waste pickup. The service provider system may receive the notification from the waste management device and may identify a waste hauler selected from the waste hauler database based at least in part on scheduling availability pricing or other factors. The service provider system may then automatically schedule a waste pickup for the opentop dumpster for example by electronically placing an order or transmitting data to the identified waste hauler. In other instances the third party system may be the waste hauler and the waste management device may schedule the waste pickup. The waste hauler may then empty the opentop dumpster.

Referring now to and example logic chart of a method of managing waste is depicted. At block an image is taken of an interior of an opentop container. At block a determination is made whether the container meets or exceeds a fullness threshold. At decision if the threshold is met a notification is sent to the responsible user at block . A waste pickup is then scheduled with a waste hauling vendor at block . At decision if the threshold is not met the fullness level of the container is continued to be monitored at block .

Referring now to a method of managing waste is provided. At block an identity of a person depositing waste items into a container is detected for example via RFID or mobile device identification. Block includes capturing an image of the waste items deposited or to be deposited into the waste container. At block the captured image is compared to one or more images in an image database of prohibited or restricted items. At determination block a determination of whether the deposited waste items are prohibited is made by one or more modules of a computer system of the system. If the waste items are not prohibited the method may continue to block . If the waste items are prohibited or if the determination at block is positive the method may proceed to block at which an indication of the identity of the user may be sent for example to a third party another computer a user device the system of the operator of the opentop container or another computer system. At block a notification is sent of the prohibited or restricted item or unauthorized user to a managing user. Notifications may include text messages emails audible alarms or other notifications. It should be understood that in some embodiments not all of these steps will be practiced. For example the system may not include a sensor or device for identifying a user and therefore may not determine the user s identity and communicate that to the managing user.

Referring to an example process flow is depicted. Block of the process flow may include monitoring a waste compartment of a waste container the waste compartment configured to receive waste items. Block may include determining a waste level of waste items in the waste compartment. Block may include identifying a waste haul threshold indicative of a predetermined waste level at which a waste haul notification is triggered. The waste haul threshold may be in one example a height of the waste level relative to a height of the waste compartment. In some embodiments the waste haul threshold may be based at least in part on an unfilled capacity of the waste container. For example embodiments of the disclosure may determine an unfilled capacity of a waste compartment by comparing the waste level to the waste haul threshold. Certain embodiments may generate a percentage available capacity by calculating an unfilled volume of the waste compartment by computer modeling or triangulating certain points of a top layer of waste with respect to a maximum fill level of a waste container. Some embodiments may further generate an estimated time that a waste container will be filled based at least in part on historical data related to fill levels fill events or user interactions at the waste container and other information.

Block may include determining that the waste level meets the waste haul threshold. Block includes triggering the waste haul notification indicating that the waste container is to be emptied based at least in part on the waste level. In some embodiments triggering the waste haul notification may include automatically scheduling a waste haul pickup with a waste hauler to empty the waste container. For example embodiments may place waste haul orders or send notifications with pickup instructions to one or more waste hauling service providers.

Upon completion of a waste haul pickup embodiments of the disclosure may refocus a camera to capture a waste container and surrounding perimeter. In some instances a waste container may not be placed in its original location after a waste haul pickup. Accordingly embodiments of the disclosure may automatically identify waste container positioning and may detect motion within a surrounding perimeter to determine presence of moving objects e.g. people animals etc. . For example if a person is dwelling around or otherwise loitering near a dumpster or waste container embodiments of the disclosure may prevent a waste hauling so as to avoid injury to the person. In one example method certain embodiments may determine a first location of the waste container. Upon completion of a waste haul pickup embodiments may determine a second location of the waste container that is different than the first location. Upon determining the second location the waste haul threshold may be updated based at least in part on the second location of the waste container. Further a perimeter surrounding the waste container may be adjusted according to the second location. In one example a camera of the system may be reoriented so as to position the waste container within the camera s field of vision in the second location.

Embodiments of the disclosure may detect motion about a waste container. For example a motion sensor may be used to detect motion and or trigger a camera associated with a system. In one embodiment a system may detect motion about a waste container and as a result the system may trigger or otherwise initiate recording of a video of the waste container. Systems may further identify a user device positioned about the waste container based at least in part on the detected motion.

As discussed herein embodiments of the disclosure may detect one or more prohibited items among the waste items of a waste container. In one example embodiment a method may include identifying a first waste item positioned in the waste compartment determining that the first waste item is a prohibited waste item such as a person a tire a car battery can of paint stain container of solvent or industrial chemical or other item and triggering a prohibited item notification based at least in part on the first waste item. For example the system may compare an image of the first waste item to a database comprising images of prohibited items. Prohibited item notifications may include audible alarms visual notifications email messages text messages images videos or other notifications. In some instances for example when a person or moving object may be detected about a waste container systems and methods may wait a predetermined length of time before sending a prohibited item notification. For example if a person is detected by a system of the disclosure for a length of 1 minute or 5 minutes etc. the system may trigger a prohibited item notification upon completion of the predetermined time interval so as to prevent or avoid premature notifications. In some embodiments an intercom system with a speaker may be located at or adjacent to monitored opentop containers so as to facilitate immediate communication and or remediation when prohibited items are placed into the container or other hazards are identified.

Referring to an example process flow is depicted. At block the process flow includes monitoring a waste compartment of a waste container the waste compartment configured to receive waste items. Block includes capturing a first image of the waste items. Block includes identifying a first waste item positioned in the waste compartment based at least in part on the first image. Block includes comparing the first waste item to a set of prohibited waste items. Block includes determining that the first waste item is a prohibited waste item based at least in part on the set of prohibited waste items. Block includes triggering a prohibited item notification based at least in part on the determined prohibited waste item.

In some embodiments a waste haul pickup may have been scheduled with a waste hauler to empty the waste container. Embodiments may capture a second image of the waste items upon scheduling the waste haul pickup and may determine that a second prohibited waste item is in the waste compartment based at least in part on the second image. As a result the system may cancel the waste haul pickup.

Referring now to an example system is illustrated in top and perspective views. The system may include a waste container with a waste compartment configured to receive waste items a first camera having a first field of vision mounted such that the waste compartment is in the first field of vision and a second camera having a second field of vision mounted such that the waste compartment is in the second field of vision . The first and second cameras may be elevated and oriented so as to capture the waste container and a surrounding perimeter. The first and second cameras may have tilt pan and or zoom functionality. The second camera may be oriented at an angle such as at an acute angle or an obtuse angle or substantially perpendicular to the first camera . The system may include a computer system with at least one memory storing computer executable instructions and at least one processor communicatively coupled to the at least one memory configured to execute the computer executable instructions to monitor the waste compartment via the first camera and or the second camera . The system may determine a waste level of the waste items in the waste compartment and may identify a waste haul threshold indicative of a predetermined waste level at which a waste haul notification is triggered. The system may determine that the waste level meets the waste haul threshold and may trigger the waste haul notification indicating that the waste container is to be emptied based at least in part on the waste level. In some embodiments the system may generate a three dimensional model of the waste items in the waste compartment based at least in part on images from the first camera and or the second camera and may automatically schedule a waste haul pickup with a waste hauler to empty the waste container . In embodiments with a single camera the camera may be configured to pan between multiple waste containers. The computer system may be compartmentalized and located proximate to the container and may be connected to the network via any network communication protocol such as cellular.

Embodiments of the disclosure may further be configured to identify types of waste in the waste compartment . For example the camera may determine that the waste compartment includes a number of boxes and as a result when the waste compartment meets the waste hauling threshold systems of the disclosure may automatically trigger a waste haul pickup with a cardboard recycling service provider because the waste compartment includes recyclable boxes. Similarly if the waste compartment includes aluminum items as determined by systems of the disclosure an aluminum waste hauler or recycling service provider may automatically be contacted for waste hauling. In some embodiments systems of the disclosure may trigger waste hauls or schedule waste haul events with specific waste haulers based at least in part on a position of a waste container relative to other waste containers. For example a first waste container position may be associated with a particular waste hauler and a second waste container position may be associated with a different waste hauler. Prohibited items may include the wrong type of waste for a dedicated container. For example waste items placed in a recycling container may be considered prohibited items or paper products placed into an aluminum recycling container may be considered a prohibited item.

The above described systems and methods may provide effective and efficient waste management by initiating timely waste pickup as needed based on fill level of waste containers and may reduce costs associated with prohibited or illegal items placed by users into waste containers. The systems and methods described herein may also allow for identification and tracking of waste generation patterns and may inform waste mitigation and recycling efforts. Systems and methods described herein may further prevent and or deter theft from or unauthorized removal of waste items such as recyclables from waste containers.

One or more operations of the process flows may have been described above as being performed by a computer system or more specifically by one or more program modules applications or the like executing on a device. It should be appreciated however that any of the operations of process flows may be performed at least in part in a distributed manner by one or more other devices or more specifically by one or more program modules applications or the like executing on such devices. In addition it should be appreciated that processing performed in response to execution of computer executable instructions provided as part of an application program module or the like may be interchangeably described herein as being performed by the application or the program module itself or by a device on which the application program module or the like is executing. The operations described and depicted in the illustrative process flows may be carried out or performed in any suitable order as desired in various example embodiments of the disclosure. Additionally in certain example embodiments at least a portion of the operations may be carried out in parallel. Furthermore in certain example embodiments less more or different operations than those depicted in process flows may be performed.

Although specific embodiments of the disclosure have been described one of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that numerous other modifications and alternative embodiments are within the scope of the disclosure. For example any of the functionality and or processing capabilities described with respect to a particular device or component may be performed by any other device or component. Further while various illustrative implementations and architectures have been described in accordance with embodiments of the disclosure one of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that numerous other modifications to the illustrative implementations and architectures described herein are also within the scope of this disclosure.

Certain aspects of the disclosure are described above with reference to block and flow diagrams of systems methods apparatuses and or computer program products according to example embodiments. It will be understood that one or more blocks of the block diagrams and flow diagrams and combinations of blocks in the block diagrams and the flow diagrams respectively may be implemented by execution of computer executable program instructions. Likewise some blocks of the block diagrams and flow diagrams may not necessarily need to be performed in the order presented or may not necessarily need to be performed at all according to some embodiments. Further additional components and or operations beyond those depicted in blocks of the block and or flow diagrams may be present in certain embodiments.

Accordingly blocks of the block diagrams and flow diagrams support combinations of means for performing the specified functions combinations of elements or steps for performing the specified functions and program instruction means for performing the specified functions. It will also be understood that each block of the block diagrams and flow diagrams and combinations of blocks in the block diagrams and flow diagrams may be implemented by special purpose hardware based computer systems that perform the specified functions elements or steps or combinations of special purpose hardware and computer instructions.

Program modules applications or the like disclosed herein may include one or more software components including for example software objects methods data structures or the like. Each such software component may include computer executable instructions that responsive to execution cause at least a portion of the functionality described herein e.g. one or more operations of the illustrative methods described herein to be performed.

A software component may be coded in any of a variety of programming languages. An illustrative programming language may be a lower level programming language such as an assembly language associated with a particular hardware architecture and or operating system platform. A software component comprising assembly language instructions may require conversion into executable machine code by an assembler prior to execution by the hardware architecture and or platform.

Another example programming language may be a higher level programming language that may be portable across multiple architectures. A software component comprising higher level programming language instructions may require conversion to an intermediate representation by an interpreter or a compiler prior to execution.

Other examples of programming languages include but are not limited to a macro language a shell or command language a job control language a script language a database query or search language or a report writing language. In one or more example embodiments a software component comprising instructions in one of the foregoing examples of programming languages may be executed directly by an operating system or other software component without having to be first transformed into another form.

A software component may be stored as a file or other data storage construct. Software components of a similar type or functionally related may be stored together such as for example in a particular directory folder or library. Software components may be static e.g. pre established or fixed or dynamic e.g. created or modified at the time of execution .

Software components may invoke or be invoked by other software components through any of a wide variety of mechanisms. Invoked or invoking software components may comprise other custom developed application software operating system functionality e.g. device drivers data storage e.g. file management routines other common routines and services etc. or third party software components e.g. middleware encryption or other security software database management software file transfer or other network communication software mathematical or statistical software image processing software and format translation software .

Software components associated with a particular solution or system may reside and be executed on a single platform or may be distributed across multiple platforms. The multiple platforms may be associated with more than one hardware vendor underlying chip technology or operating system. Furthermore software components associated with a particular solution or system may be initially written in one or more programming languages but may invoke software components written in another programming language.

Computer executable program instructions may be loaded onto a special purpose computer or other particular machine a processor or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a particular machine such that execution of the instructions on the computer processor or other programmable data processing apparatus causes one or more functions or operations specified in the flow diagrams to be performed. These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable storage medium CRSM that upon execution may direct a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer readable storage medium produce an article of manufacture including instruction means that implement one or more functions or operations specified in the flow diagrams. The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to cause a series of operational elements or steps to be performed on the computer or other programmable apparatus to produce a computer implemented process.

Additional types of CRSM that may be present in any of the devices described herein may include but are not limited to programmable random access memory PRAM SRAM DRAM RAM ROM electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology compact disc read only memory CD ROM digital versatile disc DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the information and which can be accessed. Combinations of any of the above are also included within the scope of CRSM. Alternatively computer readable communication media CRCM may include computer readable instructions program modules or other data transmitted within a data signal such as a carrier wave or other transmission. However as used herein CRSM does not include CRCM.

Although embodiments have been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the disclosure is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described. Rather the specific features and acts are disclosed as illustrative forms of implementing the embodiments. Conditional language such as among others can could might or may unless specifically stated otherwise or otherwise understood within the context as used is generally intended to convey that certain embodiments could include while other embodiments do not include certain features elements and or steps. Thus such conditional language is not generally intended to imply that features elements and or steps are in any way required for one or more embodiments or that one or more embodiments necessarily include logic for deciding with or without user input or prompting whether these features elements and or steps are included or are to be performed in any particular embodiment.

