---

title: Bolt shear force sensor
abstract: A bolt shear force sensor for in-service monitoring is provided in which the sensor includes a deformable ring with channel-like cross-sections and a wire egress hole. The ring surrounds a bolt or fastener to be tested. The channel-like cross sections face exterior to a center of the ring. Strain sensing elements are mounted within the channel cross-sections as an outer circumference of the ring. The sensing elements capture hoop strain from surrounding plates of the operating system which holds the fastener. A signal conditioner operationally connected via wire conductors is used to convert strain sensing signals from the sensing elements to strain output. The strain outputs are then used in conjunction with a calibration curve of shear force versus strain to determine the magnitudes and directions of the resultant shear forces.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09429485&OS=09429485&RS=09429485
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 09429485
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150312
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefor.

The present invention relates to a bolt shear force sensor for use in design testing as well as in service monitoring in order to provide a structural assessment of a bolt or fastener while attached in an operating system.

The design of submarine and ship systems required to survive the effects of mechanical shock must consider not only the system and foundation to which the system is attached but also the mechanical fasteners connecting them. While it is well known that structures typically fail at mechanical joints and other discontinuities there are significant difficulties in assessing and predicting localized distribution of forces within the mechanical fasteners used at the joints.

These difficulties increase when loading forces are dynamic as in the case of shock blast vibration and seismic events. As such making a determination of proper sizing spacing pre tensioning and quality of fasteners becomes increasingly critical. Therefore achieving the required level of structural integrity in mechanically fastened joints has further implications on the design methods used and the need for experimental testing.

In commercial applications qualification by analysis is becoming more prevalent especially when providing design guidance and establishing performance criteria. Since the need remains to understand how mechanically fastened joints behave a need also exists to identify individual fastener behavior from structural tests and to improve the knowledge base and design methods for joints in load carrying structures.

Multiple devices and methods for measuring axial forces in fasteners are described in the art. However these devices and methods do not adequately measure fastener shear forces in which those forces transversely align with a longitudinal axis of a bolt. In a properly designed joint axial and shear forces must be considered because of their cumulative effect on fastener stress.

While handbook calculations and numerical methods are typically employed for estimation purposes both types of methods require kinematic and constitutive stiffness assumptions in regard to the transfer of external loads and the resulting distribution of internal reaction forces among participating joint components. In mechanically fastened joints subjected to shearing loads factors such as elasticity of the joined members hole tolerances interfacial friction creep thermal expansion etc affect the ability of the joint to resist shearing motions among joined members.

While fastener shear forces directly create shear stresses the forces also create a secondary effect that generates fastener bending stresses. These bending stresses which are difficult to quantify because the bending moment arm in each fastener is often unknown superimpose with pretension stresses. As such it is apparent that for joints subject to shearing loads fastener tensions stresses comprise the direct axial tension the sum of initial pretension and externally applied axial joint loads and the bending stress due to shearing forces.

In the known art Slack U.S. Pat. No. 4 870 866 describes an ultrasonic method for measuring contact pressures on mating interfaces of solids undergoing compression. In the reference an interfacial region contains an entrapped film of liquid. By monitoring the change in acoustic pulses the contact pressure can be determined. However to determine the shear force additional processing would require an integration of the contact pressure over the contact area. Hence to obtain the shear force the contact area must also be monitored. This method would be difficult to employ with existing in service monitoring applications.

Hay U.S. Pat. No. 5 945 665 describes a fiber optic strain gage based transducer which measures only the axial force including pretension in the bolt See . In the figure a Bragg grating sensor is inserted and held by epoxy in a mechanical fastener . Optical fiber connects the grating sensor to an external connector . Other devices use washers instrumented with wire foil strain gages in which the gages only measure the axial forces in bolts.

In other commercially available measurement devices pressure sensitive films are mounted between the fasteners. The bearing surface of the mating holes for the fasteners can be used to measure shear forces from patterns of contact pressures. These films contain microcapsules that release color at prescribed pressure ranges. A scanning device is then used to measure the variations in color intensity of the contact pressure pattern. However the films do not allow continuous real time monitoring of forces. Disassembly of the joint is required to quantify the magnitudes of the shear forces.

Also in the prior art Shah U.S. Pat. No. 8 433 160 includes optical sensing elements positioned through a continuous aperture collinearly with a longitudinal axis of a fastener in order to sense strain and temperature. The sensing elements sense localized fastener deformations that occur along the longitudinal axis. The fiber optic sensing elements can be used to capture axial transverse and torsional strains as measured from the localized deformations of the drilled hole region of the fastener. However the Shah reference cannot distinguish directly between transverse compression strains due to Poisson s effect and bolt bearing strains.

Using consider an element of material of a fastener loaded in pure axial tension. By Poisson s effect a compressive strain would develop along an axis orthogonally transverse to the longitudinal axis of the fastener See . The Shah reference senses this transverse strain which is not a result of any bolt bearing induced strains.

Using now consider the combined presence of Poisson s strains from bolt tension and transverse strains of a bolt bearing. For example in the figure the fastener with the identified element is loaded in double shear by forces P and P with the fastener also under axial tensile force as indicated by direction arrows A and B. In the identified element is under compressive and axial strain.

These transverse strains are sensed rather than the individual transverse strain components. With the use of signal processing the Poisson s effect transverse strains i.e. the transverse compressive strains resulting from axial tensile loads in the fastener must be separated from the transverse bolt bearing strains. This is an indirect approach.

Based on the existing art a need still exists for a bolt shear force sensor for design validation testing as well as in service monitoring for structural health assessment. The sensor should be available for use in both static and dynamic applications.

It is therefore a general purpose and primary object of the present invention to provide a bolt shear force sensor for use in design validation as well as in service monitoring.

In order to attain the object described the present invention includes a bolt shear force sensor having a deformable ring with channel like cross sections as a circumference and a wire egress extending thru one of the flanges arms of the channel. Strain sensing elements are mounted to an outer face of the circumference in a central area mid section of the channel region. The deformable ring surrounds a bolt or mechanical fastener positioned or attached in an operating system.

Once the bolt is subjected to an external load from the surrounding system any frictional resistance to slip is overcome to the extent that a bolt bearing develops within the system. The bolt then is locked in position and resists further motion. Also at this time the bolt compresses the sensors or strain gages of the surrounding deformable ring and the ring deforms.

The strain sensing elements of the deformable ring capture hoop strain and then produce signals based on the strain. A signal conditioner accepts the signals from the strain sensing elements via wire conductors or optical fibers. The signal conditioner calculates and converts the strain sensing signals to strain output. The strain outputs are then used in conjunction with a calibration curve of shear force versus strain to determine the magnitudes and directions of the resultant shear forces.

The present invention provides a device capable of continuous and real time monitoring of shear forces in fasteners used in mechanical joints. The sensor can be used in both static and dynamic applications. The bolt shear sensor is particularly useful in joints containing multiple fasteners in which the distribution of fastener shear forces may be complicated or difficult to determine.

As depicted in the present invention provides a bolt shear force sensor having a nearly rigid yet deformable ring with indented channel like cross sections. In the figure a bolt is positioned between plates and secured with washers and a nut . Forces acting on the bolt and the deformable ring are depicted by direction arrows F and F .

As shown in the detail view of the deformable ring is a shear force sensor ring employing an optical fiber . The optical fiber is continuously wound around and glues fastened to a vertical section positioned between an upper flange and a lower flange of the ring . The optical fiber includes Bragg gratings which are commonly used as measuring sensors.

The deformable ring includes at least one egress hole or aperture which provides a conduit for the optical fiber to connect to a signal conditioner See . The deformable ring may be constructed from conventional materials metal composite plastic etc. or with piezoelectric ceramics. If the ring is constructed with piezoelectric ceramics the ring itself is the sensor therefore there is not a need for the optical fiber or any other measuring sensor wound around the ring.

Alternatively as shown in one or more strain sensing elements such as wire strain gages of sufficient size and quantity are fastened using conventional adhesives to the vertical section of the ring . The sensing elements are centered on the vertical section at mid height and are aligned to measure hoop circumferential strains. The sensing elements are fixedly bonded to the vertical section using conventional adhesives such as epoxies or other suitable bonding agents.

Because these types of gages are discrete strain measuring devices a sufficient number of strain gages would be required for a given shear load. The number of strain gages will depend on the level of accuracy desired for determining the direction of the resultant shear force vector and magnitude. For conventional electrical resistance based strain gages the resistance value and the length of the gage being used will increase sensor performance. The bolt shear force sensor supplies a consistent strain regardless of the angular position within a plane perpendicular to the longitudinal axis of the bolt or mechanical fastener made by the shear force vector and the strain gages .

Returning to the signal conditioner is operationally connected to the strain gages via the optical fibers or wire conductors shown in . A grooved adapter plate provides a conduit for the optical fibers and the wire conductors from the aperture to the signal conditioner . The signal conditioner is used to convert the gage signals i.e. change in resistance for the wire strain gages and change in light frequency for Bragg strain gages of the optical fiber to strain output.

The signal conditioner may include a monitor that indicates a magnitude of resistance force F compared to a measured strain in the sensor ring E . The strain outputs are then used in conjunction with a calibration curve of shear force versus strain to determine the magnitudes and directions of the resultant shear forces.

In the case of a sensor ring made with piezoelectric ceramics no strain gages are necessary since the ceramics produce a voltage as the ring deforms and becomes stressed. A wire conductor would attach directly to the sensor ring and would transmit voltages to the signal conditioner . In this case the signal conditioner converts the voltage readings to strain. Using the shear force versus strain calibration curve shear forces are then calculated.

Sensitivity of the deformable ring can be easily increased by incorporating additional strain sensing elements and or through shape changes of the channel cross section such as crowning or curving the vertical section . Crowning the vertical section maximizes the bending moment and ensures that contact between the bolt and the strain gages or the optical fiber occurs at the vertical section rather than at the flanges to produce greater hoop strain and therefore increased sensitivity to ensure that the strain gages are not subjected to strains along an axial direction of the bolt the thickness of the strain gages must be less than the thicknesses of the plates that the strain gages are installed with.

For the double shear lap joint shown in and multiple fasteners can be used to clamp the plates together. In the wire conductors or the optical fibers are placed into holes of a bolt after which the plates are stacked accordingly. The bolt is placed into position by passing between the deformable rings and the strain gages or the optical fiber . The diameters of the flanges should be minimized as much as possible to allow an increased hole or aperture diameter in the plates and mid plate . Doing so will ensure that the presence of the bolt shear force sensor does not adversely affect joint strength.

Once the joint is subjected to an external load see force arrows F and F any frictional resistance to slip is overcome and relative motions of the plates occur to the extent that a bolt bearing has developed. At this time contact between the crown of the deformable ring and the bolt or occurs. The bolt or is then locked in position and resists further plate motion. The bolt or compresses the sensors or strain gages against the middle plate and the ring deforms.

Similarly contact between outer radial edges of the deformable ring 180 degrees away from the contact developed at the crown and the bolt hole surface occurs. Once these contact conditions are generated a radial compressive force is produced in the bolt shear force sensor . This compressive force produces a measurable mechanical deformation and strain in the shear force sensor .

Depending upon the type of sensing elements used i.e. resistance strain gages fiber optic Bragg grating or piezoelectric material an output is generated i.e. resistance change light frequency shift or voltage and is transmitted from the shear force sensor through either egress aperture shown in and . The output is processed using the signal conditioner . Using calibration curves the signal is converted to a shearing force and if sufficient sensing elements are incorporated within the shear force sensor the vector of the shearing force is determined.

The present invention provides continuous and real time monitoring of shear forces in fasteners used in mechanical joints. The present invention is particularly useful in joints containing multiple fasteners in which the distribution of fastener shear forces may be complicated see the example of or cannot be determined.

The example of demonstrates the applied loading vector P and shear force vectors F and F and resultant shear force vector Ffor a ith bolt. The equations shown are used to perform the vector analysis calculations that are used to compute the magnitude of the resultant shear force vector for each bolt. F is the direct shear force reaction for the bolt i. F is the rotational shear force reaction for the bolt i. The sum of all F ris the total reaction moment of the joint for which a static equilibrium must equal P L See Mechanical Engineering Design J. E. Shigley 3ed. pp. 256 263 1977 .

Returning to the prior art for a comparison of results the Shah reference senses localized fastener deformations that occur along a longitudinal axis of a fastener. Alternatively the present invention senses bolt bearing deformations by using a separate deformable ring positioned externally to the fastener. The fiber optic sensing elements of the Shah reference capture an axial total transverse and torsional strains as measured from localized deformation of drilled hole regions of the fastener. However the cited reference cannot distinguish directly between transverse compression strains due to Poisson s effect and bolt bearing strains.

Consider a fastener loaded in pure axial tension as shown in . By Poisson s effect a compressive strain would develop along an axis transverse to the longitudinal axis of the fastener. Now consider the combined presence of Poisson s strains from bolt tension and transverse strains from a bolting bearing as shown in . The Shah reference senses the sum of these transverse strains rather than the individual strain components. The cited reference through the use of signal processing must separate the Poisson s effect transverse strains i.e. the transverse compressive strains resulting from axial tensile loads in the fastener from the transverse bolt bearing strains. This is an indirect approach of measurement.

The bolt shear sensor of the present invention describes a direct approach and is not sensitive to fastener axial loads and the transverse strains resulting from the Poisson s effect. Furthermore the invention describes sensing ring geometry to have a thickness H that is slightly less than the plate thickness T such that the deformable ring vertically floats in the hole of the plate See . Therefore the sensing ring is not subject to through thickness compressive joint forces and hence the transverse strains from the Poisson s effect.

Furthermore the Shah reference requires drilling a hole through along a longitudinal axis of the fastener. This drilling decreases the axial bending torsional and direct shear strengths and stiffnesses of the fastener. The bolt shear force sensor of the present invention optionally discloses a similar technique used solely for enabling the egress of conductive wires from the ring sensor through one partially drilled lateral hole and one partially drilled central hole in the fastener. Both the reference and the present invention have the potential to degrade bolt strength and stiffness but through holes provide significantly greater degradation.

Alternatively the present invention also provides an egress method that avoids having to drill any holes in the fastener by using an adaptor plate with a wire conductor egress. This latter option preserves a complete range of strengths and stiffnesses of the fastener with no degradation.

The deformable ring of the bolt shear force sensor of the present invention can be made of conventional and non conventional structural materials. The sensors can be instrumental with one or more wire strain gages one or more Bragg gratings for fiber optic strain gages or piezoelectric materials etc.

For optical strain gages that utilize Bragg gratings a single optical fiber containing multiple closely spaced Bragg gratings would be desirable to provide sufficient resolution and sensitivity. The cross section of the bolt force sensor is not restricted to the channel configuration described herein other strain sensitive geometries could be used but would require an axisymmetric ring like shape.

The foregoing description of the preferred embodiments of the invention has been presented for purposes of illustration and description only. It is not intended to be exhaustive nor to limit the invention to the precise form disclosed and obviously many modifications and variations are possible in light of the above teaching. Such modifications and variations that may be apparent to a person skilled in the art are intended to be included within the scope of this invention as defined by the accompanying claims.

