---

title: Electrical connector having an external switch
abstract: An input device may include: (a) a connector that recognizes a connection of an external device; (b) a switch located at an upper end portion of the connector and that connects an electrical signal when a physical input of a threshold pressure or more is pressed; (c) a substrate connected to a connection terminal of the switch and mounted at a surface in which the switch is not located; and/or (d) a key base that presses the switch.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09652049&OS=09652049&RS=09652049
owner: Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.
number: 09652049
owner_city: Yeongtong-gu, Suwon-si, Gyeonggi-do
owner_country: KR
publication_date: 20150306
---
This application claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. 119 a of a Korean patent application filed on Mar. 19 2014 in the Korean Intellectual Property Office and assigned Serial No. 10 2014 0032158 the entire disclosure of which is hereby incorporated by reference.

The present disclosure generally relates to an input device for detecting an external input and more particularly to hardware devices included in an input device.

Nowadays an electronic device provides various functions such as a communication function music reproduction function and camera function. In order to control such functions a user input is required. To detect such an input an electronic device including various input devices is required. Therefore a general electronic device includes at least one physical key. For example a power key a home key and a volume key as a hardware key may be mounted at the outside of the electronic device. When the user physically inputs a home key the electronic device detects the user s home key input and performs a predetermined function.

Nowadays users desire their portable electronic devices to have a small and or thin form. In order to satisfy such user demands components mounted within such electronic devices have been developed to have a size and thickness having a small form.

While the size and a thickness of components included within an electronic device are being reduced the functions performed by the electronic devices have been increasing. It is difficult to continuously reduce the thickness of the electronic device while adding functions.

Input devices that detect external signals require certain constituent elements to perform such a function. However such constituent components tend to increase the size and thickness of the electronic device. Balancing functionality and thickness of the device may necessitate reducing some of the functionality to achieve the desired thickness.

In accordance with an aspect of the present disclosure an input device may include a a connector that recognizes a connection of an external device b a switch located at an upper end portion of the connector and that connects an electrical signal when a physical input of a threshold pressure or more is pressed c a substrate connected to a connection terminal of the switch and mounted at a surface in which the switch is not located and or d a key base that presses the switch.

In accordance with another aspect of the present disclosure an input device may include a a connector that recognizes a connection of an external device b a switch located at an upper end portion of the connector and that connects an electrical signal when a physical input of a threshold pressure or more is pressed c a protection portion that covers the connector except for a surface at which the switch is located d a substrate connected to a connection terminal of the switch and mounted at a surface at which the switch is not located and or e a key base that presses the switch.

In accordance with yet another aspect of the present disclosure an electronic device may include an input recognition module that has a hole that can insert an external device and that has a surface that covers the hole and in which a surface that covers the hole is extended in an insertion direction of the external device and in which a switch is formed at one side surface of the extended surface and in which the switch includes a convex surface.

Various exemplary embodiments of the present disclosure are described below with reference to the accompanying drawings. Various exemplary embodiments of the present disclosure are illustrated in the accompanying drawings and a related detailed description is stated. It should be understood that various modifications may be made to the exemplary embodiments without departing from the scope and spirit of the present disclosure. Accordingly it should be understood that the various exemplary embodiments of the present disclosure are not intended to limit a specific embodiment form and include all possible modifications or equivalents or substitutes within the spirit and technological scope of the present disclosure. In relation to a description of the drawing like reference symbols denote like constituent elements.

The terms and words used in the following description and claims are not limited to the bibliographical meanings but are merely used by the inventor to enable a clear and consistent understanding of the present disclosure. Accordingly it should be apparent to those skilled in the art that the following description of various embodiments of the present disclosure is provided for illustration purpose only and not for the purpose of limiting the present disclosure as defined by the appended claims and their equivalents.

As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms including at least one unless the content clearly indicates otherwise. Or means and or . As used herein the term and or includes any and all combinations of one or more of the associated listed items. It will be further understood that the terms comprises and or comprising or includes and or including when used in this specification specify the presence of stated features regions integers steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features regions integers steps operations elements components and or groups thereof.

It will be understood that although the terms first second third etc. may be used herein to describe various elements components regions layers and or sections these elements components regions layers and or sections should not be limited by these terms. These terms are only used to distinguish one element component region layer or section from another element component region layer or section. Thus a first element component region layer or section discussed below could be termed a second element component region layer or section without departing from the teachings herein.

In this disclosure an electronic device may be a device that has or involves a communication function. For example an electronic device may be a smart phone a tablet PC Personal Computer a mobile phone a video phone an e book reader a desktop PC a laptop PC a netbook computer a PDA Personal Digital Assistant a PMP Portable Multimedia Player an MP3 player a portable medical device a digital camera or a wearable device e.g. an HMD Head Mounted Device such as electronic glasses electronic clothes an electronic bracelet an electronic necklace an electronic appcessory i.e. a physical device and counterpart application for a mobile device such as for example a pedometer or a heart monitor or a smart watch .

According to some embodiments an electronic device may be a smart home appliance that has or involves a communication function. For example an electronic device may be a TV a DVD Digital Video Disk player audio equipment a refrigerator an air conditioner a vacuum cleaner an oven a microwave a washing machine an air cleaner a set top box a TV box e.g. Samsung HomeSync Apple TV Google TV etc. a game console an electronic dictionary an electronic key a camcorder or an electronic picture frame.

According to some embodiments an electronic device may be a medical device e.g. MRA Magnetic Resonance Angiography MRI Magnetic Resonance Imaging CT Computed Tomography ultrasonography etc. a navigation device a GPS Global Positioning System receiver an EDR Event Data Recorder an FDR Flight Data Recorder a car infotainment device electronic equipment for ship e.g. a marine navigation system a gyrocompass etc. avionics security equipment or an industrial or home robot.

According to some embodiments an electronic device may be furniture or part of a building or construction having a communication function an electronic board an electronic signature receiving device a projector or various measuring instruments e.g. a water meter an electric meter a gas meter a wave meter etc. . An electronic device disclosed herein may be one of the above mentioned devices or any combination thereof. As well understood by those skilled in the art the above mentioned electronic devices are exemplary only and not to be considered as a limitation of this disclosure.

The bus may be a circuit designed for connecting the above discussed elements and communicating data e.g. a control message between such elements.

The processor may receive commands from the other elements e.g. the memory the input output interface the display the communication interface or the application control module etc. through the bus interpret the received commands and perform the arithmetic or data processing based on the interpreted commands.

The memory may store therein commands or data received from or created at the processor or other elements e.g. the input output interface the display the communication interface or the application control module etc. . The memory may include programming modules such as a kernel a middleware an application programming interface API and an application . Each of the programming modules may be composed of software firmware hardware and any combination thereof.

The kernel may control or manage system resources e.g. the bus the processor or the memory etc. used for performing operations or functions of the other programming modules e.g. the middleware the API or the application . Additionally the kernel may offer an interface that allows the middleware the API or the application to access control or manage individual elements of the electronic device .

The middleware may perform intermediation by which the API or the application communicates with the kernel to transmit or receive data. Additionally in connection with task requests received from the applications the middleware may perform a control e.g. scheduling or load balancing for the task request by using technique such as assigning the priority for using a system resource of the electronic device e.g. the bus the processor or the memory etc. to at least one of the applications .

The API which is an interface for allowing the application to control a function provided by the kernel or the middleware may include for example at least one interface or function e.g. a command for a file control a window control an image processing a text control and the like.

According to an embodiment the application may include an SMS MMS application an email application a calendar application an alarm application a health care application e.g. an application for measuring quantity of motion or blood sugar an environment information application e.g. an application for offering information about atmospheric pressure humidity or temperature etc. and the like. Additionally or alternatively the application may be an application associated with an exchange of information between the electronic device and any external electronic device e.g. an external electronic device and may include a notification relay application for delivering specific information to an external electronic device or a device management application for managing an external electronic device.

For example the notification relay application may include a function to deliver notification information created at any other application of the electronic device e.g. the SMS MMS application the email application the health care application or the environment information application etc. to an external electronic device e.g. the electronic device . Additionally or alternatively the notification relay application may receive notification information from an external electronic device e.g. the electronic device and offer it to a user. The device management application may manage e.g. install remove or update a certain function a turn on turn off of an external electronic device or some components thereof or an adjustment of brightness or resolution of a display of any external electronic device e.g. the electronic device communicating with the electronic device a certain application operating at such an external electronic device or a certain service e.g. a call service or a message service offered by such an external electronic device.

According to embodiments the application may include a specific application specified depending on attributes e.g. a type of an external electronic device e.g. the electronic device . For example in case an external electronic device is an MP3 player the application may include a specific application associated with a play of music. Similarly in case an external electronic device is a portable medical device the application may include a specific application associated with health care. In an embodiment the application may include at least one of an application assigned to the electronic device or an application received from an external electronic device e.g. the server or the electronic device .

The input output interface may deliver commands or data entered by a user through an input output unit e.g. a sensor a keyboard or a touch screen to the processor the memory the communication interface or the application control module via the bus . For example the input output interface may offer data about a user s touch entered through the touch screen to the processor . Also through the input output unit e.g. a speaker or a display the input output interface may output commands or data received from the processor the memory the communication interface or the application control module via the bus . For example the input output interface may output voice data processed through the processor to a user through the speaker.

The display may display thereon various kinds of information e.g. multimedia data text data etc. to a user.

The communication interface may perform a communication between the electronic device and any external electronic device e.g. the electronic device of the server . For example the communication interface may communicate with any external device by being connected with a network through a wired or wireless communication. A wireless communication may include but not limited to at least one of WiFi Wireless Fidelity BT Bluetooth NFC Near Field Communication GPS Global Positioning System or a cellular communication e.g. LTE LTE A CDMA WCDMA UMTS WiBro or GSM etc. . A wired communication may include but not limited to at least one of USB Universal Serial Bus HDMI High Definition Multimedia Interface RS 232 Recommended Standard 232 or POTS Plain Old Telephone Service .

According to an embodiment the network may be a communication network which may include at least one of a computer network an internet an intranet or a telephone network. According to an embodiment a protocol e.g. transport layer protocol data link layer protocol or physical layer protocol for a communication between the electronic device and any external device may be supported by at least one of the application the API the middleware the kernel or the communication interface .

The application control module may process at least part of information obtained from the other elements e.g. the processor the memory the input output interface or the communication interface etc. and then offer it to a user in various ways. For example the application control module may recognize information about access components equipped in the electronic device store such information in the memory and execute the application on the basis of such information. A further description about the application control module will be given hereinafter referring to .

The AP may drive an operating system or applications control a plurality of hardware or software components connected thereto and also perform processing and operation for various data including multimedia data. The AP may be formed of system on chip SoC for example. According to an embodiment the AP may further include a graphic processing unit GPU not shown .

The communication module e.g. the communication interface may perform a data communication with any other electronic device e.g. the electronic device or the server connected to the electronic device e.g. the electronic device through the network. According to an embodiment the communication module may include therein a cellular module a WiFi module a BT module a GPS module an NFC module and an RF Radio Frequency module .

The cellular module may offer a voice call a video call a message service an internet service or the like through a communication network e.g. LTE LTE A CDMA WCDMA UMTS WiBro or GSM etc. . Additionally the cellular module may perform identification and authentication of the electronic device in the communication network using the SIM card . According to an embodiment the cellular module may perform at least part of functions the AP can provide. For example the cellular module may perform at least part of a multimedia control function.

According to an embodiment the cellular module may include a communication processor CP . Additionally the cellular module may be formed of SoC for example. Although some elements such as the cellular module e.g. the CP the memory or the power management module are shown as separate elements being different from the AP in the AP may be formed to have at least part e.g. the cellular module of the above elements in an embodiment.

According to an embodiment the AP or the cellular module e.g. the CP may load commands or data received from a nonvolatile memory connected thereto or from at least one of the other elements into a volatile memory to process them. Additionally the AP or the cellular module may store data received from or created at one or more of the other elements in the nonvolatile memory.

Each of the WiFi module the BT module the GPS module and the NFC module may include a processor for processing data transmitted or received therethrough. Although shows the cellular module the WiFi module the BT module the GPS module and the NFC module as different blocks at least part of them may be contained in a single IC Integrated Circuit chip or a single IC package in an embodiment. For example at least part e.g. the CP corresponding to the cellular module and a WiFi processor corresponding to the WiFi module of respective processors corresponding to the cellular module the WiFi module the BT module the GPS module and the NFC module may be formed as a single SoC.

The RF module may transmit and receive data e.g. RF signals or any other electric signals. Although not shown the RF module may include a transceiver a PAM Power Amp Module a frequency filter an LNA Low Noise Amplifier or the like. Also the RF module may include any component e.g. a wire or a conductor for transmission of electromagnetic waves in a free air space. Although shows that the cellular module the WiFi module the BT module the GPS module and the NFC module share the RF module at least one of them may perform transmission and reception of RF signals through a separate RF module in an embodiment.

The SIM card   to  N may be a specific card formed of SIM and may be inserted into a slot   to  N formed at a certain place of the electronic device. The SIM card   to  N may contain therein an ICCID Integrated Circuit Card IDentifier or an IMSI International Mobile Subscriber Identity .

The memory e.g. the memory may include an internal memory and an external memory . The internal memory may include for example at least one of a volatile memory e.g. DRAM Dynamic RAM SRAM Static RAM SDRAM Synchronous DRAM etc. or a nonvolatile memory e.g. OTPROM One Time Programmable ROM PROM Programmable ROM EPROM Erasable and Programmable ROM EEPROM Electrically Erasable and Programmable ROM mask ROM flash ROM NAND flash memory NOR flash memory etc. .

According to an embodiment the internal memory may have the form of an SSD Solid State Drive . The external memory may include a flash drive e.g. CF Compact Flash SD Secure Digital Micro SD Micro Secure Digital Mini SD Mini Secure Digital xD eXtreme Digital memory stick or the like. The external memory may be functionally connected to the electronic device through various interfaces. According to an embodiment the electronic device may further include a storage device or medium such as a hard drive.

The sensor module may measure physical quantity or sense an operating status of the electronic device and then convert measured or sensed information into electric signals. The sensor module may include for example at least one of a gesture sensor A a gyro sensor B an atmospheric sensor C a magnetic sensor D an acceleration sensor E a grip sensor F a proximity sensor G a color sensor H e.g. RGB Red Green Blue sensor a biometric sensor I a temperature humidity sensor J an illumination sensor K and a UV ultraviolet sensor M. Additionally or alternatively the sensor module may include e.g. an E nose sensor not shown an EMG electromyography sensor not shown an EEG electroencephalogram sensor not shown an ECG electrocardiogram sensor not shown an IR infrared sensor not shown an iris scan sensor not shown or a finger scan sensor not shown . Also the sensor module may include a control circuit for controlling one or more sensors equipped therein.

The input unit may include a touch panel a digital pen sensor a key or an ultrasonic input unit . The touch panel may recognize a touch input in a manner of capacitive type resistive type infrared type or ultrasonic type. Also the touch panel may further include a control circuit. In case of a capacitive type a physical contact or proximity may be recognized. The touch panel may further include a tactile layer. In this case the touch panel may offer a tactile feedback to a user.

The digital pen sensor may be formed in the same or similar manner as receiving a touch input or by using a separate recognition sheet. The key may include for example a physical button an optical key or a keypad. The ultrasonic input unit is a specific device capable of identifying data by sensing sound waves with a microphone in the electronic device through an input tool that generates ultrasonic signals thus allowing wireless recognition. According to an embodiment the electronic device may receive a user input from any external device e.g. a computer or a server connected thereto through the communication module .

The display e.g. the display may include a panel a hologram or a projector . The panel may be for example a LCD Liquid Crystal Display an AM OLED Active Matrix Organic Light Emitting Diode or the like. The panel may have a flexible transparent or wearable form. The panel may be formed of a single module with the touch panel . The hologram may show a stereoscopic image in the air using interference of light. The projector may project an image onto a screen which may be located at the inside or outside of the electronic device . According to an embodiment the display may further include a control circuit for controlling the panel the hologram and the projector .

The interface may include for example an HDMI High Definition Multimedia Interface a USB Universal Serial Bus an optical interface or a D sub D subminiature . The interface may be contained for example in the communication interface shown in . Additionally or alternatively the interface may include for example an MHL Mobile High definition Link interface an SD Secure Digital card MMC Multi Media Card interface or an IrDA Infrared Data Association interface.

The audio module may perform a conversion between sounds and electric signals. At least part of the audio module may be contained for example in the input output interface shown in . The audio module may process sound information inputted or outputted through a speaker a receiver an earphone or a microphone .

The camera module is a device capable of obtaining still images and moving images. According to an embodiment the camera module may include at least one image sensor e.g. a front sensor or a rear sensor a lens not shown an ISP Image Signal Processor not shown or a flash e.g. LED or xenon lamp not shown .

The power management module may manage electric power of the electronic device . Although not shown the power management module may include for example a PMIC Power Management Integrated Circuit a charger IC and or a battery or fuel gauge.

The PMIC may be formed for example of an IC chip or SoC. Charging may be performed in a wired or wireless manner. The charger IC may charge a battery and prevent overvoltage or overcurrent from a charger. According to an embodiment the charger IC may have a charger IC used for at least one of wired and wireless charging types. A wireless charging type may include for example a magnetic resonance type a magnetic induction type or an electromagnetic type. Any additional circuit for a wireless charging may be further used such as a coil loop a resonance circuit or a rectifier.

The battery gauge may measure the residual amount of the battery and a voltage current or temperature in a charging process. The battery may store or create electric power therein and supply electric power to the electronic device . The battery may be for example a rechargeable battery or a solar battery.

The indicator may show thereon a current status e.g. a booting status a message status or a recharging status of the electronic device or of its part e.g. the AP . The motor may convert an electric signal into a mechanical vibration. Although not shown the electronic device may include a specific processor e.g. GPU for supporting a mobile TV. This processor may process media data that comply with standards of DMB Digital Multimedia Broadcasting DVB Digital Video Broadcasting or media flow.

Each of the above discussed elements of the electronic device disclosed herein may be formed of one or more components and its name may be varied according to the type of the electronic device. The electronic device disclosed herein may be formed of at least one of the above discussed elements without some elements or with additional other elements. Some of the elements may be integrated into a single entity that still performs the same functions as those of such elements before integrated.

The term module used in this disclosure may refer to a certain unit that includes one of hardware software and firmware or any combination thereof. The module may be interchangeably used with unit logic logical block component or circuit for example. The module may be the minimum unit or part thereof which performs one or more particular functions. The module may be formed mechanically or electronically. For example the module disclosed herein may include at least one of ASIC Application Specific Integrated Circuit chip FPGAs Field Programmable Gate Arrays and programmable logic device which have been known or are to be developed.

According to an exemplary embodiment of the present disclosure it is assumed that the input device is a home key of an electronic device. However in exemplary embodiments of the present disclosure the input device is not limited to a home key and may include an external interface e.g. an earphone interface a power source interface and a volume interface . The input device may include a function in which the input unit or the interface e.g. a keypad and a hardware key performs.

According to an exemplary embodiment of the present disclosure the input device may include the connector and the switch .

The connector may recognize a connection to an external device. When the external device is mounted in the connector a connection terminal of the connector may recognize this and transfer a connection state through a contact point of a substrate . The substrate may transfer information about the transferred connection state to the AP . For example when a battery charge device a Universal Serial Bus USB cable device and an earphone device are mounted in the connector the connection terminal of the connector may transfer information about a connection of the external device to the AP through the substrate .

According to an exemplary embodiment of the present disclosure the switch may include a dome connection terminals and of the switch and a condensation protrusion .

According to an exemplary embodiment when a physical input of a threshold pressure or more is pressed the switch may connect an electrical signal. Here a physical input of a threshold pressure or more may be a minimum pressure that can connect an electrical signal. Here a physical input may be an input by a force e.g. a pressing force of a user a force pressing using an external material transferred from the outside. For example when elasticity of the dome of the switch is changed according to a physical input e.g. pressing of a user the switch may be electrically connected e.g. short to contact points and of the substrate . When a physical input to the switch is released the switch is restored in an original form to release an electrical connection to the contact points and of the substrate .

Here a connection of an electrical signal may be a connection of a signal that detects a user input when a user applies a pressure e.g. a hardware input event to an input device e.g. a home key . When the AP receives a connection of an electrical signal through the substrate the AP may perform a function corresponding to a connection of the electrical signal. For example when a physical input is detected through the switch the AP may display a predetermined function e.g. an image a text and an earphone interface in the display .

According to an exemplary embodiment the switch may be located in an upper end portion of the connector . For example the switch may be disposed in the upper end portion of the connector using at least one method of a detachable tape a molding method for fixing and a coupling method of fastening and fixing the switch at a predetermined location. The switch may be disposed at the center or one side surface of the upper end portion of the connector . According to an exemplary embodiment a surface of the connector may be a surface e.g. a step shaped surface 30 inclined surface 45 inclined surface including a tilt and a curve of the connector as well as a flat plane.

According to an exemplary embodiment the switch may be formed integrally with the connector . According to an exemplary embodiment the electronic devices and may include an input recognition module that has a surface that covers a hole that can insert the external device and in which a surface extending a covering surface is formed in an insertion direction of the external device based on the surface that covers the hole and in which the switch is formed at a side surface of the extended surface to have a form of a convex surface. Here the hole may have a form of a circle a rectangle a trapezoid a form having at least one curve and a curved portion having symmetry e.g. a lateral form a vertical form and southeast and northwest forms are the same .

According to an exemplary embodiment the switch may be formed on a plane of an extended surface. Here a surface in which the switch is formed may be an upper end portion e.g. a widest surface among an area of the extended surface a surface of a direction bent by 90 or 270 based on a direction in which the external device is mounted of an extended surface. For example a surface in which the switch is formed may be a flat surface among extended surfaces.

According to an exemplary embodiment the extended surface and the switch are integrally formed and only a form of the dome may be a protruded form. According to an exemplary embodiment an input recognition module may have the same form as that of the integrated switch and connector .

According to an exemplary embodiment the switch may be located at the center or one side surface of the upper end portion of the connector .

According to an exemplary embodiment of the present disclosure the switch may be formed in a form of a dome pattern switch or a dome sheet. The switch may be a Dual In line Package DIP type in which a plurality of connection terminals and are protruded to a side surface a Surface Mount Device SMD and a Single In line Package SIP type in which a single connection terminal or is mounted. By applying Surface Mount Technology SMT the switch may be located at an upper end portion of the connector .

According to an exemplary embodiment of the present disclosure the dome of the switch may be formed in a dome shape e.g. a convex shape a cylindrical shape a hemispherical shape and a cone shape . Because the dome should repeatedly move upward and downward the dome may be preferably both durability and elasticity. According to an exemplary embodiment the dome may be a metal dome.

According to an exemplary embodiment of the present disclosure a condensation protrusion may be located at an upper end portion of the dome . When the user presses the condensation protrusion the condensation protrusion may condensate and transfer a pressure transferred from the outside. Because the condensation protrusion should repeatedly move upward and downward through an external input e.g. a keypad a home key the condensation protrusion may be preferably both durability and elasticity. In order to relieve an impact of an input the condensation protrusion may be made of an elastic material.

According to an exemplary embodiment the condensation protrusion may be formed with a synthetic polymer compound such as silicon polycarbonate acryl based urethane based and UV.

According to an exemplary embodiment of the present disclosure the substrate may include a Printed Circuit Board PCB . The substrate may be connected to the connection terminals and of the switch and may be mounted at a surface at which the switch is not located. For example while the substrate is located at an upper end portion of the connector the substrate may be mounted at a surface at which the switch is not located or while the substrate is not located at an upper end portion of the connector the substrate may be mounted at a surface at which the switch is not located.

According to various exemplary embodiments as shown in when the substrate and the connection terminals and of the switch are extended and are connected to one another along a plane e.g. in a linear direction or a constant direction and the substrate may be located at a side surface of the switch . For example the substrate may define a plane e.g. an area of the upper end portion of the connector is empty except for the upper end portion of the connector . According to an exemplary embodiment the substrate may define a flat plane and some elements of the substrate may be formed in a step shape.

As shown in the connection terminal e.g. a hole a connection point of the switch may be fastened to the first contact point e.g. a hole a connection point of the substrate bored at a predetermined surface of the substrate and the connection terminal of the switch may be fastened to the second contact point e.g. a hole a connection point of the substrate . By fastening the connection terminals and of the switch to the first contact point and the second contact point of the substrate the switch and the substrate may be connected.

According to an exemplary embodiment in order to fasten the switch and the substrate by fastening a predetermined device the substrate may define a plane including an empty space corresponding to an area of the switch and an area of the contact points and . According to an exemplary embodiment the substrate may define a plane in which an area larger than that of the switch is cut e.g. cutting etching . For example as the switch and the substrate are fastened the substrate may be located at the upper end portion of the connector .

According to an exemplary embodiment of the present disclosure the input device may include a connector switch substrate key base and protection portion .

According to an exemplary embodiment in the upper end portion of the connector the switch may be located. The connector may include a connection terminal . When the external device e.g. an USB interface an earphone device is mounted the connection terminal of the connector may detect a signal and transfer the signal to the contact point of the substrate . The substrate may transfer the transferred signal to the AP as a signal notifying that the external interface is mounted.

In an upper portion of the switch the key base may be located. The key base may be separated from the condensation protrusion by a predetermined distance.

According to an exemplary embodiment the key base includes a home key and is located at an upper portion of the switch to transfer a pressing force of the user to the switch . The key base is located in an upper portion of the switch to press the switch . Further the key base may include a pressing protrusion separated by a predetermined distance. The pressing protrusion may be formed in a protrusion form for pressing the switch .

According to an exemplary embodiment while the substrate is located at the upper end portion of the connector the substrate may be mounted at a surface at which the switch is not located. In this case the pressing protrusion may press the switch protruded to an area bored e.g. drilled to have a hole at a predetermined surface of the substrate . For example a predetermined area of the substrate may be bored by cutting or etching. The pressing protrusion may press the switch protruded to a bored area of the substrate .

According to an exemplary embodiment the key base may include movement prevention portions and for preventing a lateral movement at both sides of the pressing protrusion . For example the movement prevention portions and may be attached to the substrate . The movement prevention portions and may have elasticity and in a state in which a pressure is not applied the movement prevention portions and maintain a shape and when a pressure is applied the movement prevention portions and may be restored to an original state. For example the movement prevention portions and may be made of the same material as that of the key base and may be an elastic material e.g. rubber spring high elastic sponge and compression sponge etc. .

According to an exemplary embodiment the key base may be made of a flexible material e.g. rubber silicon etc. . According to an exemplary embodiment of the present disclosure the protection portion may be mounted to cover the connector except for a surface at which the switch is located. According to an exemplary embodiment the protection portion may be mounted to cover only a side surface of the switch . The protection portion may block or reduce physical injection of substances e.g. liquid gas and or impurities from the outside or a vibration which may be caused by external forces such as for example external pressure or an impact. For example the protection portion may be formed with rubber or Epoxy Molding Compound EMC molding. According to an exemplary embodiment when the protection portion covers planes in which the switch of the connector is not located the substrate may be located at an upper end portion of the protection portion .

According to an exemplary embodiment of the present disclosure in the electronic devices and the input device that detects a signal input from the outside may include the connector that recognizes a connection of an external device. Further the input device is located at an upper end portion of the connector and when a physical input of a threshold pressure or more is pressed the input device may include the switch that connects an electrical signal. Further the input device may include the substrate connected to the connection terminals and of the switch and mounted at a surface at which the switch is not located. Further the input device may include the key base located at an upper end portion of the switch and that presses the switch .

According to an exemplary embodiment of the present disclosure the electronic devices and or may include an input recognition module that has the hole in which an external device can be inserted and may include a surface that covers the hole and the inserted external device and extends in an insertion direction of the external device. The switch may be formed at a side surface of the extended surface and may be formed to have a convex surface. When the external device is inserted the input recognition module recognizes a connection of the external device and when a physical input of a threshold pressure or more is pressed to the switch the input recognition module may connect an electrical signal.

According to various exemplary embodiments at least a portion of a method e.g. operations or a device e.g. modules or functions thereof according to the present disclosure may be implemented with an instruction stored at computer readable storage media in a form of for example a programming module. When the instruction is executed by at least one processor e.g. the processor the at least one processor may perform a function corresponding to the instruction. The computer readable storage media may be for example the memory . At least a portion of the programming module may be implemented e.g. executed by for example the processor . At least a portion of the programming module may include for example a module a program a routine sets of instructions or a process for performing at least one function.

The computer readable storage media may include magnetic media such as a hard disk floppy disk and magnetic tape optical media such as a Compact Disc Read Only memory CD ROM and a Digital Versatile Disc DVD magneto optical media such as a floptical disk and a hardware device specially formed to store and perform a program instruction e.g. a programming module such as a Read Only memory ROM a Random Access memory RAM and a flash memory. Further a program instruction may include a high level language code that may be executed by a computer using an interpreter as well as a machine language code generated by a compiler. In order to perform operation of the present disclosure the above described hardware device may be formed to operate as at least one software module and vice versa.

A module or a programming module according to the present disclosure may include at least one of the foregoing constituent elements may omit some constituent elements or may further include additional other constituent elements. Operations performed by a module a programming module or another constituent element according to the present disclosure may be executed with a sequential parallel repeated or heuristic method. Further some operations may be executed in different orders may be omitted or may add other operations.

As described above in an input device according to various exemplary embodiments of the present disclosure by integrally forming a connector and a switch the input device can have a small thickness.

An input device according to various exemplary embodiments of the present disclosure can add a structure that performs various functions by reducing a thickness thereof.

Although exemplary embodiments of the present disclosure have been described in detail hereinabove it should be clearly understood that many variations and modifications of the basic inventive concepts herein described which may appear to those skilled in the art will still fall within the spirit and scope of the exemplary embodiments of the present disclosure as defined in the appended claims.

