---

title: Asset management service for distributed computing environments
abstract: Concepts and technologies are disclosed herein for an asset management service. The asset management service can receive asset record creation requests and can store asset records at an asset data repository. The asset records can identify assets and associated information such as, for example, asset identifiers, personnel, organizations, users, geographic locations, time and date information, status information, or the like. A user device can execute an asset management application to generate asset tags including the asset identifiers and to scan existing asset tags. When asset tags are scanned, the user device also can capture device and/or user information that can be used to set a status or provide available status choices. Status updates can be provided to the asset management service for updating of the asset records.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09454746&OS=09454746&RS=09454746
owner: AT&T Intellectual Property I, L.P.
number: 09454746
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20151215
---
This application is a continuation of and claims priority to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 677 867 entitled Asset Management Service for Distributed Computing Environments filed Nov. 15 2012 now U.S. Pat. No. 9 218 586 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

This application relates generally to asset and object management and tracking. More specifically the disclosure provided herein relates to an asset management service for distributed computing environments.

Managing business or personal assets can be expensive. For businesses asset management can be an expensive and resource consuming part of the business. Some companies may create or purchase expensive asset control systems. These systems may track assets by serial numbers identification numbers and or other identifiers. These and other information associated with the assets may be stored in a database or other data files.

In some instances asset management systems may use custom labels. The custom labels may include for example bar code labels UPC labels serial number labels or the like. The labels also can include radio frequency identification RFID tags or other devices that may be affixed to the assets. The labels can include information identifying the asset. Thus identifying information on the labels may be manually read or scanned at various times for a number of reasons.

Some equipment for reading bar codes or the like may be expensive bulky and or may pose health or environmental hazards. Thus some businesses continue to employ manual processes for managing assets. Manually reading or otherwise managing asset information as well as entering and or tracking the asset information may be cost prohibitive in terms of manual labor opportunity costs or the like. Furthermore manual processes may be prone to human error fraud and or may be time consuming. As such these and other approaches for managing assets may be of little to no use for many business and or individuals.

Similarly enabling asset management and tracking across geographically distributed locations can be challenging. For example some business may operate across multiple environments states countries and or even continents that may or may not have network or power infrastructure suitable for enabling asset management and or tracking. In particular providing a distributed information technology IT solution for such distributed environments may be expensive may require international network links and or otherwise may be expensive in terms of resources.

The present disclosure is directed to an asset and or other object management and tracking service asset management service . The asset management service can be operated in a cloud computing or other distributed computing environment. An asset management service can be executed on a computing device and or can be executed across a distributed computing platform as a service. In some embodiments the asset management service can be executed as an application by an asset management engine. The asset management service can be called via a number of application programming interfaces APIs exposed by the asset management engine and or may be interacted with via an asset management application executing on a user device such as a computer a smart phone or the like. The APIs of the asset management service also can enable the asset management service to communicate with other systems such as for example geographic information systems GIS enterprise resource planning ERP software systems and or applications logistics and or warehousing systems other systems or the like. These and or other systems can be embedded in various systems and or in the asset management service as modules. As such some example embodiments of the concepts and technologies disclosed herein can enable a user or other entity to select an object in an ERP software application and track transactions and or other activities associated with the object. It should be understood that this embodiment is illustrative and should not be construed as being limiting in any way.

The user device via execution of the asset management application can be used to create or request creation of asset records records . The records can be stored at an asset data repository that can be associated with the asset management service. In particular a user or other entity can identify new assets assign or generate an asset identifier for the asset specify personnel organizations and or users who can modify status information of the asset provide location and or date information provide available status updates for the asset and or otherwise define the asset and or the associated asset record. The user device also can be configured to print asset tags labels or other indicia that can be affixed to the assets. Data from the asset tags also can be scanned or otherwise captured to allow updating of the records.

The user device also can include an identifier capture device for capturing an asset identifier from an asset tag or other indicia. In addition to capturing the asset identifier the user device also can capture device and or user information. The device and or user information can include but is not limited to geographic location information user information device identification information time and date information or the like. These and other data can be provided to the asset management service and the asset management service can provide a list of available status updates associated with the asset. A user or other entity may select modify or update a status associated with the asset and can provide the status to the asset management service for updating of the associated record. In some embodiments the asset management service can be configured to update the status without presenting a list of events and or receiving data indicating a selection of a status since a scan of the asset tag may provide information used to update the associated record.

Thus embodiments of the concepts and technologies disclosed herein can be used to simplify and or reduce the costs of asset management. As used herein the term asset can refer to a tangible good such as a product or a capital asset. The term asset also can be used to refer to a service that is sold managed or otherwise tracked by an individual or business. Thus for example a dry cleaner may track employee interactions with an article of clothing by affixing an asset tag to the article of clothing and instructing employees to scan the asset tag when interactions with the article of clothing occur. Because other types of assets are possible and are contemplated it should be understood that this embodiment is illustrative and should not be construed as being limiting in any way.

According to one aspect of the concepts and technologies disclosed herein a method is disclosed. The method can include obtaining at a user device executing an asset management application an asset identifier including information identifying an asset capturing device data the device data including data indicating a geographic location associated with the user device capturing event data the event data identifying a status of the asset and transmitting the asset identifier the device data and the event data to an asset management engine.

In some embodiments the asset identifier can be obtained from image information associated with an asset tag attached to the asset. The asset tag also can be generated at the user device. In some embodiments the generating the asset tag can include generating the asset identifier obtaining asset information and requesting printing of the asset tag. Generating the asset tag also can include transmitting the asset identifier and asset information to an asset management service for creation of an asset record associated with the asset. In some embodiments the asset tag can include a two dimensional barcode. Obtaining the asset identifier can include presenting a user interface for scanning the asset tag to extract the asset identifier from the two dimensional barcode recognizing the two dimensional barcode capturing image information associated with the two dimensional barcode and extracting the asset identifier from the image information. In some embodiments the device data can include a device identifier associated with the user device. The device data also can include user credentials associated with a user of the user device. In some embodiments capturing the event data can include providing the asset identifier to the asset management engine receiving a list of events associated with the asset identifier and selecting the status from the list of events.

According to another aspect of the concepts and technologies disclosed herein a device is disclosed. The device can include a processor and a memory that stores computer executable instructions. When the instructions are executed by the processor the processor can perform operations that include obtaining an asset identifier including information identifying an asset capturing device data that includes data identifying a geographic location of the device generating event data identifying a status of the asset and transmitting the asset identifier the device data and the event data to an asset management service.

In some embodiments the device also can include an imaging system that captures an image of an asset tag that includes indicia representing the asset identifier and the image system can extract the asset identifier from the image. The device also can include a cellular transceiver that communicates with the asset management service and the asset management service can include an application executing on a server computer. The device also can include a global positioning system device that determines the geographic location. In some embodiments capturing the device data can include capturing a unique identifier that identifies the device and user data including a credential associated with a user of the device and the event data can be selected from a list of events obtained from the asset management service. In some embodiments the device also can provide the asset identifier to the asset management engine to generate a list of events associated with the asset identifier. The asset management engine can generate the list by searching two or more asset records stored at an asset data repository for asset records associated with the asset identifier and can identify the events based upon the asset records. The device also can receive a list of events from the asset management service and select the status from the list of events. In some embodiments the device further includes a printer that prints an asset tag including indicia representing the asset identifier.

According to yet another aspect a computer storage medium is disclosed. The computer storage medium can have computer executable instructions stored thereon that when executed by a processor cause the processor to perform operations. The operations can include obtaining an asset identifier that identifies an asset with device data including data indicating a geographic location associated with the asset and event data identifying a status of the asset generating a list of events associated with the asset identifier the list of events being based at least partially upon the asset identifier the geographic location and the status and providing the list of events to a device for selecting a status of the asset.

In some embodiments the computer storage medium can further include computer executable instructions that when executed by the processor cause the processor to perform operations for searching for asset records associated with the asset identifier identifying events for an asset associated with the asset identifier the events being based upon the asset records generating the list of events based upon the asset records and receiving a selection of the status at the device. The computer storage medium can further include computer executable instructions that when executed by the processor cause the processor to present a user interface via which the asset tag can be scanned to extract the asset identifier from an asset tag attached to the asset. The user interface can include a user interface control for scanning the asset tag. In some embodiments the computer storage medium can further include computer executable instructions that when executed by the processor cause the processor to present a further user interface via which the status of the asset can be indicated. The further user interface can include user interface controls for editing the status of the asset verifying the geographic location and selecting personnel associated with the status.

Other systems methods and or computer program products according to embodiments will be or become apparent to one with skill in the art upon review of the following drawings and detailed description. It is intended that all such additional systems methods and or computer program products be included within this description be within the scope of this disclosure.

The following detailed description is directed to an asset management service. The asset management service can be executed in a cloud computing environment other distributed computing environments as well as on local or isolated computing environments. The asset management service can be executed on a computing device such as a server computer and or can be executed across a distributed computing platform as a cloud service. The asset management service can be called via a number of APIs exposed by an asset management engine that executes the asset management service. The asset management service also may be interacted with via an asset management application executing on a user device such as a computer a smart phone or other computing devices.

The APIs of the asset management service also can enable the asset management service to communicate with other systems such as for example GIS software systems and or applications ERP software systems and or applications logistics and or warehousing software systems and or applications other software systems and or applications combinations thereof or the like. These and or other software systems and or applications can also be embedded in other systems and or in the asset management service as modules. As such some example embodiments of the concepts and technologies disclosed herein can include an asset management service that also includes GIS ERP logistics warehousing and or other capabilities described herein. It should be understood that this embodiment is illustrative and should not be construed as being limiting in any way.

The user device can execute the asset management application to create or request creation of asset records records that can be stored at an asset data repository. The asset data repository can be located at the asset management engine and or can be a data storage device accessible by the asset management service. Via the asset management application a user or other entity can identify assets assign or generate an asset identifier for the asset specify personnel organizations and or users who can modify status information of the asset provide geographic location or other location information provide date and or time information provide current anticipated and or available statuses for the asset and or otherwise define the asset and or the associated record. The user device also can be configured to print asset tags labels or other indicia that can be affixed to the assets and scanned or captured to allow updating of the records.

The user device also can include an identifier capture device. The identifier capture device can include an image system of the user device such as for example a camera or the like. The identifier capture device also can include a wireless transceiver for wirelessly capturing the asset identifier from an asset tag or the like. In addition to capturing the asset identifier the user device also can capture device and or user information. The device and or user information can include but is not limited to geographic location information user information device identification information time and or date information user credentials device identifiers passwords tokens or other authentication information or the like. These and other data can be provided to the asset management service and the asset management service can provide a list of available status updates associated with the asset. A user or other entity may select or input a status associated with the asset and provide the updated status to the asset management service for updating of the associated record.

While the subject matter described herein is presented in the general context of program modules that execute in conjunction with the execution of an operating system and application programs on a computer system those skilled in the art will recognize that other implementations may be performed in combination with other types of program modules. Generally program modules include routines programs components data structures and other types of structures that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Moreover those skilled in the art will appreciate that the subject matter described herein may be practiced with other computer system configurations including hand held devices multiprocessor systems microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics minicomputers mainframe computers and the like.

Referring now to aspects of an operating environment for various embodiments of the concepts and technologies disclosed herein for an asset management service for distributed computing environments will be described according to an illustrative embodiment. The operating environment shown in includes a user device operating in communication with and or as part of a communications network network . According to various embodiments the functionality of the user device may be provided by one or more cellular phones mobile telephones smartphones server computers desktop computers tablet computers laptop computers set top boxes other computing systems and the like. For purposes of describing the concepts and technologies disclosed herein the user device is described as a mobile telephone or a smartphone. It should be understood that this embodiment is illustrative and should not be construed as being limiting in any way.

The user device can execute an operating system and one or more application programs such as for example an asset management application . The operating system is a computer program for controlling the operation of the user device . The application programs can include various executable programs configured to execute on top of the operating system to provide various functions and or functionality. The asset management application is an executable program configured to execute on top of the operating system to provide various asset management functionality as described herein. In some embodiments one or more of the application programs can be configured to provide the functionality of the asset management application described herein. As such it should be understood that the asset management application can be included in other application programs and or that other application programs can be included in the asset management application . It therefore can be understood that the application programs and or the asset management application can include and or can provide functionality associated with one or more mapping navigation applications web browsers office productivity software media playback applications voice and or data communication applications diagnostic applications other applications combinations thereof or the like.

According to various embodiments of the concepts and technologies described herein the asset management application can be executed as a stand alone application at the user device . The asset management application also can be executed remotely from the user device and can be accessed using a Web application or other application executed at the user device . According to various embodiments the asset management application can be configured to generate obtain modify and or save various types of asset information as will be explained in more detail below.

In particular the user device can include one or more identifier capture devices . The identifier capture devices can be accessed and or controlled by the user device to capture scan and or otherwise obtain an asset identifier associated with one or more assets A N hereinafter collectively and or generically referred to as assets . The asset identifier can include various types of identifiers for identifying the assets . According to various embodiments the asset identifier can include a globally unique identifier GUID that can uniquely identify a particular asset an alphanumeric string that identifies a particular asset other identifying information associated with one or more assets or the like. Thus the asset identifier can include a serial number a model number a unique identifier and or other types of identifying information. To more clearly describe various embodiments of the concepts and technologies described herein the asset identifier is described herein as a unique identifier that can be assigned to an asset . Because other embodiments are possible and are contemplated it should be understood that this embodiment is illustrative and should not be construed as being limiting in any way.

In some embodiments the user device can determine or obtain the asset identifier associated with an asset using various optical scanning technologies. For example the identifier capture device can include a camera or other imaging devices of the user device and the asset identifier can be recognized extracted and or captured by scanning visual indicia affixed to the asset by way of a tag label or the like. According to some embodiments described herein the visual indicia can include a bar code or UPC symbol. According to some other embodiments the visual indicia can include a two dimensional 2D barcode such as a quick response code QR code . According to some other embodiments the visual indicia can include other types of 2D barcodes such as for example a MAXICODE a DATA MATRIX an EZCODE an AZTEC code a CODABLOCK barcode and or other matrix barcodes various multicolor codes such as a HIGH CAPACITY COLOR BARCODE and or a HUECODE combinations thereof or the like. Because the indicia can include almost any type of information for representing the asset identifier it should be understood that these embodiments are illustrative and should not be construed as being limiting in any way.

In some other embodiments the user device can determine or obtain the asset identifier associated with the asset using various wireless communication technologies. For example the asset can include a tag or label with embedded wireless communications devices such as radio frequency identification RFID devices near field communications NFC devices and or the like. As such the identifier capture devices can include in some embodiments radio transmitters infrared transmitters combinations thereof or the like. For purposes of describing the concepts and technologies described herein the identifier capture device is described herein as a camera or other imaging device and the indicia are described herein as tags or labels that include a QR code that can be scanned or captured by the identifier capture device to recognize the asset identifier . In light of the above examples of indicia and identifier capture devices it should be understood that this embodiment is illustrative and should not be construed as being limiting in any way.

The asset management application can be configured to access and or activate the identifier capture device to capture an asset identifier associated with an asset . The asset management application also can be configured to capture various information associated with the user device and or a user or other entity operating the user device when the asset identifier is captured or scanned. In particular the user device can include various location devices and or software for determining a geographic location of the user device . As such the asset management application can be configured to obtain geographic location information from these and or other devices when the asset identifier is captured or scanned.

The asset management application also can be configured to capture time and or date information from the user device and or from one or more network devices in communication with the user device via the network . As such the asset management application can be configured to capture time and date information when the asset identifier is captured or scanned. Other information also can be captured by the asset management application such as for example event data that can include location information time information asset information type of activity information user credentials network connection information device orientation information and or other sensor information obtained from various sensors of the user device such as for example ambient temperature pressure altitude speed and or other conditions combinations thereof or the like. The various data that can be captured by the asset management application are described in additional detail below particularly with reference to .

In addition to capturing these and other types of information with the capturing of the asset identifier the asset management application also can package and or bundle the information and communicate the information to other devices systems or software as data for additional operations and or functionality. As shown in the data can be exchanged by the user device with an asset management engine and or an asset management service executed by or at the asset management engine . The asset management engine can be configured via execution of the asset management service to capture the data to store the data and or portions of the data in an asset data repository and or to respond with information relating to the asset for various functions at the user device as will be explained in more detail below.

According to various embodiments the asset data repository can be maintained as a database or other data structure at a data store . The functionality of the data store can be provided by one or more databases server computers desktop computers mobile telephones laptop computers other computing systems or the like. The asset data repository can include data representing a number of asset records records A N hereinafter collectively and or generically referred to as records . The records can be created modified and or stored by the asset management service based upon the data exchanged with the user device and or based upon other information. In some embodiments the asset management service can maintain information associated with assets as the records and can obtain various types and or categories of information to the user device in response to receiving the asset identifier from the user device . These embodiments are illustrated and described in more detail below.

As shown in the records can include information identifying one or more asset identifiers one or more organizations one or more users one or more locations including but not limited to one or more geographic locations and or one or more network locations one or more events one or more actions one or more dates or times times one or more devices and or other information. As such the records can identify any number of assets users actions events and or other information for any number of tenants organizations and or users. In response to receiving information identifying a particular asset identifier the asset management service can identify records relating to the asset identifier provide available information to the user device receive and store status updates and or take other actions as illustrated and described in more detail below. These and other functions of the asset management service will be more clearly understood with reference to below.

As shown in the asset management service and or the asset management engine can be configured to expose one or more application programming interfaces APIs . The APIs can be exposed to allow the asset management service to be accessed by and or to allow the asset management service to access various resources A N hereinafter collectively and or generically referred to as resources . The resources can include various software systems and or applications such as for example GIS software systems and or applications ERP software systems and or applications logistics and or warehousing software systems and or applications other software systems and or applications combinations thereof or the like. These and or other embodiments of the resources also can be embedded in the asset management service as modules. As such some example embodiments of the asset management service disclosed herein can include GIS ERP logistics warehousing and or other capabilities. It should be understood that this embodiment is illustrative and should not be construed as being limiting in any way.

Briefly the user device can be configured generate or assign an asset identifier to a particular asset . The asset identifier can be created at the user device in response to user input or can be received at the user device from other devices or services such as the asset management service . In some embodiments the user device can be configured to generate asset tags labels or other indicia that can be printed in tangible form by printers or other devices in communication with the user device via wireless and or wired connections. Thus a user or other entity associated with the user device can activate the asset management application to generate and or print tags labels or the like for representing the asset identifier . The user or other entity can affix the tags labels or the like to the assets .

In some embodiments the asset tags labels and or other indicia representing the asset identifiers can be produced in bulk by a user or other entity. For example in some embodiments the asset management service can include a web interface. A user or other entity can access the web interface to generate the asset identifiers in bulk. Thus users or other entities can order asset tags labels or the like in bulk if desired. It should be understood that this embodiment is illustrative and should not be construed as being limiting in any way.

The user device also can capture asset identifiers from assets and update status information associated with the asset . Thus embodiments of the concepts and technologies described herein can provide a cloud based logistics platform for tracking movement and or other actions or statuses associated with the assets . In particular the user device can capture an asset identifier and transmit data representing the asset identifier to an asset management engine in communication with the user device . As explained above various device user and or environmental conditions can also be captured by the user device and shared with the asset management engine as or with the data . In addition to geographic location information time information date information sensor information and the like the user device also can capture user identity and or authentication information. The user and or device information can be used to authenticate the user device and or a user associated with the user device with the asset management engine for storage at the asset data repository to determine and or obtain actions or events available for a particular asset at a particular time and or location and or for other purposes as described in more detail herein.

Additionally the user and or device information can be used to determine what functionality of the asset management engine is available in a particular interaction. In some embodiments the user and or device information also can be used by the asset management engine to determine events or actions available for an asset associated with an asset identifier scanned or captured by the user device based on a user a device identity authentication information credentials or the like. In some embodiments the user and or device information includes device based authentication information such as for example an international mobile subscriber identity IMSI an international mobile equipment identity IMEI a media access control MAC address a unique device identifier UDID a serial number a phone number an email address a user name other device identifiers combinations thereof or the like. In some other embodiments the user and or device information includes information generated by the asset management application such as tokens user IDs passwords and or other software application authentication information. In some other embodiments the user and or device information includes a combination of device identifiers and or user identification information. Thus the asset management engine can be configured to determine a user organization and or device associated with a particular asset and or asset event.

The asset management engine can search or request a search of the asset data repository to identify records associated with the asset identifier . Based upon the records and the data submitted to the asset management engine the asset management engine can identify one or more events or actions. The event or actions can include for example creation of an asset beginning of manufacturing packaging of the asset shipping of the asset delivery of the asset movement of the asset other events or actions or the like. These events or actions can be identified by the asset management engine as available or possible statuses based upon the data and the records . Thus in response to receiving the data from the user device the asset management engine can provide one or more possible statuses to the user device . In some embodiments the statuses events or actions can be provided as a list of events or actions. It should be understood that this embodiment is illustrative and should not be construed as being limiting in any way.

The user device can present the statuses or events at the user device and obtain a selection of one or more of the statuses or events. The user device can again provide the data to the asset management engine wherein the data can identify the status selected at the user device . The asset management engine can update the asset data repository and or records stored therein based upon the data . As such the asset management engine can maintain information stored at the asset data repository that indicates a current status of any number of assets . These and other aspects of the concepts and technologies described herein for providing an asset management service for distributed computing environments are described in more detail below.

Turning now to aspects of a method for creating asset information for an asset management service will be described in detail according to an illustrative embodiment. It should be understood that the operations of the methods disclosed herein are not necessarily presented in any particular order and that performance of some or all of the operations in an alternative order s is possible and is contemplated. The operations have been presented in the demonstrated order for ease of description and illustration. Operations may be added omitted and or performed simultaneously without departing from the scope of the concepts and technologies disclosed herein.

It also should be understood that the methods disclosed herein can be ended at any time and need not be performed in its entirety. Some or all operations of the methods and or substantially equivalent operations can be performed by execution of computer readable instructions included on a computer storage media as defined herein. The term computer readable instructions and variants thereof as used herein is used expansively to include routines applications application modules program modules programs components data structures algorithms and the like. Computer readable instructions can be implemented on various system configurations including single processor or multiprocessor systems minicomputers mainframe computers personal computers hand held computing devices microprocessor based programmable consumer electronics combinations thereof and the like.

Thus it should be appreciated that the logical operations described herein are implemented 1 as a sequence of computer implemented acts or program modules running on a computing system and or 2 as interconnected machine logic circuits or circuit modules within the computing system. The implementation is a matter of choice dependent on the performance and other requirements of the computing system. Accordingly the logical operations described herein are referred to variously as states operations structural devices acts or modules. These states operations structural devices acts and modules may be implemented in software in firmware in special purpose digital logic and any combination thereof. As used herein the phrase cause a processor to perform operations and variants thereof is used to refer to causing a processor of a computing system or device such as the user device and or the asset management engine to perform one or more operations and or causing the processor to direct other components of the computing system or device to perform one or more of the operations.

For purposes of illustrating and describing the concepts of the present disclosure the method is described as being performed by the user device via execution of one or more software modules such as for example the asset management application . It should be understood that additional and or alternative devices and or network nodes can provide the functionality described herein via execution of one or more modules applications and or other software including but not limited to the asset management application . Thus the illustrated embodiments are illustrative and should not be viewed as being limiting in any way.

The method begins at operation wherein the user device receives a request to create an asset record. The user device can receive input for creating a new record for an asset . For example a user or other entity can include a manufacturing employee on an assembly line and the request received in operation can correspond to the employee generating a tag label or other indicia for a new asset that is being manufactured or assembled on the assembly line. In another example the user or other entity can receive a good or other asset and generate an asset tag or other indicia for the asset . In addition to generating an asset tag label or the like the creation of the record can allow tracking of the asset during the lifetime of the asset and or during creation or assembly of the asset . An example user interface for creating an asset record and or asset tags labels or other indicia associated with a new asset record is described an illustrated in more detail below in .

From operation the method proceeds to operation wherein the user device generates an asset identifier . The asset identifier can include almost any text graphics or other information for identifying an asset . While the description herein refers generally to assets as tangible goods it should be understood that the asset also can correspond to services that are tracked by an entity or organization and as such the asset label tag or other indicia of the asset identifier can be printed on a receipt bill or other item associated with services.

In some embodiments the asset identifier generated in operation can include a GUID or other unique identifier that can include various random or nonrandom alphanumeric text strings. In some other embodiments the asset identifier can include a serial number or other nonrandom text that identifies the asset . Because the asset identifier can include almost any type or category of information it should be understood that the above examples of the asset identifier are illustrative and should not be construed as being limiting in any way.

From operation the method proceeds to operation wherein the user device obtains asset information associated with the asset identifier created in operation . Thus the user device can prompt a user or other entity for asset information such as for example a time and or date a current status a location or geographic location of the asset personnel who can and or will be authorized to interact with the asset record or other record associated with the asset authentication or credential information permissions or the like. The asset information also can include information associated with a customer or target of the asset such as a final destination for the asset a date of completion or anticipated completion a shipping or delivery address an actual or anticipated cost a goal combinations thereof or the like. Because almost any information can be obtained by the user device in operation it should be understood that these embodiments are illustrative and should not be construed as being limiting in any way.

From operation the method proceeds to operation wherein the user device submits the asset information obtained in operation to the asset management engine . As illustrated in the user device can submit the information obtained in operation to the asset management engine as the data . Thus though not explicitly illustrated in it should be understood that the user device can be configured to package the asset information as the data and or to stream information to the asset management engine or otherwise make the data available to the asset management engine .

From operation the method proceeds to operation wherein the user device generates one or more asset ID tags labels or other indicia that include information identifying the asset identifier . In some embodiments the user device can be configured to send a print request to a printer to generate the asset ID tag or label. In some other embodiments the user device can be connected to a printer via a wired and or wireless connection. Thus operation can correspond in some embodiments to printing or requesting printing of a label or tag that represents the asset identifier generated in operation . In one contemplated embodiment the asset label or tag includes a QR code that represents the asset identifier . Because other indicia are contemplated and are possible it should be understood that this embodiment is illustrative and should not be construed as being limiting in any way. Example user interfaces that support printing or other generation of asset tags labels or other indicia are illustrated and described in more detail in .

From operation the method proceeds to operation . The method ends at operation . It can be appreciated that the operations of the method described above can correspond to operations completed by the user device when an asset is delivered or received when a service or other intangible asset is begun or ordered when creation or assembly of the asset begins and or at other times or under other circumstances.

Turning now to aspects of a method for generating an asset information update will be described in detail according to an illustrative embodiment. The method is described as being performed by the user device via execution of one or more software modules such as for example the asset management application . It should be understood that additional and or alternative devices and or network nodes can provide the functionality described herein via execution of one or more modules applications and or other software including but not limited to the asset management application . Thus the illustrated embodiments are illustrative and should not be viewed as being limiting in any way.

The method begins at operation wherein the user device obtains an asset identifier . According to various embodiments operation can correspond to a user scanning or otherwise capturing an asset identifier . In some embodiments the asset identifier can be scanned or captured from an asset tag label or other indicia. An example user interface for obtaining the asset identifier is illustrated and described below in . In some embodiments the asset identifier can be input as text by a user or other entity. In yet other embodiments a graphic voice command or other type of data can be obtained in operation . Because almost any type of information or data can be obtained by the user device in operation it should be understood that these embodiments are illustrative and should not be construed as being limiting in any way.

From operation the method proceeds to operation wherein the user device captures device and or user data. According to various embodiments the user device can be configured to capture various data when the asset identifier is captured and or at other times. The device user data can include for example a time and or date a geographic location and or other location information such as network identifiers location within a building or other structure or the like sensor data or information such as temperature light noise levels or the like device identifiers such as IMEIs IMSIs UDIDs serial numbers or the like user identifiers such as name identification numbers authentication information passwords tokens user IDs or the like other information and or combinations thereof.

From operation the method proceeds to operation wherein the user device captures or determines event and or action information. As will be explained in more detail below with reference to the event and or asset information can be selected from a list of events or actions. The list of events or actions can be delivered to or otherwise obtained by the user device from the asset management engine . The events or actions can be determined and or based upon the asset identifier obtained in operation as well as the device user data obtained in operation . In some embodiments the event and or action information can be generated at the user device and therefore may or may not be represented in a list of events or actions.

From operation the method proceeds to operation wherein the user device transmits data to the asset management engine and or the asset management service . According to various embodiments the data transmitted in operation can include but is not limited to the asset identifier the device user data and event information captured and or obtained in operations . As explained herein the data and or other types of event data or other information captured in operations can include the types of information listed above as well as location information user information sensor readings device information time information and asset actions. The asset actions can include but are not limited to specific actions or events such as for example repaired visited delivered commenced received in progress pending or the like. Because additional and or alternative information can be submitted to the asset management service it should be understood that these embodiments are illustrative and should not be construed as being limiting in any way.

Turning now to aspects of a method for updating asset information at an asset management service will be described in detail according to an illustrative embodiment. For purposes of illustrating and describing the concepts of the present disclosure the method is described as being performed by the asset management engine via execution of one or more software modules such as for example the asset management service . It should be understood that additional and or alternative devices and or network nodes can provide the functionality described herein via execution of one or more modules applications and or other software including but not limited to the asset management service . Thus the illustrated embodiments are illustrative and should not be viewed as being limiting in any way.

The method begins at operation wherein the asset management engine receives data from a device such as the user device . The data received in operation can include but is not limited to data representing an asset identifier a time and or date of that the asset identifier was captured or scanned a geographic location at which the asset identifier was captured or scanned personnel associated with the scanning and or capture of the asset identifier an organization associated with the scanning and or capture of the asset identifier a device and or device identifier associated with the user device combinations thereof or the like. As such the data received in operation can be used to determine a time date geographic location personnel organization device or asset associated with the asset identifier captured at the user device .

From operation the method proceeds to operation wherein the asset management engine can determine if an asset record exists for the asset identifier included in the data received in operation . According to various embodiments the asset management engine can search the asset data repository and or request a search of the asset data repository . The search executed or requested by the asset management engine can be for the purpose of identifying one or more records associated with the asset identifier . As explained above the asset data repository can be a multitenant database or data store. As such the asset data repository can include records associated with any number of assets asset identifiers organizations personnel users or the like.

If the asset management engine determines in operation that a record associated with the asset identifier received in operation is not stored at the asset data repository the method proceeds to operation . In operation the asset management engine can create a new asset record e.g. a new record associated with the asset identifier received in operation . From operation or from operation if the asset management engine determines that a record associated with the asset identifier exists in the asset data repository the method proceeds to operation .

In operation the asset management engine provides event and or action information to the device from which the data was received in operation . Thus for example if the asset management engine receives the data from the user device in operation the asset management engine can provide the determined status to the user device in operation . It can be appreciated from the discussion of that the event and or action information can be provided to the user device as the data and or that the data can be displayed on one or more user interfaces. Furthermore though not separately illustrated in the asset management engine can determine available event and or action information for the asset identifier . According to various embodiments of the concepts and technologies described herein the asset management engine can be configured to populate a list of recognized and or available actions and or events based upon the asset identifier . The available events and or actions can be extracted from the records and or can be known to the asset management engine . Illustrative events and or actions can include but are not limited to order received manufacturing begun assembly begun assembly completed delivered packaged shipped or the like.

From operation the method proceeds to operation wherein the asset management engine receives an update from the device. In operation the asset management engine can receive data indicating a selection of one or more of the events and or actions provided to the device in operation . The device can transmit the data indicating the selection of the one or more events or actions or otherwise inform the asset management engine regarding the selection.

From operation the method proceeds to operation wherein the asset management engine can update the asset record. As such the asset management engine can update the status associated with the record created in operation or identified in operation to reflect the status indicated by the update received in operation . As such the asset management engine can update the records in response to receiving the data from the device in operation .

Although not illustrated or described in the asset management engine also can be configured to generate a third party access web site and or other reporting mechanisms such as emails text messages or the like. In particular a customer or user of the asset management service can be enabled to share asset information with customers or other interested or authorized parties. Thus for example if a tailor uses the asset management service to track progress of an asset in this case a suit the tailor can attach an asset tag to the suit or raw materials and scan the asset tag during the process of making the suit. The tailor can provide a customer with a link to a website and or can provide text messages to the customer. Thus the customer can view the current status and or other information associated with the asset management service .

The third party or other entity can access the asset management engine and provide authentication information such as a password and username provided by the tailor or other entity. The asset management engine can obtain records associated with the user or customer and can format a web page or other interface for viewing the assets associated with the customer or user. As such the asset management engine can provide status updates not only to a user such as a business owner but also to a user who can include a customer of the user. This can help reduce the number of status checks users of the asset management engine receive from their customers by redirecting these inquiries to the asset management engine instead. Because other third party access scenarios and or user interfaces are contemplated it should be understood that this embodiment is illustrative and should not be construed as being limiting in any way.

Additionally the asset management engine can be configured to track billing and or charging for the asset management service . Several billing charging models are contemplated and others are possible. In some embodiments the asset management service can bill users a flat fee per day week month year or the like. In some other embodiments the asset management service can track users records status updates asset tag creation and or other information and bill users based upon use. It should be understood that these embodiments are illustrative and should not be construed as being limiting in any way.

Turning now to UI diagrams showing various aspects of the concepts and technologies disclosed herein for an asset management service for distributed computing environments will be described according to various illustrative embodiments. shows an illustrative screen display A generated by a device such as the user device . According to various embodiments the user device can generate the screen display A and or other screen displays in conjunction with and or based upon data received from the asset management application and or the asset management service described herein. As noted above the functionality associated with the asset management service can be provided by a device remote from the user device such as for example the asset management engine . Similarly the functionality associated with the asset management application can be provided by an application program executing at the user device and or by applications executing remotely from the user device . It should be appreciated that the UI diagram illustrated in is illustrative of one contemplated embodiment and therefore should not be construed as being limited in any way.

Although not shown in the screen display A can include various menus and or menu options such as options for advancing to a next screen returning to a previous screen exiting registration of the user device and or other options. While the example embodiment of the screen display A illustrated in is illustrated as being presented during a device registration or setup operation it should be understood that the screen display A and or other screen displays can be provided at almost any time during operation of the user device . Because the screen display A can be displayed at other times it should be understood that this embodiment is illustrative and should not be construed as being limiting in any way.

In the user device is illustrated as displaying a user interface for capturing or scanning an asset tag or asset identifier as described herein. As shown in the asset management application can access an imaging device of the user device and display data captured with the imaging device on a screen display for a user or other entity. Thus the user device can be configured to guide a user through an asset identifier capture process and or other operations for capturing an asset identifier or other information identifying an asset . As explained above in detail it should be understood that near field communications infrared RFID and or other communications technologies can be used to capture the asset identifier instead of or in addition to using an image capture device as illustrated in .

It can be appreciated from the description of above that the screen display A illustrated in can be but is not necessarily used to guide a user through capturing or obtaining an asset identifier as described with reference to operation of the method illustrated in . Because asset identifiers can be captured or obtained at other times it should be understood that this embodiment is illustrative and should not be construed as being limiting in any way. The screen display A can include an asset identifier capture screen . The asset identifier capture screen can include text graphics and or other information that explains or guides a user or other entity through capturing an asset identifier .

As shown in though not necessarily included in all embodiments the asset identifier capture screen includes visual guides for guiding a user or other entity to locate the user device in or at an orientation and or position at which a tag label or other surface bearing indicia of the asset identifier can be captured or scanned. The screen display A also can include a UI control for exiting capturing of the asset identifier . The screen display A also can include a UI control for scanning or capturing the asset identifier from visual information captured by the user device .

Thus a user or other entity can by way of interacting with the asset identifier capture screen exit or complete capturing or scanning of the asset identifier described herein. More particularly selection of the UI control can cause the user device to close or exit the asset management application and or to cancel capturing or scanning of a tag or label that includes indicia of the asset identifier . Similarly selection of the UI control can cause the user device to capture an image or other information from which the asset identifier can be extracted or captured thereby obtaining the asset identifier as described herein. Because additional or alternative UI controls can be included in the screen display A and or because additional or alternative actions can be taken in response to selection of the UI controls included in the screen display A it should be understood that these embodiments are illustrative and should not be construed as being limiting in any way.

Referring now to a UI diagram showing additional aspects of the concepts and technologies disclosed herein for an asset management service for distributed computing environments are described in detail. In particular shows a screen display B generated by a device such as the user device . In some embodiments the screen display B can be generated by the user device in response to detecting a tap touch gesture keystroke voice command or other input for creating asset identifiers viewing modifying and or submitting asset status updates updating user accounts and or permissions accessing and or modifying one or more settings preferences or configurations associated with the asset management application and or application programs that include or access the asset management application printing tags labels and or other indicia including information identifying the asset identifiers or the like. Because the screen display B can be presented at other times it should be understood that these embodiments are illustrative and should not be construed as being limiting in any way.

The screen display B can include an asset tracking display for viewing scanned or captured asset identifier information viewing current asset status viewing personnel and or organization information modifying and or entering user or organization credentials or permissions printing asset tags labels and or other indicia of asset identifiers managing account details disposing of assets and or terminating tracking of asset information combinations thereof or the like. The asset tracking display can include for example an asset account information list . The asset account information list can include a number of rows A C hereinafter collectively and or generically referred to as rows . The rows can correspond to various types and or categories of information that can be obtained or captured by the user device during a scan or capture process as described herein. Because the asset account information list can include additional and or alternative information it should be understood that the illustrated embodiment is illustrative and should not be construed as being limiting in any way.

The asset account information list also can include UI controls A F hereinafter collectively and or generically referred to as UI controls for taking various actions with respect to data and or other information obtained by generated by and or detected by the asset management application . The rows and UI controls shown in illustrate only some contemplated examples of data information actions or the like that can be obtained used or taken by the user device and therefore should not be construed as being limiting in any way.

The UI control A for example can be used to edit or recapture geographic location information captured by the user device . Thus selection of the UI control A can cause the user device to capture or recapture geographic location information and or to allow a user or other entity to manually edit the information. The UI control B can be used to edit or change an asset status as described herein particularly with respect to . Selection of the UI control B can cause the user device to obtain and or display available statuses or allow a user or other entity to manually enter a current status if desired.

The UI control C can be used to edit or change personnel information. Thus selection of the UI control C can cause the user device to capture or change personnel information and or to allow a user or other entity to manually edit the personnel information. The UI control D can be used to print asset tags labels and or other indicia. The indicia can include data representing the asset identifiers described herein. According to one contemplated embodiment selection of the UI control D can cause the user device to send data representing the tab label or other indicia to a local or remote printer such as for example a wirelessly accessed printer for printing the indicia.

The UI control E can be used to indicate that an asset has been disposed of delivered sold traded and or the like. Thus selection of the UI control E can cause the user device to send data to the asset management engine indicating that the tracking and or servicing of a record corresponding to the asset is to be suspected or terminated. The UI control F can be used to access view and or manage account details associated with an organization user device credentials or the like. As such selection of the UI control F can cause the user device to send data to the asset management service requesting account information and or navigation to an account management page or other location for accessing the account information.

According to various embodiments the screen display B can be presented in response to a user or other entity capturing or scanning indicia that include a representation of the asset identifier described herein. As such it should be understood that the screen display B can be presented at almost any time. As explained above application programs executed at the user device can be configured to access one or more APIs associated with the asset management engine if desired. As such the asset account information list illustrated in can include any number of rows and or UI controls in addition to or instead of the depicted information. As such it should be understood that this embodiment is illustrative and should not be construed as being limiting in any way.

Turning now to a UI diagram showing additional aspects of the concepts and technologies disclosed herein for an asset management service for distributed computing environments are described in detail. In particular shows a screen display C generated by a device such as the user device . In some embodiments the screen display C can be generated by the user device in response to detecting a tap touch gesture keystroke voice command or other input for creating asset identifiers though this is not necessarily the case. Because the screen display C can be presented at other times it should be understood that these embodiments are illustrative and should not be construed as being limiting in any way.

The screen display C can include an asset tag creation display for creating new asset tags labels or other indicia for representing an asset identifier and or for creating a new record associated with the asset identifier at the user device and or at the asset management engine or asset management service . Thus the asset tag creation display can include fields and or UI controls for generating an asset identifier viewing or assigning an initial asset status adding viewing modifying and or assigning personnel and or organization information associated with the asset identifier printing asset tags labels and or other indicia of the new asset identifier adding additional assets and or asset identifiers managing account details combinations thereof or the like.

The asset tag creation display can include for example an asset tag creation list for presenting and or allowing input of information for a new asset and or asset identifier . The asset tag creation list can include a number of areas regions or other blocks of information blocks A C hereinafter collectively and or generically referred to as blocks . The blocks can correspond to various types and or categories of information that can be entered or defined by a user or other entity for a new asset or asset identifier . Because the asset tag creation list can include additional and or alternative information it should be understood that the illustrated embodiment is illustrative and should not be construed as being limiting in any way.

The asset tag creation list also can include UI controls as described above with regard to . The asset tag creation list also can include a UI control for adding an additional asset or asset identifier . Thus a user or other entity can create an asset identifier or record associated with a new asset and then select the UI control to create another new asset identifier and or record . As such it can be appreciated that some embodiments of the screen display C can support rapid and convenient creation of asset identifiers and or records associated with new assets . Similarly as explained above selection of the UI control D can cause the user device to print or request printing of asset tags labels and or other indicia that represent the asset identifier . As such a user or other entity can create asset identifiers and print tags labels or other indicia for representing the asset identifiers . The blocks and UI controls shown in illustrate only some contemplated examples of data information actions or the like that can be obtained used or taken by the user device and therefore should not be construed as being limiting in any way.

According to various embodiments the screen display C can be presented in response to a user or other entity indicating that a new asset or asset identifier is to be created. As shown in the block B the user or other entity has indicated the asset status as start manufacturing indicating that manufacturing of the asset has begun. As can be appreciated from the above description the status of the asset can be stored at the asset data repository and updated subsequently in response to scanning or capturing the asset identifier associated with the asset for example via presentation or interaction with the screen displays A B described above.

In one example embodiment of the concepts and technologies disclosed herein the asset management service can be used to track ordinary objects in addition to or instead of the assets described herein. Thus for example a business may wish to track buying behaviors of a customer with respect to products of the business. The business can generate an asset identifier and include information identifying the asset identifier in a tag label or other indicia to be included on the product sold by the business. The customer can scan the tag or other indicia using for example a downloaded installed and or web based application. When the indicia is scanned by the customer the asset identifier or other object identification such as a product ID or the like can be captured along with other information such as for example time information location information customer information which can be defined as a registered customer or recorded using an IMEI IMSI and or other device identifier other information combinations thereof or the like. These and or other information can be transmitted or made available to the business. The business can use the information for various purposes such as registering a customer providing loyalty points providing coupons requesting reviews or comments providing gifts tracking or maintaining consumer behaviors and consumption patterns other reasons combinations thereof or the like. It should be understood that these embodiments are illustrative and should not be construed as being limiting in any way.

Turning now to additional details of the network are illustrated according to an illustrative embodiment. The network includes a cellular network a packet data network for example the Internet and a circuit switched network for example a publicly switched telephone network PSTN . The cellular network includes various components such as but not limited to base transceiver stations BTSs Node B s or e Node B s base station controllers BSCs radio network controllers RNCs mobile switching centers MSCs mobile management entities MMEs short message service centers SMSCs multimedia messaging service centers MMSCs home location registers HLRs home subscriber servers HSSs visitor location registers VLRs charging platforms billing platforms voicemail platforms GPRS core network components location service nodes an IP Multimedia Subsystem IMS and the like. The cellular network also includes radios and nodes for receiving and transmitting voice data and combinations thereof to and from radio transceivers networks the packet data network and the circuit switched network .

A mobile communications device such as for example a cellular telephone a user equipment a mobile terminal a PDA a laptop computer a handheld computer and combinations thereof can be operatively connected to the cellular network . The cellular network can be configured as a 2G GSM network and can provide data communications via GPRS and or EDGE. Additionally or alternatively the cellular network can be configured as a 3G UMTS network and can provide data communications via the HSPA protocol family for example HSDPA EUL also referred to as HSUPA and HSPA . The cellular network also is compatible with 4G mobile communications standards as well as evolved and future mobile standards.

The packet data network includes various devices for example servers computers databases and other devices in communication with another as is generally known. The packet data network devices are accessible via one or more network links. The servers often store various files that are provided to a requesting device such as for example a computer a terminal a smartphone or the like. Typically the requesting device includes software a browser for executing a web page in a format readable by the browser or other software. Other files and or data may be accessible via links in the retrieved files as is generally known. In some embodiments the packet data network includes or is in communication with the Internet. The circuit switched network includes various hardware and software for providing circuit switched communications. The circuit switched network may include or may be what is often referred to as a plain old telephone system POTS . The functionality of a circuit switched network or other circuit switched network are generally known and will not be described herein in detail.

The illustrated cellular network is shown in communication with the packet data network and a circuit switched network though it should be appreciated that this is not necessarily the case. One or more Internet capable devices for example a PC a laptop a portable device or another suitable device can communicate with one or more cellular networks and devices connected thereto through the packet data network . It also should be appreciated that the Internet capable device can communicate with the packet data network through the circuit switched network the cellular network and or via other networks not illustrated .

As illustrated a communications device for example a telephone facsimile machine modem computer or the like can be in communication with the circuit switched network and therethrough to the packet data network and or the cellular network . It should be appreciated that the communications device can be an Internet capable device and can be substantially similar to the Internet capable device . In the specification the network is used to refer broadly to any combination of the networks . It should be appreciated that substantially all of the functionality described with reference to the network can be performed by the cellular network the packet data network and or the circuit switched network alone or in combination with other networks network elements and the like.

The processing unit may be a standard central processor that performs arithmetic and logical operations a more specific purpose programmable logic controller PLC a programmable gate array or other type of processor known to those skilled in the art and suitable for controlling the operation of the server computer. Processing units are generally known and therefore are not described in further detail herein.

The memory communicates with the processing unit via the system bus . In some embodiments the memory is operatively connected to a memory controller not shown that enables communication with the processing unit via the system bus . The memory includes an operating system and one or more program modules . The operating system can include but is not limited to members of the WINDOWS WINDOWS CE and or WINDOWS MOBILE families of operating systems from MICROSOFT CORPORATION the LINUX family of operating systems the SYMBIAN family of operating systems from SYMBIAN LIMITED the BREW family of operating systems from QUALCOMM CORPORATION the MAC OS iOS LEOPARD MOUNTAIN LION and or other families of operating systems from APPLE CORPORATION the FREEBSD family of operating systems the SOLARIS family of operating systems from ORACLE CORPORATION other operating systems and the like.

The program modules may include various software and or program modules described herein. In some embodiments for example the program modules include the asset management service . This and or other programs can be embodied in computer readable media containing instructions that when executed by the processing unit perform one or more of the methods described in detail above with respect to . According to embodiments the program modules may be embodied in hardware software firmware or any combination thereof. Although not shown in it should be understood that the memory also can be configured to store the asset data repository the records and or other data if desired.

By way of example and not limitation computer readable media may include any available computer storage media or communication media that can be accessed by the computer system . Communication media includes computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any delivery media. The term modulated data signal means a signal that has one or more of its characteristics changed or set in a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communication media includes wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic RF infrared and other wireless media. Combinations of the any of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

Computer storage media includes volatile and non volatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM Erasable Programmable ROM EPROM Electrically Erasable Programmable ROM EEPROM flash memory or other solid state memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by the computer system . In the claims the phrase computer storage medium and variations thereof does not include waves signals and or other transitory and or intangible communication media per se.

The user interface devices may include one or more devices with which a user accesses the computer system . The user interface devices may include but are not limited to computers servers personal digital assistants cellular phones or any suitable computing devices. The I O devices enable a user to interface with the program modules . In one embodiment the I O devices are operatively connected to an I O controller not shown that enables communication with the processing unit via the system bus . The I O devices may include one or more input devices such as but not limited to a keyboard a mouse or an electronic stylus. Further the I O devices may include one or more output devices such as but not limited to a display screen or a printer.

The network devices enable the computer system to communicate with other networks or remote systems via a network such as the network . Examples of the network devices include but are not limited to a modem a radio frequency RF or infrared IR transceiver a telephonic interface a bridge a router or a network card. The network may include a wireless network such as but not limited to a Wireless Local Area Network WLAN such as a WI FI network a Wireless Wide Area Network WWAN a Wireless Personal Area Network WPAN such as BLUETOOTH a Wireless Metropolitan Area Network WMAN such a WiMAX network or a cellular network. Alternatively the network may be a wired network such as but not limited to a Wide Area Network WAN such as the Internet a Local Area Network LAN such as the Ethernet a wired Personal Area Network PAN or a wired Metropolitan Area Network MAN .

Turning now to an illustrative mobile device and components thereof will be described. In some embodiments the user device described above with reference to can be configured as and or can have an architecture similar or identical to the mobile device described herein in . It should be understood however that the user device may or may not include the functionality described herein with reference to . While connections are not shown between the various components illustrated in it should be understood that some none or all of the components illustrated in can be configured to interact with one other to carry out various device functions. In some embodiments the components are arranged so as to communicate via one or more busses not shown . Thus it should be understood that and the following description are intended to provide a general understanding of a suitable environment in which various aspects of embodiments can be implemented and should not be construed as being limiting in any way.

As illustrated in the mobile device can include a display for displaying data. According to various embodiments the display can be configured to display asset information asset tag or asset ID information asset management account information various graphical user interface GUI elements text images video virtual keypads and or keyboards messaging data notification messages metadata internet content device status time date calendar data device preferences map and location data combinations thereof and or the like. The mobile device also can include a processor and a memory or other data storage device memory . The processor can be configured to process data and or can execute computer executable instructions stored in the memory . The computer executable instructions executed by the processor can include for example an operating system one or more applications such as the asset management application other computer executable instructions stored in a memory or the like. In some embodiments the applications also can include a UI application not illustrated in .

The UI application can interface with the operating system such as the operating system shown in to facilitate user interaction with functionality and or data stored at the mobile device and or stored elsewhere. In some embodiments the operating system can include a member of the SYMBIAN OS family of operating systems from SYMBIAN LIMITED a member of the WINDOWS MOBILE OS and or WINDOWS PHONE OS families of operating systems from MICROSOFT CORPORATION a member of the PALM WEBOS family of operating systems from HEWLETT PACKARD CORPORATION a member of the BLACKBERRY OS family of operating systems from RESEARCH IN MOTION LIMITED a member of the IOS family of operating systems from APPLE INC. a member of the ANDROID OS family of operating systems from GOOGLE INC. and or other operating systems. These operating systems are merely illustrative of some contemplated operating systems that may be used in accordance with various embodiments of the concepts and technologies described herein and therefore should not be construed as being limiting in any way.

The UI application can be executed by the processor to aid a user in entering content scanning or capturing asset ID or asset tag information creating new asset tags or asset ID numbers viewing asset information and or account information answering initiating calls entering deleting data entering and setting user IDs and passwords for device access configuring settings manipulating address book content and or settings multimode interaction interacting with other applications and otherwise facilitating user interaction with the operating system the applications and or other types or instances of data that can be stored at the mobile device . The data can include for example asset information asset tags and or asset identifiers and or other applications or program modules. According to various embodiments the data can include for example presence applications visual voice mail applications messaging applications text to speech and speech to text applications add ons plug ins email applications music applications video applications camera applications location based service applications power conservation applications game applications productivity applications entertainment applications enterprise applications combinations thereof and the like. The applications the data and or portions thereof can be stored in the memory and or in a firmware and can be executed by the processor . The firmware also can store code for execution during device power up and power down operations. It can be appreciated that the firmware can be stored in a volatile or non volatile data storage device including but not limited to the memory and or a portion thereof.

The mobile device also can include an input output I O interface . The I O interfaced can be configured to support the input output of data such as location information asset information user information organization information presence status information user IDs passwords and application initiation start up requests. In some embodiments the I O interface can include a hardwire connection such as a universal serial bus USB port a mini USB port a micro USB port an audio jack a PS2 port an IEEE 1394 FIREWIRE port a serial port a parallel port an Ethernet RJ411 port an RJ11 port a proprietary port combinations thereof or the like. In some embodiments the mobile device can be configured to synchronize with another device to transfer content to and or from the mobile device . In some embodiments the mobile device can be configured to receive updates to one or more of the applications via the I O interface though this is not necessarily the case. In some embodiments the I O interface accepts I O devices such as keyboards keypads mice interface tethers printers plotters external storage touch multi touch screens touch pads trackballs joysticks microphones remote control devices displays projectors medical equipment e.g. stethoscopes heart monitors and other health metric monitors modems routers external power sources docking stations combinations thereof and the like. It should be appreciated that the I O interface may be used for communications between the mobile device and a network device or local device.

The mobile device also can include a communications component . The communications component can be configured to interface with the processor to facilitate wired and or wireless communications with one or more networks such as the network described herein. In some embodiments other networks include networks that utilize non cellular wireless technologies such as WI FI or WIMAX. In some embodiments the communications component includes a multimode communications subsystem for facilitating communications via the cellular network and one or more other networks.

The communications component in some embodiments includes one or more transceivers. The one or more transceivers if included can be configured to communicate over the same and or different wireless technology standards with respect to one another. For example in some embodiments one or more of the transceivers of the communications component may be configured to communicate using GSM CDMAONE CDMA2000 LTE and various other 2G 2.5G 3G 4G and greater generation technology standards. Moreover the communications component may facilitate communications over various channel access methods which may or may not be used by the aforementioned standards including but not limited to TDMA FDMA W CDMA OFDM SDMA and the like.

In addition the communications component may facilitate data communications using GPRS EDGE the HSPA protocol family including HSDPA EUL or otherwise termed HSUPA HSPA and various other current and future wireless data access standards. In the illustrated embodiment the communications component can include a first transceiver TxRx A that can operate in a first communications mode e.g. GSM . The communications component also can include an Ntransceiver TxRx N that can operate in a second communications mode relative to the first transceiver A e.g. UMTS . While two transceivers A N hereinafter collectively and or generically referred to as transceivers are shown in it should be appreciated that less than two two and or more than two transceivers can be included in the communications component .

The communications component also can include an alternative transceiver Alt TxRx for supporting other types and or standards of communications. According to various contemplated embodiments the alternative transceiver can communicate using various communications technologies such as for example WI FI WIMAX BLUETOOTH infrared infrared data association IRDA near field communications NFC other RF technologies combinations thereof and the like. In some embodiments the communications component also can facilitate reception from terrestrial radio networks digital satellite radio networks internet based radio service networks combinations thereof and the like. The communications component can process data from a network such as the Internet an intranet a broadband network a WI FI hotspot an Internet service provider ISP a digital subscriber line DSL provider a broadband provider combinations thereof or the like.

The mobile device also can include one or more sensors . The sensors can include temperature sensors light sensors air quality sensors movement sensors orientation sensors noise sensors proximity sensors or the like. As such it should be understood that the sensors can include but are not limited to accelerometers magnetometers gyroscopes infrared sensors noise sensors microphones combinations thereof or the like. Additionally audio capabilities for the mobile device may be provided by an audio I O component . The audio I O component of the mobile device can include one or more speakers for the output of audio signals one or more microphones for the collection and or input of audio signals and or other audio input and or output devices.

The illustrated mobile device also can include a subscriber identity module SIM system . The SIM system can include a universal SIM USIM a universal integrated circuit card UICC and or other identity devices. The SIM system can include and or can be connected to or inserted into an interface such as a slot interface . In some embodiments the slot interface can be configured to accept insertion of other identity cards or modules for accessing various types of networks. Additionally or alternatively the slot interface can be configured to accept multiple subscriber identity cards. Because other devices and or modules for identifying users and or the mobile device are contemplated it should be understood that these embodiments are illustrative and should not be construed as being limiting in any way.

The mobile device also can include an image capture and processing system image system . The image system can be configured to capture or otherwise obtain photos videos and or other visual information. As such the image system can include cameras lenses charge coupled devices CCDs combinations thereof or the like. The mobile device may also include a video system . The video system can be configured to capture process record modify and or store video content. Photos and videos obtained using the image system and the video system respectively may be added as message content to an MMS message email message and sent to another mobile device. The video and or photo content also can be shared with other devices via various types of data transfers via wired and or wireless communication devices as described herein.

The mobile device also can include one or more location components . The location components can be configured to send and or receive signals to determine a geographic location of the mobile device . According to various embodiments the location components can send and or receive signals from global positioning system GPS devices assisted GPS A GPS devices WI FI WIMAX and or cellular network triangulation data combinations thereof and the like. The location component also can be configured to communicate with the communications component to retrieve triangulation data for determining a location of the mobile device . In some embodiments the location component can interface with cellular network nodes telephone lines satellites location transmitters and or beacons wireless network transmitters and receivers combinations thereof and the like. In some embodiments the location component can include and or can communicate with one or more of the sensors such as a compass an accelerometer and or a gyroscope to determine the orientation of the mobile device . Using the location component the mobile device can generate and or receive data to identify its geographic location or to transmit data used by other devices to determine the location of the mobile device . The location component may include multiple components for determining the location and or orientation of the mobile device .

The illustrated mobile device also can include a power source . The power source can include one or more batteries power supplies power cells and or other power subsystems including alternating current AC and or direct current DC power devices. The power source also can interface with an external power system or charging equipment via a power I O component . Because the mobile device can include additional and or alternative components the above embodiment should be understood as being illustrative of one possible operating environment for various embodiments of the concepts and technologies described herein. The described embodiment of the mobile device is illustrative and should not be construed as being limiting in any way.

Based on the foregoing it should be appreciated that an asset management service for distributed computing environments has been disclosed herein. Although the subject matter presented herein has been described in language specific to computer structural features methodological and transformative acts specific computing machinery and computer readable media it is to be understood that the concepts and technologies disclosed herein are not necessarily limited to the specific features acts or media described herein. Rather the specific features acts and mediums are disclosed as example forms of implementing the concepts and technologies disclosed herein.

The subject matter described above is provided by way of illustration only and should not be construed as limiting. Various modifications and changes may be made to the subject matter described herein without following the example embodiments and applications illustrated and described and without departing from the true spirit and scope of the embodiments of the concepts and technologies disclosed herein.

