---

title: Filtering suggested structured queries on online social networks
abstract: In one embodiment, a method includes receiving an text query inputted by a first user from a client device of the first user, generating a set of structured queries based on the text query, each structured query in the set corresponding to a grammar of a context-free grammar model, wherein each structured query is based on a natural-language string generated by a grammar of the context-free grammar model and comprises one or more tokens, wherein one or more of the tokens of each structured query correspond to one or more objects associated with the online social network, respectively, filtering the set to remove one or more structured queries from the set, each removed structured query having a quality score less than a threshold quality score, and sending one or more of the structured queries from the post-filtered set to the client device of the first user for display.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09594852&OS=09594852&RS=09594852
owner: Facebook, Inc.
number: 09594852
owner_city: Menlo Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20151028
---
This application is a continuation under 35 U.S.C. 120 of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 890 070 filed 8 May 2013.

This disclosure generally relates to social graphs and performing searches for objects within a social networking environment.

A social networking system which may include a social networking website may enable its users such as persons or organizations to interact with it and with each other through it. The social networking system may with input from a user create and store in the social networking system a user profile associated with the user. The user profile may include demographic information communication channel information and information on personal interests of the user. The social networking system may also with input from a user create and store a record of relationships of the user with other users of the social networking system as well as provide services e.g. wall posts photo sharing event organization messaging games or advertisements to facilitate social interaction between or among users.

The social networking system may transmit over one or more networks content or messages related to its services to a mobile or other computing device of a user. A user may also install software applications on a mobile or other computing device of the user for accessing a user profile of the user and other data within the social networking system. The social networking system may generate a personalized set of content objects to display to a user such as a newsfeed of aggregated stories of other users connected to the user.

Social graph analysis views social relationships in terms of network theory consisting of nodes and edges. Nodes represent the individual actors within the networks and edges represent the relationships between the actors. The resulting graph based structures are often very complex. There can be many types of nodes and many types of edges for connecting nodes. In its simplest form a social graph is a map of all of the relevant edges between all the nodes being studied.

In particular embodiments in response to a text query received from a user a social networking system may generate structured queries comprising query tokens that correspond to identified social graph elements. By providing suggested structured queries in response to a user s text query the social networking system may provide a powerful way for users of an online social network to search for elements represented in a social graph based on their social graph attributes and their relation to various social graph elements.

In particular embodiments the social networking system may receive an unstructured text query from a user. In response the social networking system may parse the text query and generate one or more structured queries based on the text query. These structured queries may then be filtered based on the quality of each structured query. When parsing certain unstructured text queries the social networking system may generate low quality or irrelevant structured queries in response. This may happen when the text query contains terms that do not match well with the grammar model such that when the term is parsed by the grammar model it is matched to irrelevant query tokens. Since these low quality structured queries may be ridiculous or embarrassing and may be desirable to filter out these queries before they are sent back to the querying user as suggestions. Filtering may be done by analyzing and scoring each structured based on a variety of factors that signal a particular suggested query may be of low quality or irrelevant. Each structured query may be scored based on the text query itself and the structured query. Structured queries having a poor quality score may be filtered out such that only high quality structured queries are presented to the querying user. The structured queries remaining after filtering may then be transmitted and displayed to the user where the user can then select an appropriate query to search for the desired content.

This disclosure contemplates any suitable network . As an example and not by way of limitation one or more portions of network may include an ad hoc network an intranet an extranet a virtual private network VPN a local area network LAN a wireless LAN WLAN a wide area network WAN a wireless WAN WWAN a metropolitan area network MAN a portion of the Internet a portion of the Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN a cellular telephone network or a combination of two or more of these. Network may include one or more networks .

Links may connect client system social networking system and third party system to communication network or to each other. This disclosure contemplates any suitable links . In particular embodiments one or more links include one or more wireline such as for example Digital Subscriber Line DSL or Data Over Cable Service Interface Specification DOCSIS wireless such as for example Wi Fi or Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WiMAX or optical such as for example Synchronous Optical Network SONET or Synchronous Digital Hierarchy SDH links. In particular embodiments one or more links each include an ad hoc network an intranet an extranet a VPN a LAN a WLAN a WAN a WWAN a MAN a portion of the Internet a portion of the PSTN a cellular technology based network a satellite communications technology based network another link or a combination of two or more such links . Links need not necessarily be the same throughout network environment . One or more first links may differ in one or more respects from one or more second links .

In particular embodiments client system may be an electronic device including hardware software or embedded logic components or a combination of two or more such components and capable of carrying out the appropriate functionalities implemented or supported by client system . As an example and not by way of limitation a client system may include a computer system such as a desktop computer notebook or laptop computer netbook a tablet computer e book reader GPS device camera personal digital assistant PDA handheld electronic device cellular telephone smartphone other suitable electronic device or any suitable combination thereof. This disclosure contemplates any suitable client systems . A client system may enable a network user at client system to access network . A client system may enable its user to communicate with other users at other client systems .

In particular embodiments client system may include a web browser such as MICROSOFT INTERNET EXPLORER GOOGLE CHROME or MOZILLA FIREFOX and may have one or more add ons plug ins or other extensions such as TOOLBAR or YAHOO TOOLBAR. A user at client system may enter a Uniform Resource Locator URL or other address directing the web browser to a particular server such as server or a server associated with a third party system and the web browser may generate a Hyper Text Transfer Protocol HTTP request and communicate the HTTP request to server. The server may accept the HTTP request and communicate to client system one or more Hyper Text Markup Language HTML files responsive to the HTTP request. Client system may render a webpage based on the HTML files from the server for presentation to the user. This disclosure contemplates any suitable webpage files. As an example and not by way of limitation webpages may render from HTML files Extensible Hyper Text Markup Language XHTML files or Extensible Markup Language XML files according to particular needs. Such pages may also execute scripts such as for example and without limitation those written in JAVASCRIPT JAVA MICROSOFT SILVERLIGHT combinations of markup language and scripts such as AJAX Asynchronous JAVASCRIPT and XML and the like. Herein reference to a webpage encompasses one or more corresponding webpage files which a browser may use to render the webpage and vice versa where appropriate.

In particular embodiments social networking system may be a network addressable computing system that can host an online social network. Social networking system may generate store receive and send social networking data such as for example user profile data concept profile data social graph information or other suitable data related to the online social network. Social networking system may be accessed by the other components of network environment either directly or via network . In particular embodiments social networking system may include one or more servers . Each server may be a unitary server or a distributed server spanning multiple computers or multiple datacenters. Servers may be of various types such as for example and without limitation web server news server mail server message server advertising server file server application server exchange server database server proxy server another server suitable for performing functions or processes described herein or any combination thereof. In particular embodiments each server may include hardware software or embedded logic components or a combination of two or more such components for carrying out the appropriate functionalities implemented or supported by server . In particular embodiments social networking system may include one or more data stores . Data stores may be used to store various types of information. In particular embodiments the information stored in data stores may be organized according to specific data structures. In particular embodiments each data store may be a relational columnar correlation or other suitable database. Although this disclosure describes or illustrates particular types of databases this disclosure contemplates any suitable types of databases. Particular embodiments may provide interfaces that enable a client system a social networking system or a third party system to manage retrieve modify add or delete the information stored in data store .

In particular embodiments social networking system may store one or more social graphs in one or more data stores . In particular embodiments a social graph may include multiple nodes which may include multiple user nodes each corresponding to a particular user or multiple concept nodes each corresponding to a particular concept and multiple edges connecting the nodes. Social networking system may provide users of the online social network the ability to communicate and interact with other users. In particular embodiments users may join the online social network via social networking system and then add connections e.g. relationships to a number of other users of social networking system whom they want to be connected to. Herein the term friend may refer to any other user of social networking system with whom a user has formed a connection association or relationship via social networking system .

In particular embodiments social networking system may provide users with the ability to take actions on various types of items or objects supported by social networking system . As an example and not by way of limitation the items and objects may include groups or social networks to which users of social networking system may belong events or calendar entries in which a user might be interested computer based applications that a user may use transactions that allow users to buy or sell items via the service interactions with advertisements that a user may perform or other suitable items or objects. A user may interact with anything that is capable of being represented in social networking system or by an external system of third party system which is separate from social networking system and coupled to social networking system via a network .

In particular embodiments social networking system may be capable of linking a variety of entities. As an example and not by way of limitation social networking system may enable users to interact with each other as well as receive content from third party systems or other entities or to allow users to interact with these entities through an application programming interfaces API or other communication channels.

In particular embodiments a third party system may include one or more types of servers one or more data stores one or more interfaces including but not limited to APIs one or more web services one or more content sources one or more networks or any other suitable components e.g. that servers may communicate with. A third party system may be operated by a different entity from an entity operating social networking system . In particular embodiments however social networking system and third party systems may operate in conjunction with each other to provide social networking services to users of social networking system or third party systems . In this sense social networking system may provide a platform or backbone which other systems such as third party systems may use to provide social networking services and functionality to users across the Internet.

In particular embodiments a third party system may include a third party content object provider. A third party content object provider may include one or more sources of content objects which may be communicated to a client system . As an example and not by way of limitation content objects may include information regarding things or activities of interest to the user such as for example movie show times movie reviews restaurant reviews restaurant menus product information and reviews or other suitable information. As another example and not by way of limitation content objects may include incentive content objects such as coupons discount tickets gift certificates or other suitable incentive objects.

In particular embodiments social networking system also includes user generated content objects which may enhance a user s interactions with social networking system . User generated content may include anything a user can add upload send or post to social networking system . As an example and not by way of limitation a user communicates posts to social networking system from a client system . Posts may include data such as status updates or other textual data location information photos videos links music or other similar data or media. Content may also be added to social networking system by a third party through a communication channel such as a newsfeed or stream.

In particular embodiments social networking system may include a variety of servers sub systems programs modules logs and data stores. In particular embodiments social networking system may include one or more of the following a web server action logger API request server relevance and ranking engine content object classifier notification controller action log third party content object exposure log inference module authorization privacy server search module advertisement targeting module user interface module user profile store connection store third party content store or location store. Social networking system may also include suitable components such as network interfaces security mechanisms load balancers failover servers management and network operations consoles other suitable components or any suitable combination thereof. In particular embodiments social networking system may include one or more user profile stores for storing user profiles. A user profile may include for example biographic information demographic information behavioral information social information or other types of descriptive information such as work experience educational history hobbies or preferences interests affinities or location. Interest information may include interests related to one or more categories. Categories may be general or specific. As an example and not by way of limitation if a user likes an article about a brand of shoes the category may be the brand or the general category of shoes or clothing. A connection store may be used for storing connection information about users. The connection information may indicate users who have similar or common work experience group memberships hobbies educational history or are in any way related or share common attributes. The connection information may also include user defined connections between different users and content both internal and external . A web server may be used for linking social networking system to one or more client systems or one or more third party system via network . The web server may include a mail server or other messaging functionality for receiving and routing messages between social networking system and one or more client systems . An API request server may allow a third party system to access information from social networking system by calling one or more APIs. An action logger may be used to receive communications from a web server about a user s actions on or off social networking system . In conjunction with the action log a third party content object log may be maintained of user exposures to third party content objects. A notification controller may provide information regarding content objects to a client system . Information may be pushed to a client system as notifications or information may be pulled from client system responsive to a request received from client system . Authorization servers may be used to enforce one or more privacy settings of the users of social networking system . A privacy setting of a user determines how particular information associated with a user can be shared. The authorization server may allow users to opt in to or opt out of having their actions logged by social networking system or shared with other systems e.g. third party system such as for example by setting appropriate privacy settings. Third party content object stores may be used to store content objects received from third parties such as a third party system . Location stores may be used for storing location information received from client systems associated with users. Advertisement pricing modules may combine social information the current time location information or other suitable information to provide relevant advertisements in the form of notifications to a user.

In particular embodiments a user node may correspond to a user of social networking system . As an example and not by way of limitation a user may be an individual human user an entity e.g. an enterprise business or third party application or a group e.g. of individuals or entities that interacts or communicates with or over social networking system . In particular embodiments when a user registers for an account with social networking system social networking system may create a user node corresponding to the user and store the user node in one or more data stores. Users and user nodes described herein may where appropriate refer to registered users and user nodes associated with registered users. In addition or as an alternative users and user nodes described herein may where appropriate refer to users that have not registered with social networking system . In particular embodiments a user node may be associated with information provided by a user or information gathered by various systems including social networking system . As an example and not by way of limitation a user may provide his or her name profile picture contact information birth date sex marital status family status employment education background preferences interests or other demographic information. In particular embodiments a user node may be associated with one or more data objects corresponding to information associated with a user. In particular embodiments a user node may correspond to one or more webpages.

In particular embodiments a concept node may correspond to a concept. As an example and not by way of limitation a concept may correspond to a place such as for example a movie theater restaurant landmark or city a website such as for example a website associated with social network system or a third party website associated with a web application server an entity such as for example a person business group sports team or celebrity a resource such as for example an audio file video file digital photo text file structured document or application which may be located within social networking system or on an external server such as a web application server real or intellectual property such as for example a sculpture painting movie game song idea photograph or written work a game an activity an idea or theory another suitable concept or two or more such concepts. A concept node may be associated with information of a concept provided by a user or information gathered by various systems including social networking system . As an example and not by way of limitation information of a concept may include a name or a title one or more images e.g. an image of the cover page of a book a location e.g. an address or a geographical location a website which may be associated with a URL contact information e.g. a phone number or an email address other suitable concept information or any suitable combination of such information. In particular embodiments a concept node may be associated with one or more data objects corresponding to information associated with concept node . In particular embodiments a concept node may correspond to one or more webpages.

In particular embodiments a node in social graph may represent or be represented by a webpage which may be referred to as a profile page . Profile pages may be hosted by or accessible to social networking system . Profile pages may also be hosted on third party websites associated with a third party server . As an example and not by way of limitation a profile page corresponding to a particular external webpage may be the particular external webpage and the profile page may correspond to a particular concept node . Profile pages may be viewable by all or a selected subset of other users. As an example and not by way of limitation a user node may have a corresponding user profile page in which the corresponding user may add content make declarations or otherwise express himself or herself. As another example and not by way of limitation a concept node may have a corresponding concept profile page in which one or more users may add content make declarations or express themselves particularly in relation to the concept corresponding to concept node .

In particular embodiments a concept node may represent a third party webpage or resource hosted by a third party system . The third party webpage or resource may include among other elements content a selectable or other icon or other inter actable object which may be implemented for example in JavaScript AJAX or PHP codes representing an action or activity. As an example and not by way of limitation a third party webpage may include a selectable icon such as like check in eat recommend or another suitable action or activity. A user viewing the third party webpage may perform an action by selecting one of the icons e.g. eat causing a client system to transmit to social networking system a message indicating the user s action. In response to the message social networking system may create an edge e.g. an eat edge between a user node corresponding to the user and a concept node corresponding to the third party webpage or resource and store edge in one or more data stores.

In particular embodiments a pair of nodes in social graph may be connected to each other by one or more edges . An edge connecting a pair of nodes may represent a relationship between the pair of nodes. In particular embodiments an edge may include or represent one or more data objects or attributes corresponding to the relationship between a pair of nodes. As an example and not by way of limitation a first user may indicate that a second user is a friend of the first user. In response to this indication social networking system may transmit a friend request to the second user. If the second user confirms the friend request social networking system may create an edge connecting the first user s user node to the second user s user node in social graph and store edge as social graph information in one or more of data stores . In the example of social graph includes an edge indicating a friend relation between user nodes of user A and user B and an edge indicating a friend relation between user nodes of user C and user B. Although this disclosure describes or illustrates particular edges with particular attributes connecting particular user nodes this disclosure contemplates any suitable edges with any suitable attributes connecting user nodes . As an example and not by way of limitation an edge may represent a friendship family relationship business or employment relationship fan relationship follower relationship visitor relationship subscriber relationship superior subordinate relationship reciprocal relationship non reciprocal relationship another suitable type of relationship or two or more such relationships. Moreover although this disclosure generally describes nodes as being connected this disclosure also describes users or concepts as being connected. Herein references to users or concepts being connected may where appropriate refer to the nodes corresponding to those users or concepts being connected in social graph by one or more edges .

In particular embodiments an edge between a user node and a concept node may represent a particular action or activity performed by a user associated with user node toward a concept associated with a concept node . As an example and not by way of limitation as illustrated in a user may like attended played listened cooked worked at or watched a concept each of which may correspond to a edge type or subtype. A concept profile page corresponding to a concept node may include for example a selectable check in icon such as for example a clickable check in icon or a selectable add to favorites icon. Similarly after a user clicks these icons social networking system may create a favorite edge or a check in edge in response to a user s action corresponding to a respective action. As another example and not by way of limitation a user user C may listen to a particular song Imagine using a particular application SPOTIFY which is an online music application . In this case social networking system may create a listened edge and a used edge as illustrated in between user nodes corresponding to the user and concept nodes corresponding to the song and application to indicate that the user listened to the song and used the application. Moreover social networking system may create a played edge as illustrated in between concept nodes corresponding to the song and the application to indicate that the particular song was played by the particular application. In this case played edge corresponds to an action performed by an external application SPOTIFY on an external audio file the song Imagine . Although this disclosure describes particular edges with particular attributes connecting user nodes and concept nodes this disclosure contemplates any suitable edges with any suitable attributes connecting user nodes and concept nodes . Moreover although this disclosure describes edges between a user node and a concept node representing a single relationship this disclosure contemplates edges between a user node and a concept node representing one or more relationships. As an example and not by way of limitation an edge may represent both that a user likes and has used at a particular concept. Alternatively another edge may represent each type of relationship or multiples of a single relationship between a user node and a concept node as illustrated in between user node for user E and concept node for SPOTIFY .

In particular embodiments social networking system may create an edge between a user node and a concept node in social graph . As an example and not by way of limitation a user viewing a concept profile page such as for example by using a web browser or a special purpose application hosted by the user s client system may indicate that he or she likes the concept represented by the concept node by clicking or selecting a Like icon which may cause the user s client system to transmit to social networking system a message indicating the user s liking of the concept associated with the concept profile page. In response to the message social networking system may create an edge between user node associated with the user and concept node as illustrated by like edge between the user and concept node . In particular embodiments social networking system may store an edge in one or more data stores. In particular embodiments an edge may be automatically formed by social networking system in response to a particular user action. As an example and not by way of limitation if a first user uploads a picture watches a movie or listens to a song an edge may be formed between user node corresponding to the first user and concept nodes corresponding to those concepts. Although this disclosure describes forming particular edges in particular manners this disclosure contemplates forming any suitable edges in any suitable manner.

In particular embodiments one or more client side and or backend server side processes implement and utilize a typeahead feature to automatically attempt to match concepts corresponding to respective existing user nodes or concept nodes to information currently being entered by a user in an input form rendered in conjunction with a requested webpage such as a user profile page which may be hosted or accessible in by social networking system . In particular embodiments as a user is entering text to make a declaration the typeahead feature attempts to match the string of textual characters being entered in the declaration to strings of characters e.g. names corresponding to existing concepts or users and corresponding concept or user nodes in the social graph . In particular embodiments when a match is found the typeahead feature may automatically populate the form with a reference to the node such as for example the node name node ID or another suitable reference or identifier of the existing node.

In particular embodiments as a user types or otherwise enters text into a form used to add content or make declarations in various sections of the user s profile page or other page the typeahead process may work in conjunction with one or more frontend client side and or backend server side typeahead processes hereinafter referred to simply as typeahead process executing at or within social networking system e.g. within servers to interactively and virtually instantaneously as appearing to the user attempt to auto populate the form with a term or terms corresponding to names of existing social graph entities or terms associated with existing social graph entities determined to be the most relevant or best match to the characters of text entered by the user as the user enters the characters of text. Utilizing the social graph information in a social graph database or information extracted and indexed from the social graph database including information associated with nodes and edges the typeahead processes in conjunction with the information from the social graph database as well as potentially in conjunction with various others processes applications or databases located within or executing within social networking system are able to predict a user s intended declaration with a high degree of precision. However social networking system also provides user s with the freedom to enter any declaration they wish enabling users to express themselves freely.

In particular embodiments as a user enters text characters into a form box or other field the typeahead processes may attempt to identify existing social graph elements e.g. user nodes concept nodes or edges that match the string of characters entered in the user s declaration as the user is entering the characters. In particular embodiments as the user enters characters into a form box the typeahead process may read the string of entered textual characters. As each keystroke is made the frontend typeahead process may transmit the entered character string as a request or call to the backend typeahead process executing within social networking system . In particular embodiments the typeahead processes may communicate via AJAX Asynchronous JavaScript and XML or other suitable techniques and particularly asynchronous techniques. In one particular embodiment the request is or comprises an XMLHTTPRequest XHR enabling quick and dynamic sending and fetching of results. In particular embodiments the typeahead process also transmits before after or with the request a section identifier section ID that identifies the particular section of the particular page in which the user is making the declaration. In particular embodiments a user ID parameter may also be sent but this may be unnecessary in some embodiments as the user is already known based on he or she logging into social networking system .

In particular embodiments the typeahead process may use one or more matching algorithms to attempt to identify matching social graph elements. In particular embodiments when a match or matches are found the typeahead process may transmit a response which may utilize AJAX or other suitable techniques to the user s client system that may include for example the names name strings of the matching social graph elements as well as potentially other metadata associated with the matching social graph elements. As an example and not by way of limitation if a user entering the characters dat into a query field the typeahead process may display a drop down menu that displays names of matching existing profile pages and respective user nodes or concept nodes e.g. a profile page named or devoted to dating which the user can then click on or otherwise select thereby confirming the desire to declare the matched user or concept name corresponding to the selected node. As another example and not by way of limitation upon clicking dating the typeahead process may auto populate or causes the web browser to auto populate the query field with the declaration Dating . In particular embodiments the typeahead process may simply auto populate the field with the name or other identifier of the top ranked match rather than display a drop down menu. The user may then confirm the auto populated declaration simply by keying enter on his or her keyboard or by clicking on the auto populated declaration.

More information on typeahead processes may be found in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 763 162 filed 19 Apr. 2010 and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 556 072 filed 23 Jul. 2012 which are incorporated by reference.

In particular embodiments the typeahead processes described herein may be applied to search queries entered by a user. As an example and not by way of limitation as a user enters text characters into a search field a typeahead process may attempt to identify one or more user nodes concept nodes or edges that match the string of characters entered search field as the user is entering the characters. As the typeahead process receives requests or calls including a string or n gram from the text query the typeahead process may perform or causes to be performed a search to identify existing social graph elements i.e. user nodes concept nodes edges having respective names types categories or other identifiers matching the entered text. The typeahead process may use one or more matching algorithms to attempt to identify matching nodes or edges. When a match or matches are found the typeahead process may transmit a response to the user s client system that may include for example the names name strings of the matching nodes as well as potentially other metadata associated with the matching nodes. The typeahead process may then display a drop down menu that displays names of matching existing profile pages and respective user nodes or concept nodes and displays names of matching edges that may connect to the matching user nodes or concept nodes which the user can then click on or otherwise select thereby confirming the desire to search for the matched user or concept name corresponding to the selected node or to search for users or concepts connected to the matched users or concepts by the matching edges. Alternatively the typeahead process may simply auto populate the form with the name or other identifier of the top ranked match rather than display a drop down menu . The user may then confirm the auto populated declaration simply by keying enter on a keyboard or by clicking on the auto populated declaration. Upon user confirmation of the matching nodes and edges the typeahead process may transmit a request that informs social networking system of the user s confirmation of a query containing the matching social graph elements. In response to the request transmitted social networking system may automatically or alternately based on an instruction in the request call or otherwise search a social graph database for the matching social graph elements or for social graph elements connected to the matching social graph elements as appropriate. Although this disclosure describes applying the typeahead processes to search queries in a particular manner this disclosure contemplates applying the typeahead processes to search queries in any suitable manner.

In connection with search queries and search results particular embodiments may utilize one or more systems components elements functions methods operations or steps disclosed in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 503 093 filed 11 Aug. 2006 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 977 027 filed 22 Dec. 2010 and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 978 265 filed 23 Dec. 2010 which are incorporated by reference.

In particular embodiments social networking system may receive from a querying first user corresponding to a first user node an unstructured text query. As an example and not by way of limitation a first user may want to search for other users who 1 are first degree friends of the first user and 2 are associated with Stanford University i.e. the user nodes are connected by an edge to the concept node corresponding to the school Stanford . The first user may then enter a text query friends stanford into query field as illustrated in . As the first user enters this text query into query field social networking system may provide various suggested structured queries as illustrated in drop down menus . As used herein an unstructured text query refers to a simple text string inputted by a user. The text query may of course be structured with respect to standard language grammar rules e.g. English language grammar . However the text query will ordinarily be unstructured with respect to social graph elements. In other words a simple text query will not ordinarily include embedded references to particular social graph elements. Thus as used herein a structured query refers to a query that contains references to particular social graph elements allowing the search engine to search based on the identified elements. Furthermore the text query may be unstructured with respect to formal query syntax. In other words a simple text query will not necessarily be in the format of a query command that is directly executable by a search engine. Although this disclosure describes receiving particular queries in a particular manner this disclosure contemplates receiving any suitable queries in any suitable manner.

In particular embodiments social networking system may parse the unstructured text query also simply referred to as a search query received from the first user i.e. the querying user to identify one or more n grams. In general an n gram is a contiguous sequence of n items from a given sequence of text or speech. The items may be characters phonemes syllables letters words base pairs prefixes or other identifiable items from the sequence of text or speech. The n gram may comprise one or more characters of text letters numbers punctuation etc. entered by the querying user. An n gram of size one can be referred to as a unigram of size two can be referred to as a bigram or digram of size three can be referred to as a trigram and so on. Each n gram may include one or more parts from the text query received from the querying user. In particular embodiments each n gram may comprise a character string e.g. one or more characters of text entered by the first user. As an example and not by way of limitation social networking system may parse the text query friends stanford to identify the following n grams friends stanford friends stanford. As another example and not by way of limitation social networking system may parse the text query friends in palo alto to identify the following n grams friends in palo alto friends in in palo palo alto friend in palo in palo also friends in palo alto. In particular embodiments each n gram may comprise a contiguous sequence of n items from the text query. Although this disclosure describes parsing particular queries in a particular manner this disclosure contemplates parsing any suitable queries in any suitable manner.

In particular embodiments social networking system may determine or calculate for each n gram identified in the text query a score that the n gram corresponds to a social graph element. The score may be for example a confidence score a probability a quality a ranking another suitable type of score or any combination thereof. As an example and not by way of limitation social networking system may determine a probability score also referred to simply as a probability that the n gram corresponds to a social graph element such as a user node a concept node or an edge of social graph . The probability score may indicate the level of similarity or relevance between the n gram and a particular social graph element. There may be many different ways to calculate the probability. The present disclosure contemplates any suitable method to calculate a probability score for an n gram identified in a search query. In particular embodiments social networking system may determine a probability p that an n gram corresponds to a particular social graph element. The probability p may be calculated as the probability of corresponding to a particular social graph element k given a particular search query X. In other words the probability may be calculated as p k X . As an example and not by way of limitation a probability that an n gram corresponds to a social graph element may calculated as an probability score denoted as p. The input may be a text query X x x . . . x and a set of classes. For each i j and a class k social networking system may compute p p class x k X . In particular embodiments the identified social graph elements may be used to generate a query command that is executable by a search engine. The query command may be a structured semantic query with defined functions that accept specific arguments. As an example and not by way of limitation the text query friend me mark could be parsed to form the query command intersect friend me friend Mark . In other words the query is looking for nodes in the social graph that intersect the querying user me and the user Mark i.e. those user nodes that are connected to both the user node of the querying user by a friend type edge and the user node for the user Mark by a friend type edge . Although this disclosure describes determining whether n grams correspond to social graph elements in a particular manner this disclosure contemplates determining whether n grams correspond to social graph elements in any suitable manner. Moreover although this disclosure describes determining whether an n gram corresponds to a social graph element using a particular type of score this disclosure contemplates determining whether an n gram corresponds to a social graph element using any suitable type of score.

In particular embodiments social networking system may identify one or more edges having a probability greater than an edge threshold probability. Each of the identified edges may correspond to at least one of the n grams. As an example and not by way of limitation the n gram may only be identified as corresponding to an edge k if p p. Furthermore each of the identified edges may be connected to at least one of the identified nodes. In other words social networking system may only identify edges or edge types that are connected to user nodes or concept nodes that have previously been identified as corresponding to a particular n gram. Edges or edge types that are not connected to any previously identified node are typically unlikely to correspond to a particular n gram in a search query. By filtering out or ignoring these edges and edge types social networking system may more efficiently search the social graph for relevant social graph elements. Although this disclosure describes identifying edges that correspond to n grams in a particular manner this disclosure contemplates identifying edges that correspond to n grams in any suitable manner.

In particular embodiments social networking system may identify one or more user nodes or concept nodes having a probability greater than a node threshold probability. Each of the identified nodes may correspond to at least one of the n grams. As an example and not by way of limitation the n gram may only be identified as corresponding to a node k if p p. Furthermore each of the identified user nodes or concept nodes may be connected to at least one of the identified edges . In other words social networking system may only identify nodes or nodes types that are connected to edges that have previously been identified as corresponding to a particular n gram. Nodes or node types that are not connected to any previously identified edges are typically unlikely to correspond to a particular n gram in a search query. By filtering out or ignoring these nodes and node types social networking system may more efficiently search the social graph for relevant social graph elements. Although this disclosure describes identifying nodes that correspond to n grams in a particular manner this disclosure contemplates identifying nodes that correspond to n grams in any suitable manner.

In particular embodiments social networking system may access a context free grammar model comprising a plurality of grammars. Each grammar of the grammar model may comprise one or more non terminal tokens or non terminal symbols and one or more terminal tokens or terminal symbols query tokens where particular non terminal tokens may be replaced by terminal tokens. A grammar model is a set of formation rules for strings in a formal language. In particular embodiments the plurality of grammars may be visualized as a grammar forest organized as an ordered tree with the internal nodes corresponding to non terminal tokens and the leaf nodes corresponding to terminal tokens. Each grammar may be represented as a sub tree within the grammar forest where the grammars are adjoining each other via non terminal tokens. Thus two or more grammars may be a sub forest within the grammar forest. Although this disclosure describes accessing particular grammars this disclosure contemplates any suitable grammars.

In particular embodiments social networking system may generate one or more strings using one or more grammars. To generate a string in the language one begins with a string consisting of only a single start symbol. The production rules are then applied in any order until a string that contains neither the start symbol nor designated non terminal symbols is produced. In a context free grammar the production of each non terminal symbol of the grammar is independent of what is produced by other non terminal symbols of the grammar. The non terminal symbols may be replaced with terminal symbols i.e. terminal tokens or query tokens . Some of the query tokens may be social graph tokens which may correspond to identified nodes or identified edges as described previously. A string generated by the grammar may then be used as the basis for a structured query containing references to the identified nodes or identified edges. The string generated by the grammar may be rendered in a natural language syntax such that a structured query based on the string is also rendered in natural language. A context free grammar is a grammar in which the left hand side of each production rule consists of only a single non terminal symbol. A probabilistic context free grammar is a tuple N S P where the disjoint sets and N specify the terminal and non terminal symbols respectively with S N being the start symbol. P is the set of productions which take the form E p with E N N and p Pr E the probability that E will be expanded into the string . The sum of probabilities p over all expansions of a given non terminal E must be one. Although this disclosure describes generating strings in a particular manner this disclosure contemplates generating strings in any suitable manner.

In particular embodiments social networking system may identify one or more query tokens corresponding to the previously identified nodes and edges. In other words if an identified node or identified edge may be used as a query token in a particular grammar that query token may be identified by social networking system . Query tokens may include grammar tokens or social graph tokens. A grammar token is a query token corresponding to text inserted to render in a natural language syntax. A social graph token is a query token corresponding to a particular node or edge of social graph . As an example and not by way of limitation an example grammar may be user user filter school . The non terminal symbols user user filter and school could then be determined based n grams in the received text query. For the text query friends stanford this query could be parsed by using the grammar as for example friends who go to Stanford University or friends who work at Stanford University . In this example the query tokens friends go to work at and Stanford University may all be social graph tokens that correspond to particular nodes and edges of social graph . Similarly the query token who may be a grammar token which was inserted by the grammar in order to render the structured query in a natural language syntax. In both the example cases above if the n grams of the received text query could be used as query tokens then these query tokens may be identified by social networking system . Although this disclosure describes identifying particular query tokens in a particular manner this disclosure contemplates identifying any suitable query tokens in any suitable manner.

In particular embodiments social networking system may select one or more grammars having at least one query token corresponding to each of the previously identified nodes and edges. Only particular grammars may be used depending on the n grams identified in the text query. So the terminal tokens of all available grammars should be examined to find those that match the identified n grams from the text query. In other words if a particular grammar can use all of the identified nodes and edges as query tokens that grammar may be selected by social networking system as a possible grammar to use for generating a structured query. This is effectively a type of bottom up parsing where the possible query tokens are used to determine the applicable grammar to apply to the query. As an example and not by way of limitation for the text query friends stanford the social networking system may identify the query tokens of friends and Stanford University . Terminal tokens of the grammars from the grammar model may be identified as previously discussed. Any grammar that is able to use both the friends and the Stanford University tokens may then be selected. For example the grammar user user filter school may be selected because this grammar could use the friends and the Stanford University tokens as query tokens such as by forming the strings friends who go to Stanford University or friends who work at Stanford University . Thus if the n grams of the received text query could be used as query tokens in the grammars then these grammars may be selected by social networking system . Similarly if the received text query comprises n grams that could not be used as query tokens in the grammar that grammar may not be selected. Although this disclosure describes selecting particular grammars in a particular manner this disclosure contemplates selecting any suitable grammars in any suitable manner.

In particular embodiments social networking system may select one or more grammars by analyzing a grammar forest formed by a plurality of grammars. The grammar forest may be organized as an ordered tree comprising a plurality of non terminal tokens and a plurality of terminal tokens. Each grammar may be represented as a sub tree within the grammar forest and each sub tree may adjoin other sub trees via one or more additional non terminal tokens. As an example and not by way of limitation social networking system may start by identifying all the terminal tokens i.e. query tokens in the grammar forest that correspond to identified nodes and edges corresponding to portions of a text query. Once these query tokens in the grammar forest have been identified social networking system may then traverse the grammar forest up from each of these query tokens to identify one or more intersecting non terminal tokens. Once a non terminal token has been identified where paths from all the query tokens intersect that intersecting non terminal token may be selected and the one or more grammars adjoined to that intersecting non terminal token in the grammar forest may then be selected. Although this disclosure describes selecting grammars in a particular manner this disclosure contemplates selecting grammars in any suitable manner.

In particular embodiments social networking system may generate a semantic tree corresponding to the text query from the querying user. The semantic tree may include each identified query token that corresponds to a previously identified node or edge and may also include an intersect token. The semantic tree may also include non terminal tokens as appropriate connecting the query tokens to the intersect token. As an example and not by way of limitation the text query friends stanford may be parsed into the query command intersect school friends of . In other words the query is looking for nodes in the social graph that intersect both friends of the querying user me i.e. those user nodes that are connected to the user node of the querying user by a friend type edge and the concept node for Stanford University. Although this disclosure describes generating particular semantic trees in a particular manner this disclosure contemplates generating any suitable semantic trees in any suitable manner.

In particular embodiments social networking system may analyze a grammar forest comprising a plurality of grammars to identify one or more sets of non terminal tokens and query tokens that substantially match a semantic tree corresponding to a query where each set has a non terminal token corresponding to the intersect token of the semantic tree. Social networking system may then select one or more of the grammars in the grammar forest adjoining the non terminal token corresponding to the intersect token. The algorithm will attempt to find the lowest cost multi path in the grammar forest that leads to an intersect token and the intersect token corresponding to this lowest cost multi path may be preferentially selected over other intersect tokens if any . Although this disclosure describes analyzing particular grammar forests in a particular manner this disclosure contemplates analyzing any suitable grammar forests in any suitable manner.

In particular embodiments social networking system may determine a score for each selected grammar. The score may be for example a confidence score a probability a quality a ranking another suitable type of score or any combination thereof. The score may be based on the individual scores or probabilities associated with the query tokens used in the selected grammar. A grammar may have a higher relative score if it uses query tokens with relatively higher individual scores. In particular embodiments social networking system may determine a score for a selected grammar based on social graph affinity. Affinity may represent the strength of a relationship or level of interest between particular objects associated with the online social network such as users concepts content actions advertisements other objects associated with the online social network or any suitable combination thereof. Grammars with query tokens corresponding to social graph elements having a higher affinity with respect to the querying user may be scored more highly than grammars with query tokens corresponding to social graph elements having a lower affinity with respect to the querying user. In particular embodiments social networking system may determine a score for a selected grammar based on the lengths of the paths traversed in order to identify the intersect token corresponding to the selected grammar. Grammars with lower cost multi paths i.e. shorter paths may be scored more highly than grammars with high cost multi paths i.e. longer paths . In particular embodiments social networking system may determine a score for a selected grammar based on advertising sponsorship. An advertiser such as for example the user or administrator of a particular profile page corresponding to a particular node may sponsor a particular node such that a grammar that includes a query token referencing that sponsored node may be scored more highly. Although this disclosure describes determining particular scores for particular grammars in a particular manner this disclosure contemplates determining any suitable scores for any suitable grammars in any suitable manner. In connection with social graph affinity and affinity coefficients particular embodiments may utilize one or more systems components elements functions methods operations or steps disclosed in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 503 093 filed 11 Aug. 2006 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 977 027 filed 22 Dec. 2010 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 978 265 filed 23 Dec. 2010 and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 632 869 field 1 Oct. 2012 each of which is incorporated by reference.

In particular embodiments social networking system may select one or more grammars having a score greater than a grammar threshold score. Each of the selected grammars may contain query tokens that correspond to each of the identified nodes or identified edges which correspond to n grams of the received text query . In particular embodiments the grammars may be ranked based on their determined scores and only grammars within a threshold rank may be selected e.g. top seven . Although this disclosure describes selecting grammars in a particular manner this disclosure contemplates selecting grammars in any suitable manner.

In particular embodiments social networking system may generate one or more structured queries corresponding to the selected grammars e.g. those grammars having a score greater than a grammar threshold score . Each structured query may be based on a string generated by the corresponding selected grammar. As an example and not by way of limitation in response to the text query friends stanford the grammar user user filter school may generate a string friends who go to Stanford University where the non terminal tokens user user filter school of the grammar have been replaced by the terminal tokens friends who go to and Stanford University respectively to generate the string. In particular embodiments a string that is generated by grammar using a natural language syntax may be rendered as a structured query in natural language. As an example and not by way of limitation the structured query from the previous example uses the terminal token who go to which uses a natural language syntax so that the string rendered by grammar is in natural language. The natural language string generated by a grammar may then be rendered to form a structured query by modifying the query tokens corresponding to social graph element to include references to those social graph elements. As an example and not by way of limitation the string friends who go to Stanford University may be rendered so that the query token for Stanford University appears in the structured query as a reference to the concept node corresponding to the school Stanford University where the reference may be include highlighting an inline link a snippet another suitable reference or any combination thereof. Each structured query may comprise query tokens corresponding to the corresponding selected grammar where these query tokens correspond to one or more of the identified edges and one or more of the identified nodes. Generating structured queries is described more below.

In particular embodiments social networking system may generate a set of structured queries based on the text query received from the querying user. The generated structured queries may be based on natural language strings generated by one or more context free grammars as described previously. Each structured query may comprise query tokens from the corresponding grammar. The query tokens may be social graph tokens corresponding to one or more of the identified user nodes or one or more of the identified edges . As an example and not by way of limitation in response to the text query show me friends of my girlfriend the social networking system may generate a structured query Friends of Stephanie where Friends and Stephanie in the structured query are references corresponding to particular social graph elements. The reference to Stephanie would correspond to a particular user node i.e. a user node corresponding to the user Stephanie which is connected to a user node of the querying user by a in relationship type edge while the reference to friends would correspond to friend edges connecting that user node to other user nodes i.e. edges connecting to Stephanie s first degree friends . In particular embodiments social networking system may filter the set of structured queries generated in response to the text query based on the quality of each structured query. When parsing certain unstructured text queries social networking system may generate low quality or irrelevant structured queries in response. This may happen when the text query contains terms that do not match well with the grammar model such that when the term is parsed by the grammar model it is matched to irrelevant query tokens. As an example and not by way of limitation a text query for tall people might not generate any relevant structured queries because the terms may not be parsed well by the grammar model if these terms do not match any query tokens used in the grammar model e.g. the terms to not match any social graph elements or possibly only have low quality matches e.g. a low quality match may be a structured query referencing a page or group named Tall People . These low quality suggested queries may be ridiculous or embarrassing may contain query tokens that false matches or are irrelevant or may simply not match with the query intent of the user. Regardless it may be desirable to filter out these structured queries before they are sent to the querying user as suggested queries. In order to avoid sending such queries to the user as suggestions each structured query may be analyzed and scored based on a variety of factors that signal a particular suggested query may be of low quality or irrelevant. Each structured query in the set generated by social networking system may be scored based on the text query itself and the structured query. Structured queries having a poor quality score may be filtered out such that only high quality structured queries are presented to the querying user. Although this disclosure describes generating particular structured queries in a particular manner this disclosure contemplates generating any suitable structured queries in any suitable manner.

In particular embodiments social networking system may generate a set of structured queries based on a text query received from a user of the online social network. Each structured query may comprise one or more query tokens which may be grammar tokens or social graph tokens corresponding to the identified concept nodes and one or more of the identified edges . These structured queries may allow the social networking system to more efficiently search for resources and content related to the online social network such as for example profile pages by searching for content objects connected to or otherwise related to the identified concept nodes and the identified edges . As an example and not by way of limitation in response to the text query friends like facebook the social networking system may generate a structured query My friends who like Facebook . In this example the references in the structured query to friends like and Facebook are social graph tokens corresponding to particular social graph elements as described previously i.e. a friend edge a like edge and a Facebook concept node . Similarly the references to my and who are grammar tokens which are included in the structured query so that it is rendered in a natural language syntax. In particular embodiments the social networking system may generate a plurality of structured queries where the structured queries may comprise references to different identified concept nodes or different identified edges . As an example and not by way of limitation continuing with the previous example in addition to the structured query My friends who like Facebook the social networking system may also generate a structured query My friends who like Facebook Culinary Team where Facebook Culinary Team in the structured query is a query token corresponding to yet another social graph element. In particular embodiments social networking system may rank the generated structured queries. The structured queries may be ranked based on a variety of factors. In particular embodiments the social networking system may ranks structured queries based on advertising sponsorship. An advertiser such as for example the user or administrator of a particular profile page corresponding to a particular node may sponsor a particular node such that a structured query referencing that node may be ranked more highly. Although this disclosure describes generating particular structured queries in a particular manner this disclosure contemplates generating any suitable structured queries in any suitable manner.

In particular embodiments social networking system may calculate a quality score for a structured query based on the text query and the structured query. The quality score may be for example a confidence score a probability a quality a ranking another suitable type of score or any combination thereof. As an example and not by way of limitation when determining a quality score s for a structured query social networking system may factor in the text query received from the querying user and the structured query generated in response to the text query. Thus the quality score corresponding to a particular structured query s given a particular search query X and the particular structured query Q may be calculated as s X Q . The quality score may be calculated in a variety of ways and using a variety of factors. As an example and not by way of limitation the quality score for a structured query may be calculated based in part on one or more of the generation cost the normalized cost the grammar insertion cost the entity numerosity cost the language model score the entity insertion cost other suitable factors or any combination thereof. In particular embodiments social networking system may calculate the quality score for a structured query based on the generation cost of the structured query. A cost may be associated with each query token used to generate a structured query. As more query tokens are used to construct the structured query the cost of the query may increase. Furthermore different query tokens and types of tokens may have different costs. When generating a set of structured queries in response to a text query social networking system may attempt to generate structured queries having the lowest generation cost possible. This may be done for example similarly to or in conjunction with selecting grammars from the grammar model. Grammars having lower cost multi paths may generate structured queries having lower generation costs where the shortest path grammar should produce the structured query having the lowest generation cost. Although this disclosure describes determining quality scores for particular structured queries in a particular manner this disclosure contemplates determining quality scores for any suitable structured queries in any suitable manner.

In particular embodiments social networking system may calculate the quality score for a structured query based on a normalized cost of the structured query. The number of terms in the text query received from the querying user e.g. the number of identified n grams in the text query should normally be proportional to the number of query tokens in the structured query generated in response to that text query. Ideally the ratio of n grams to query tokes should approach unity 1 1 . Thus if the grammar model parses the text query and generates a structured query having substantially more query tokens than expected it is likely that the structured query is of low quality. In other words if the grammar model has to insert a significant number of query tokens in order to identify a grammar that matches the text query then the structured query generated by that grammar is likely of low quality. Similarly for longer text queries it is expected that the structured query generated in response to the text query would contain more query tokens and thus have a higher generation cost. Thus the cost for generating the structured query may be normalized based on the length of the text query such that high cost structured queries may be identified as being of low quality if the cost is disproportionate to the length of the text query. Structured queries having high normalized costs indicate that they are of low quality such that a high normalize cost correlates to a low quality score. In particular embodiments social networking system may determine the number of n grams in the text query received from the querying user and determine the number of query tokens in the structured query. Social networking system may then calculate a normalized cost based on the ratio of the number of n grams in the text query to the number of query tokens in the structured query. As an example and not by way of limitation for the text query friends stanford social networking system may generate a structured query such as Friends who go to Stanford University as illustrated in . Social networking system may then determine that the text query has two n grams friends and stanford which were parsed by the grammar model to generate a structured query having three query tokens friends who go to and Stanford University . Thus the grammar model inserted a single query token who go to in order to match the text query to string. Since the ratio of query tokens to n grams in the text query is relatively low 3 2 this structured query may have a relatively low normalized cost indicating it is a relatively high quality structured query. As another example and not by way of limitation in response to the text query friends stanford social networking system may generate a structured query such as People who are friends with people who go to Stanford University . In this case the structured query contains significantly more query tokens than the prior example. When the cost of generating this structured query is normalized based on the number of n grams in the text query it will have a high normalized cost which indicates it should have a low quality score and thus should be filtered out. Although this disclosure describes calculating quality scores for structured queries in a particular manner this disclosure contemplates calculating quality scores for structured queries in any suitable manner.

In particular embodiments social networking system may calculate the quality score for a structured query based on a grammar insertion cost of the structured query. When generating a structured query using the grammar model the number of grammar tokens inserted to generate the structured query should ideally be minimized. Thus if the grammar model parses the text query and generates a structured query having significantly more grammar tokens than expected it is likely that the structured query is of low quality. In other words if the grammar model has to insert a significant number of grammar tokens in order to identify a grammar that matches the text query and thus render the structured query in a natural language syntax then the structured query generated by that grammar is likely of low quality. Structured queries having high grammar insertion costs i.e. the cost associated with inserting grammar tokens into the structured query indicate that they are of low quality such that a high grammar insertion cost correlates to a low quality score. In particular embodiments social networking system may determine a number of n grams in the text query received from the querying user and determine a number of grammar tokens and social graph tokens in the structured query. Social networking system may then calculate a grammar insertion cost based on the ratio of the number of grammar tokens to the number of social graph tokens normalized by the number of n grams. As an example and not by way of limitation for the text query girls i have dated social networking system may generate a structured query such as Female users I have been friends with who like the Dating app . Here the n gram girls matches to the query token Female users and the n gram dated matches to Dating app albeit this itself may be a low quality match . However in order to match the n gram i have the grammar model has to insert the grammar tokens I have been friends with and who like . Thus there is a high grammar insertion cost associated with this structured query because of the relatively high number of grammar tokens inserted in order to generate the query indicating it is a relatively low quality structured query. Although this disclosure describes calculating quality scores for structured queries in a particular manner this disclosure contemplates calculating quality scores for structured queries in any suitable manner.

In particular embodiments social networking system may calculate the quality score for a structured query based on an entity numerosity cost of the structured query. When generating a structured querying using the grammar model some but not all of the social graph tokens should correspond to nodes of the social graph . When parsing a typical unstructured text query it is expected that the structured query generated based on the text query should include a variety of query tokens including some grammar tokens some social graph tokens for edges or edge types and some social graph tokens for user nodes or concept nodes . However if the parsing matches too many terms to nodes or otherwise produces a structured query with a relatively large number of query tokens corresponding to nodes it is likely that some of those nodes are false matches which don t match the query intent of the querying user. In other words if a suggested structured query contains references to too many nodes it is likely of low quality. Structured queries having high entity numerosity costs i.e. the cost associated with inserting social graph tokens corresponding to nodes relatively to the other query tokens indicate that they are of low quality such that a high entity numerosity cost correlates to a low quality score. In particular embodiments social networking system may determine a number of social graph tokens that correspond to nodes in the structured query. Social networking system may then calculated an entity numerosity cost based on the number of social graph tokens in the structured query. As an example and not by way of limitation for the text query girls i have dated from stanford social networking system may generate a structured query such as People from Stanford Calif. who like the Girls I Have Dated page . Here the structured query includes social graph tokens for the city Stanford Calif. and the page Girls I Have Dated each of which corresponds to a particular concept node of social graph . Thus the n gram from stanford is being matched by the grammar model to the query tokens People from Stanford Calif. and the n gram girls i have dated is being matched to the social graph token for the concept node corresponding to the page Girls I Have Dated note that this itself may be a low quality match . Relative to the length of the text query the structured query contains a large number of social graph tokens for nodes. Furthermore a single token Girls I Have Dated is being matched to a large portion of the unstructured text query. Thus there is a high entity numerosity cost associated with this structured query because of the relatively high number of social graph tokens for nodes inserted in order to generate the query indicating it is a relatively low quality structured query. Although this disclosure describes calculating quality scores for structured queries in a particular manner this disclosure contemplates calculating quality scores for structured queries in any suitable manner.

In particular embodiments social networking system may calculate the quality score for a structured query based on a language model score. The language model score may be calculated with respect to the identified terms of the original text query as compared with the query tokens of the structured query. After generating a particular structured query social networking system may analyze each query token and the query tokens adjacent to it in the structured query e.g. the preceding or succeeding tokens based on the sequence of the terms corresponding to those query tokens from the original text query. The probability that the tokens should appear with one or more of the adjacent tokens in the sequence from the original text query can then be analyzed. If the grammar model has inserted query tokens that are unlikely to appear together with adjacent query tokens in the original text query then the structured query is likely of low quality. Structured queries having low language model scores i.e. there are query tokens with low probabilities of appearing together indicate that they are of low quality such that a low language model score correlates to a low quality score. As an example and not by way of limitation social networking system may determine a probability p of a particular query token being paired with particular adjacent terms from the original query. This calculation may factor in the sequence of terms in the original text query. Thus the probability that a particular parsing corresponds to a particular query token pairing may be may be calculated as p t t . . . t where tis the query token being analyzed and t. . . tare the adjacent query tokens 2 to x in the original text query. The individual probabilities for each query token may then be used to determine the overall language model score for a structured query. In particular embodiments social networking system may determine a probability for each query token of a structured query that the query token would appear with the adjacent query tokens in the original text query. Social networking system may then calculate a language model score based on the probabilities for the query tokens. As an example and not by way of limitation for the text query girls i have dated social networking system may generate a structured query such as Female users I have who use the Dating app where the Dating app is a hypothetical application associated with the online social network with an entity type application i.e. it corresponds to a non terminal token application . To calculate the probability for the query token Dating app social networking system may then analyze the other query tokens from the structured query that correspond to adjacent terms in the original text query. In this case social networking system may determine the probability that it would be used the query tokens Female I and have which correspond to the terms girls i and have from the original text query respectively with the query token Dating app or possibly the probability of using the non terminal token application . This probability may be calculated as p Dating app Female I have or the probability of inserting the query token Dating app given the preceding query tokens Female I and have alternatively the probability may be calculated as p application Female I have . In this case there may be a low probability that the query tokens Female I and have would be used before the social graph token Dating app and thus this structured query would have a relatively low language model score indicating it is a relatively low quality structured query. Although this disclosure describes calculating quality scores for structured queries in a particular manner this disclosure contemplates calculating quality scores for structured queries in any suitable manner.

In particular embodiments social networking system may calculate the quality score for a structured query based on an entity insertion cost of the structured query. When parsing a particular text query the terms in the text query e.g. the n grams in the text query should match the query token in the generated structured query as closely as possible. Thus changes to the terms or the addition of terms should increase the cost of generating that particular query token such that a structured query containing such modified tokens may be of low quality. Structured queries having high entity insertion costs i.e. the cost associated with inserting or modifying terms from the text query to make it match a particular query token indicate that they may be of low quality such that a high entity insertion cost correlates with a low quality score. In particular embodiments social networking system may determine for each social graph token in the structured query the number of terms inserted by the grammar to match the social graph token with its corresponding n gram. As an example and not by way of limitation for the text query girls who like dating social networking system may generate the structured query Female users who like the Dating in Palo Alto app . Thus the term dating from the text query has been parsed by the grammar model and matched to the query token for Dating in Palo Alto which may correspond to a particular concept node for an app . However in order to make the term dating match this query token social networking system had to insert the addition terms in Palo Alto to match with the query token Dating in Palo Alto . Thus there is a high entity insertion cost associated with this structured query because of the relatively high number of terms inserted by the grammar model to make the n gram from the text query match the query token in the structured query indicating that it is a relatively low quality structured query. Although this disclosure describes calculating quality scores for structured queries in a particular manner this disclosure contemplates calculating quality scores for structured queries in any suitable manner.

In particular embodiments social networking system may send one or more of the structured queries to the querying user. As an example and not by way of limitation after the structured queries are generated the social networking system may send one or more of the structured queries as a response which may utilize AJAX or other suitable techniques to the user s client system that may include for example the names name strings of the referenced social graph elements other query limitations e.g. Boolean operators etc. as well as potentially other metadata associated with the referenced social graph elements. The web browser on the querying user s client system may display the sent structured queries in a drop down menu as illustrated in . In particular embodiments social networking system may send to the first querying user one or more of the structured queries from the post filtered first set. Each structured query sent to the first user may have a quality score greater than or equal to a threshold quality score. In this way low quality structured queries may be filtered out i.e. removed from the set of structured queries generated for the user . The remaining structured queries after filtering if any may then be ranked and one or more of these may then be sent to the querying user. In particular embodiments if fewer than a threshold number of structured queries remain after filtering then social networking system may generate a web search query based on the text query. In this way if the grammar model fails to produce relevant queries the querying user is still left with an option for performing a search. As an example and not by way of limitation for the text query girls i have dated social networking system may generate very few or even zero structured queries of sufficient quality to send to the querying user as suggested queries. As described previously the parsing of this text query may produce a variety of low quality structured queries each of which may be filtered out by social networking system . Consequently social networking system may instead send a suggested query for performing a web search such as for example Search the web for girls i have dated . If the user selected this suggested query the query may be transmitted to a web search engine e.g. BING GOOGLE etc. via an appropriate API where a standard string matching search may be performed. Results may then be sent back to the social networking system e.g. via an API for display to the querying user. Alternatively when the querying user selects the web search option the user s web browser may be redirect to the webpage for the search engine. In particular embodiments the sent queries may be presented to the querying user in a ranked order such as for example based on a rank previously determined as described above. Structured queries with better rankings may be presented in a more prominent position. Furthermore in particular embodiments only structured queries above a threshold rank may be sent or displayed to the querying user. As an example and not by way of limitation as illustrated in the structured queries may be presented to the querying user in a drop down menu where higher ranked structured queries may be presented at the top of the menu with lower ranked structured queries presented in descending order down the menu. In the examples illustrated in only the seven highest ranked queries are sent and displayed to the user. However in these examples if there are fewer than seven structured queries available to send to the user e.g. because some of have been filtered out due to low quality then only the available structured queries may be sent. Furthermore when there are fewer than seven structured queries social networking system may include a suggested web search query in the set of suggested queries sent to the querying user. In particular embodiments one or more references in a structured query may be highlighted e.g. outlined underlined circled bolded italicized colored lighted offset in caps in order to indicate its correspondence to a particular social graph element. As an example and not by way of limitation as illustrated in the references to Stanford University and Stanford Calif. are highlighted outlined in the structured queries to indicate that it corresponds to a particular concept node . Similarly the references to Friends like work at and go to in the structured queries presented in drop down menu could also be highlighted to indicate that they correspond to particular edges . Although this disclosure describes sending particular structured queries in a particular manner this disclosure contemplates sending any suitable structured queries in any suitable manner.

In particular embodiments social networking system may receive from the querying user a selection of one of the structured queries. Alternatively the social networking system may receive a structured query as a query selected automatically by the system e.g. a default selection in certain contexts. The nodes and edges referenced in the received structured query may be referred to as the selected nodes and selected edges respectively. As an example and not by way of limitation the web browser on the querying user s client system may display the transmitted structured queries in a drop down menu as illustrated in which the user may then click on or otherwise select e.g. by simply keying enter on his keyboard to indicate the particular structured query the user wants the social networking system to execute. Upon selecting the particular structured query the user s client system may call or otherwise instruct to the social networking system to execute the selected structured query. As an example and not by way of limitation in response to a selection of a particular structured query social networking system may generate a query command based on the structured query which may then be sent to one or more data stores to search for content objects that match the constraints of the query command. Although this disclosure describes receiving selections of particular structured queries in a particular manner this disclosure contemplates receiving selections of any suitable structured queries in any suitable manner.

This disclosure contemplates any suitable number of computer systems . This disclosure contemplates computer system taking any suitable physical form. As example and not by way of limitation computer system may be an embedded computer system a system on chip SOC a single board computer system SBC such as for example a computer on module COM or system on module SOM a desktop computer system a laptop or notebook computer system an interactive kiosk a mainframe a mesh of computer systems a mobile telephone a personal digital assistant PDA a server a tablet computer system or a combination of two or more of these. Where appropriate computer system may include one or more computer systems be unitary or distributed span multiple locations span multiple machines span multiple data centers or reside in a cloud which may include one or more cloud components in one or more networks. Where appropriate one or more computer systems may perform without substantial spatial or temporal limitation one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein. As an example and not by way of limitation one or more computer systems may perform in real time or in batch mode one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein. One or more computer systems may perform at different times or at different locations one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein where appropriate.

In particular embodiments computer system includes a processor memory storage an input output I O interface a communication interface and a bus . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular computer system having a particular number of particular components in a particular arrangement this disclosure contemplates any suitable computer system having any suitable number of any suitable components in any suitable arrangement.

In particular embodiments processor includes hardware for executing instructions such as those making up a computer program. As an example and not by way of limitation to execute instructions processor may retrieve or fetch the instructions from an internal register an internal cache memory or storage decode and execute them and then write one or more results to an internal register an internal cache memory or storage . In particular embodiments processor may include one or more internal caches for data instructions or addresses. This disclosure contemplates processor including any suitable number of any suitable internal caches where appropriate. As an example and not by way of limitation processor may include one or more instruction caches one or more data caches and one or more translation lookaside buffers TLBs . Instructions in the instruction caches may be copies of instructions in memory or storage and the instruction caches may speed up retrieval of those instructions by processor . Data in the data caches may be copies of data in memory or storage for instructions executing at processor to operate on the results of previous instructions executed at processor for access by subsequent instructions executing at processor or for writing to memory or storage or other suitable data. The data caches may speed up read or write operations by processor . The TLBs may speed up virtual address translation for processor . In particular embodiments processor may include one or more internal registers for data instructions or addresses. This disclosure contemplates processor including any suitable number of any suitable internal registers where appropriate. Where appropriate processor may include one or more arithmetic logic units ALUs be a multi core processor or include one or more processors . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular processor this disclosure contemplates any suitable processor.

In particular embodiments memory includes main memory for storing instructions for processor to execute or data for processor to operate on. As an example and not by way of limitation computer system may load instructions from storage or another source such as for example another computer system to memory . Processor may then load the instructions from memory to an internal register or internal cache. To execute the instructions processor may retrieve the instructions from the internal register or internal cache and decode them. During or after execution of the instructions processor may write one or more results which may be intermediate or final results to the internal register or internal cache. Processor may then write one or more of those results to memory . In particular embodiments processor executes only instructions in one or more internal registers or internal caches or in memory as opposed to storage or elsewhere and operates only on data in one or more internal registers or internal caches or in memory as opposed to storage or elsewhere . One or more memory buses which may each include an address bus and a data bus may couple processor to memory . Bus may include one or more memory buses as described below. In particular embodiments one or more memory management units MMUs reside between processor and memory and facilitate accesses to memory requested by processor . In particular embodiments memory includes random access memory RAM . This RAM may be volatile memory where appropriate Where appropriate this RAM may be dynamic RAM DRAM or static RAM SRAM . Moreover where appropriate this RAM may be single ported or multi ported RAM. This disclosure contemplates any suitable RAM. Memory may include one or more memories where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular memory this disclosure contemplates any suitable memory.

In particular embodiments storage includes mass storage for data or instructions. As an example and not by way of limitation storage may include a hard disk drive HDD a floppy disk drive flash memory an optical disc a magneto optical disc magnetic tape or a Universal Serial Bus USB drive or a combination of two or more of these. Storage may include removable or non removable or fixed media where appropriate. Storage may be internal or external to computer system where appropriate. In particular embodiments storage is non volatile solid state memory. In particular embodiments storage includes read only memory ROM . Where appropriate this ROM may be mask programmed ROM programmable ROM PROM erasable PROM EPROM electrically erasable PROM EEPROM electrically alterable ROM EAROM or flash memory or a combination of two or more of these. This disclosure contemplates mass storage taking any suitable physical form. Storage may include one or more storage control units facilitating communication between processor and storage where appropriate. Where appropriate storage may include one or more storages . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular storage this disclosure contemplates any suitable storage.

In particular embodiments I O interface includes hardware software or both providing one or more interfaces for communication between computer system and one or more I O devices. Computer system may include one or more of these I O devices where appropriate. One or more of these I O devices may enable communication between a person and computer system . As an example and not by way of limitation an I O device may include a keyboard keypad microphone monitor mouse printer scanner speaker still camera stylus tablet touch screen trackball video camera another suitable I O device or a combination of two or more of these. An I O device may include one or more sensors. This disclosure contemplates any suitable I O devices and any suitable I O interfaces for them. Where appropriate I O interface may include one or more device or software drivers enabling processor to drive one or more of these I O devices. I O interface may include one or more I O interfaces where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular I O interface this disclosure contemplates any suitable I O interface.

In particular embodiments communication interface includes hardware software or both providing one or more interfaces for communication such as for example packet based communication between computer system and one or more other computer systems or one or more networks. As an example and not by way of limitation communication interface may include a network interface controller NIC or network adapter for communicating with an Ethernet or other wire based network or a wireless NIC WNIC or wireless adapter for communicating with a wireless network such as a WI FI network. This disclosure contemplates any suitable network and any suitable communication interface for it. As an example and not by way of limitation computer system may communicate with an ad hoc network a personal area network PAN a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN a metropolitan area network MAN or one or more portions of the Internet or a combination of two or more of these. One or more portions of one or more of these networks may be wired or wireless. As an example computer system may communicate with a wireless PAN WPAN such as for example a BLUETOOTH WPAN a WI FI network a WI MAX network a cellular telephone network such as for example a Global System for Mobile Communications GSM network or other suitable wireless network or a combination of two or more of these. Computer system may include any suitable communication interface for any of these networks where appropriate. Communication interface may include one or more communication interfaces where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular communication interface this disclosure contemplates any suitable communication interface.

In particular embodiments bus includes hardware software or both coupling components of computer system to each other. As an example and not by way of limitation bus may include an Accelerated Graphics Port AGP or other graphics bus an Enhanced Industry Standard Architecture EISA bus a front side bus FSB a HYPERTRANSPORT HT interconnect an Industry Standard Architecture ISA bus an INFINIBAND interconnect a low pin count LPC bus a memory bus a Micro Channel Architecture MCA bus a Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI bus a PCI Express PCIe bus a serial advanced technology attachment SATA bus a Video Electronics Standards Association local VLB bus or another suitable bus or a combination of two or more of these. Bus may include one or more buses where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular bus this disclosure contemplates any suitable bus or interconnect.

Herein a computer readable non transitory storage medium or media may include one or more semiconductor based or other integrated circuits ICs such as for example field programmable gate arrays FPGAs or application specific ICs ASICs hard disk drives HDDs hybrid hard drives HHDs optical discs optical disc drives ODDs magneto optical discs magneto optical drives floppy diskettes floppy disk drives FDDs magnetic tapes solid state drives SSDs RAM drives SECURE DIGITAL cards or drives any other suitable computer readable non transitory storage media or any suitable combination of two or more of these where appropriate. A computer readable non transitory storage medium may be volatile non volatile or a combination of volatile and non volatile where appropriate.

Herein or is inclusive and not exclusive unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Therefore herein A or B means A B or both unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Moreover and is both joint and several unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Therefore herein A and B means A and B jointly or severally unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context.

The scope of this disclosure encompasses all changes substitutions variations alterations and modifications to the example embodiments described or illustrated herein that a person having ordinary skill in the art would comprehend. The scope of this disclosure is not limited to the example embodiments described or illustrated herein. Moreover although this disclosure describes and illustrates respective embodiments herein as including particular components elements functions operations or steps any of these embodiments may include any combination or permutation of any of the components elements functions operations or steps described or illustrated anywhere herein that a person having ordinary skill in the art would comprehend. Furthermore reference in the appended claims to an apparatus or system or a component of an apparatus or system being adapted to arranged to capable of configured to enabled to operable to or operative to perform a particular function encompasses that apparatus system component whether or not it or that particular function is activated turned on or unlocked as long as that apparatus system or component is so adapted arranged capable configured enabled operable or operative.

