---

title: Method and system for configuring a device for use over a communication network
abstract: An approach and system for readying the device for use over a communication network is described. The system processes label information associated with a device unregistered for use by a user over a communication network of a service provider to determine a pairing identifier assigned by the service provider to a transmitter associated with the device. The system also determines a pairing connection is established between the device and the transmitter based on the pairing identifier. The system also determines the transmission of location information associated with the device, the transmitter, or a combination thereof over the pairing connection, over a high speed communication channel established with the service provider, or a combination thereof. The system further initiates a registration procedure of the device with the communication network based on the location information, registration information associated with the device, the transmitter, the user, or a combination thereof, or a combination thereof.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09544762&OS=09544762&RS=09544762
owner: VERIZON PATENT AND LICENSING INC.
number: 09544762
owner_city: Basking Ridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150304
---
Service providers are continually challenged to deliver value and convenience to consumers by providing compelling network services and advancing the underlying technologies. One area of interest has been enhancing the out of box experience of mobile device users and particularly the ability of users to ready a device for use over a communication network. For example a device must be registered and properly provisioned with the communication network in order for the user to enjoy any network features of the device. Typically the device and network configuration process involves the user to call message or visit the provider of the communication network to receive assistance or to have various device configuration steps performed. Alternatively the device may be readied by way of over the air OTA techniques in conjunction with reading of the subscriber identity module SIM card of the device.

Unfortunately these approaches are not always convenient for the user to perform nor are they always secure. For example there is currently no convenient way to ensure a user requesting out of box device and network configuration is the actual owner of the device. Similarly there is no convenient way for the network service provider to ensure the device being configured is the correct device to activate in association with the subscribed user. Furthermore these methods require manual interaction with the network in order to complete the activation which is not feasible for certain devices.

An apparatus method and software for activating a device for use over a communication network is described. In the following description for the purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present invention. It is apparent however to one skilled in the art that the present invention may be practiced without these specific details or with an equivalent arrangement. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the present invention.

Although the various exemplary embodiments are described with respect to the configuring of mobile devices for execution over a wireless communication network i.e. a long term evolution LTE network it is contemplated these embodiments have applicability to any systems wherein a communication device is required to operate in conjunction with a network for executing various of its functions. This may include for example the provisioning management distribution or enablement of content services data connections or channels or the like on behalf of or directly upon a device relative to one or more network resources. For the purpose of illustration herein the process of configuring or readying of a device may broadly refer any of the above described functions e.g. provisioning or activating unless expressly specified.

Typically when a device is first removed from the box the user may perform various device or user level customizations such as adjusting their screen settings adapting their display preferences creating a user profile etc. In order for the device to be network ready however it must also be registered with the service provider network . The registration process may include authenticating and validating the device and or user for access to the network and any services that require registration. In the case of high speed wireless communication services such as those delivered over a long term evolution LTE network the registration procedure involves attaching the device to various nodes of the service provider network . Another step of the configuration process may include provisioning the device which may deliver configuration data and policy settings information to an associated short range transmitter for enabling certain network services e.g. general packet radio service instant messaging mail .

In some cases the out of box configuration process requires the user to call the service provider or visit a local store location so they or a technician can manually perform a series of steps to ready the device . For example the user may be directed by a customer service representative to open a configuration interface of device and enter various activation codes. In other instances the service provider may utilize over the air OTA techniques in conjunction with reading of the subscriber identity module SIM card of the device as a means of automating the configuration procedure. OTA techniques may include transmitting provisioning data to the device via an LTE signal or Bluetooth. Unfortunately none of these approaches ensure that the correct device is attempting to be configured for use over the network or that the correct user is attempting to employ the device.

For example service providers and retailers currently have no means of distinguishing between an actual subscriber and a malicious user that attempts to activate an out of the box device using a stolen SIM card or fictitious subscriber credentials. Similarly there is no convenient way to prevent a malicious user from activating the device by using the legitimate credentials of the user subscribed to the service provider network .

To address this issue system presents a management platform enables configuration of a device for execution over a network e.g. service provider network based on one or more of a the exchange of signal information between the device and the service provider network or a resource thereof b the validated pairing of the device with a transmitter associated with the device c the validation of a device and or pairing identifier associated with the device and or the transmitter or d a combination thereof. The pairing connection may be facilitated by way of any known short range communication protocols such as Bluetooth or ZigBee wherein participating devices within range of one another establish a direct communication channel.

In one embodiment the management platform determines whether a pairing connection is formed between the user device and a short range transmitter referred to herein collectively as transmitters i.e. a beacon device or ultra tag based on a pairing identifier mutually associated with user device and the transmitter . Under this scenario the transmitter may broadcast the pairing identifier to the device according to a low energy Bluetooth protocol or the like. In another embodiment the management platform facilitates the exchange of provisioning data or other data for configuring the transmitter . The transmitter is in turn used to interact with the device via a pairing connection to enable use of the device over a network . As such a proximity or location based pairing validation requirement is introduced into the out of box configuration procedure for data exchange purposes as well for adding an additional layer of security and authentication.

In one embodiment the transmitter may be the only device contained within a box of or associated with a device requiring configuration. The transmitter may have affixed thereto a label such as a barcode image or other optical code not shown for encoding device identifier information for the device it is associated with. Alternatively the label may be placed in or on an instruction manual also contained within the box affixed to or printed thereon a purchase or transaction receipt etc. While not required the above described approach of segregating the transmitter required for facilitating the configuration process from the device to be configured correlates to the proximity and or location based means of security and network access validation. As will be discussed more fully only the transmitter that specifies the correct pairing identifier and device identifier may engage with the device via the management platform for executing the configuration procedure.

In one embodiment the management platform may operate in connection with the service provider the transmitter and the user device to facilitate the configuration process. By way of example the management platform may include one or more interfaces to a profile database that maintains profile information regarding the various subscribers users such as name and account information subscriber identifiers service data etc. In addition the profiles may also specify information regarding the various registered and unregistered devices associated with the network including equipment and or device identifiers network credentials preferred roaming list information etc. Still further the profiles may specify the pairing identifier that is to be assigned to a transmitter associated with the device . Under this scenario the pairing identifier may be a beacon identifier or the like that is broadcast for establishing a short range communication channel with the device . The pairing identifier may be preset to a specific value and format i.e. Prefix Random String during the time of manufacture of the device . As such the unique identity of the device is recorded in association with the unique pairing identifier to be used for initial device configuration provisioning activation purposes.

It is noted that the profile database may be accessed directly by the management platform based on access or security credentials gateway and or network parameters or the like granted directly by the service provider. Alternatively the profile database may be implemented as a cloud based solution for direct access by the management platform . As such the profile database may serve as an external resource of the service provider for supporting profile access. For the purpose of illustration herein profile databases and are referred to herein as databases for encompassing any means of implementation. Also of note as will be discussed further later on herein the management platform may interact with various communication nodes of the service provider network . This may include enabling the sending and or receiving of signals from the various cellular towers base stations gateways etc. comprising the communication network.

In one embodiment the management platform interacts with the device by way of a configuration application referred to herein as application . The application may execute various application programming interface API functions for supporting the configuration process for the end user including generating messages to the device display for indicating the status and or requirements to be fulfilled for completing the configuration. By way of example the application may be used to activate the transmitter contained in the box that is associated with the device . This may correspond to an initial step in the overall configuration process and may include scanning the label information associated with the transmitter .

In one embodiment the label information is subsequently processed by the management platform to determine the device identifier information encoded therein. Under this scenario the management platform cross references the device identifier against the profile database e.g. a cloud based solution in order to retrieve the pairing identifier assigned to the transmitter and or associated device thereof. Once determined the pairing identifier is shared with the application which in turn causes the application to activate a sensor for detecting signals broadcast by nearby devices such as by way of Bluetooth. Alternatively the application may generate a message to a display of the user device for requesting the user to manually activate the sensor .

In one embodiment the application also generates messages for instructing the user to activate power on the transmitter and place it within range of the device . This may include for example instructing the user to press a power on button of the transmitter to initiate low energy broadcasting of the pairing identifier. The application may also utilize the sensors to detect the pairing identifier determine the pairing identifier is a connection match and establish a pairing connection between the device and the transmitter accordingly. Still further the application may further transmit notification messages to the management platform for indicating a pairing connection is established. In one embodiment the pairing connection may be time based such that failure to pair the devices within x seconds prevents establishment of the pairing connection. It is noted that this approach may enable further security theft or anti spoofing applications.

In addition various other messages including additional user instructions error messages or the like may be rendered by the application during and throughout the registration and provisioning process. As will be discussed further later on herein the error messages may correspond to those presented for indicating a failure to fulfill a connection between respective devices and transmitter failure to validate a device or transmitter for us in connection with each other failure to complete the registration or provisioning steps etc. The registration and provisioning procedures may correspond to any known or still developing procedures or data networking standards e.g. 3GPP Registration Procedures . It is noted that the types of messages rendered of executions performed by the application with respect to the device may vary depending on the specific configuration approach facilitated by the management platform .

In one embodiment the management platform conveys location information to the transmitter or the application for enabling commencement of the registration or provisioning of the device for user over the network . By way of example the location information may be assisted global positioning data AGPS which may be used for matching the location of the device the transmitter or a combination thereof with the location of the nearest communication node of the service provider network . The nearest communication node may be identified by referencing the preferred roaming list or other registration information for supporting attachment of the device to the network .

In one embodiment the management platform facilitates the above described configuration process i.e. registration provisioning etc. based on different modes of operation. In a first mode of operation an LTE radio of a device may be turned on in conjunction with the turning on of the transmitter prior to registration while in a second mode of operation the LTE radio is not activated until registration is complete. Also per the first mode of operation the management platform facilitates the transmission of assisted global positioning AGPS data to the transmitter by way of an LTE signal connection formulated between the management platform and the transmitter . In contrast per the second mode of operation the management platform facilitates the transmission of assisted global positioning AGPS data to the application . This AGPS data is then transferred from the application to the transmitter by way of the pairing connection e.g. Bluetooth . For the purpose of illustration emphasis will be placed herein on the second mode of operation. More regarding this mode of operation will be presented with respect to . In respectively state diagrams for indicating the operating state and or status of the transmitter and management platform or profile database throughout the configuration process according to this second mode of operation is presented.

By way of example in state corresponds to an initial opening of the transmitter corresponding to the user device from a box. This may be when the device is first purchased from a retail location received in the mail etc. In this example the transmitter is an UltraTag device for transmitting a beacon identifier corresponding to the pairing identifier. In this state the transmitter is UNACTIVATED and therefore not actively transmitting its pairing identifier i.e. Bluetooth low energy identifier referred to in as the BLE ID . Also the LTE radio of the device to be configured is in an OFF state and the LTE signaling capabilities of the device are in an UNREGISTERED state meaning the device is not yet attached to the network. Similarly the sensor for detecting the beacon identifier referenced in this example as the BLE sensor is also OFF.

Once the user powers on the UltraTag e.g. transmitter the transmitter enters into another state wherein it begins to broadcast its BLE ID. Also corresponding to this state the BLE sensor of the device is ON. Thus the transmitter and device are actively seeking to pair with one another based on the mutually identified pairing identifier as retrieved from the profile database corresponding to transitional execution . Once the pairing occurs per state the application powers on the LTE radio of the device . While the LTE radio is ON this does not yet correspond to completion of the device attachment registration process. The management platform must first verify that the unique device identifier e.g. international mobile equipment identifier IMEI associated with the beacon identifier of the UltraTag is registered within a predetermined number of seconds corresponding to transitional execution .

Once the IMEI is validated as being associated with the beacon identifier the transmitter enters into an ACTIVATED state. Similarly the LTE radio enters into a REGISTERED state thus signifying formal completion of the attachment registration process. Upon completion the management platform may then further interact with the transmitter and device to execute the provisioning procedure of the overall configuration process corresponding to state .

By way of example in state corresponds to an initial execution of the management platform in response to receipt of an execution request per step to activate the transmitter e.g. UltraTag associated with the user device . Per this state the transmitter is UNACTIVATED no BLE pairing and the LTE radio and all signaling activity or registration is inactive. This state is maintained as the management platform waits to validate the IMEI associated with the device and the assigned pairing identifier. If this fails per state a fail over procedure may be invoked for the management platform to activate the transmitter via device identifier means. In the case where the validation occurs per step the corresponding pairing identifier e.g. beacon identifier is transmitted to the application and a pairing result is awaited by the platform . It is noted that the state is identical to that of pending formation of the pairing connection.

In the case where no pairing connection is formed per state a failure message may be generated for indicating this status. The message may also prompt the user to move the device next to or closer to the transmitter as well as ensure that BLE connectivity is engaged for the device and or UltraTag . Once pairing occurs per step corresponding to a BLE Paired status of YES a command is initiated to power ON the LTE radio thus enabling LTE Signal status to be YES. The LTE registration result however remains NO pending a registration completion result for the device and or user per step .

When no result is returned the management platform may generate a message for prompting the user to move in case of a poor signal. The platform keeps monitoring for a signal for a period of time after which a failure message is generated and rendered to the user. In the case where a registration result is rendered per step the transmitter pairing and LTE statuses are all active corresponding to completion of device activation per step . The provisioning and user self configuration settings procedure may be commenced.

It is noted that the management platform may support the generation of various messages throughout the configuration process including those for facilitating the retrieval of registration information to be used for completing the network registration process from the profile database as well as for indicating a status of a provisioning procedure of the device with respect to the network . Hence the management platform may facilitate end user and service provider enterprise level executions. Still further use of the transmitter as an intermediary signaling device requires an additional layer of data transference and validation for to be achieved in order for proper and complete device registration and provisioning to be enabled with respect to the communication network .

It is noted that user devices may be any type of mobile terminal fixed terminal or portable terminal including a mobile handset station unit device multimedia computer multimedia tablet Internet node communicator desktop computer laptop computer Personal Digital Assistants PDAs smartphone or any combination thereof. It is also contemplated that the devices can support any type of interface for supporting the presentment or exchanging of data. In addition user devices may facilitate various input means for receiving and generating information including touch screen capability keyboard and keypad data entry voice based input mechanisms and the like. For example during an initial downloading of the application the user may employ a touch screen interface of the device in order to provider login credentials for authenticating the application for use with the management platform . Any known and future implementations of user devices are applicable.

In certain embodiments user devices the management platform and other elements of system may be configured to communicate via a service provider network . According to certain embodiments one or more networks such as data network telephony network and or wireless network can interact with the service provider network . Networks may be any suitable wireline and or wireless network and be managed by one or more service providers. For example telephony network may include a circuit switched network such as the public switched telephone network PSTN an integrated services digital network ISDN a private branch exchange PBX or other like network.

Networks may employ various technologies for enabling wireless communication including for example code division multiple access CDMA long term evolution LTE enhanced data rates for global evolution EDGE general packet radio service GPRS mobile ad hoc network MANET global system for mobile communications GSM Internet protocol multimedia subsystem IMS universal mobile telecommunications system UMTS etc. as well as any other suitable wireless medium e.g. microwave access WiMAX wireless fidelity WiFi satellite and the like. Meanwhile data network may be any local area network LAN metropolitan area network MAN wide area network WAN the Internet or any other suitable packet switched network such as a commercially owned proprietary packet switched network such as a proprietary cable or fiber optic network.

Still further the communication provider network may embody circuit switched and or packet switched networks that include facilities to provide for transport of circuit switched and or packet based communications. It is further contemplated that networks may include components and facilities to provide for signaling and or bearer communications between the various components or facilities of system . In this manner the communication network may embody or include portions of a signaling system 7 SS7 network Internet protocol multimedia subsystem IMS or other suitable infrastructure to support control and signaling functions.

It is noted though not shown in the figure that in certain embodiments user devices may be configured to establish peer to peer communication sessions with each other using a variety of technologies near field communication NFC Bluetooth ZigBee infrared etc. Also connectivity can be provided via a wireless local area network LAN . By way of example a group of user devices may be configured to a common LAN so that each device can be uniquely identified via any suitable network addressing scheme. For example the LAN may utilize the dynamic host configuration protocol DHCP to dynamically assign private DHCP internet protocol IP addresses to each user device i.e. IP addresses that are accessible to devices connected to the service provider network as facilitated via a router.

In one embodiment the authentication module authenticates a device a user or a transmitter for use of the management platform . By way of example the authentication module receives a request to download the application and facilitates processing of any user specified credentials entered. This may include for example authenticating a supplied user name customer account number mobile device number network IP address or other credential associated with the user and or their subscription with the service provider by comparing the entered data against logged profile . Automatic login procedures may also be facilitated by automatically associating an IP address a carrier detection signal of a user device mobile directory number MDN subscriber identity module SIM e.g. of a SIM card radio frequency identifier RFID tag or other identifier against the registration data.

Still further the authentication module may also receive requests to activate a transmitter for registering a device. Upon receipt of the label information pertaining to the transmitter the authentication module interacts with the decoding module to determine the encoded device identifier. Once determined the authentication module identifies and retrieves the pairing identifier corresponding to the device identifier if it exists. In the case it is found the authentication module passes the pairing identifier to the communication interface which in turn conveys the corresponding pairing identifier to the application of the device . When it is not found a failure message may be generated by the user interface module for indicating the failure condition and one or more instructions for the user and subsequently transferred by the communication interface . It is noted that the decoding module may employ various techniques for decoding and or deciphering various types of labels including optical codes an images tags or a combination thereof.

In one embodiment the validation module determines and or validates various conditions messages and procedures are performed appropriately throughout the activation process. In addition the validation module may initiate the rendering of an error or fulfillment message by the user interface module in response to a determination. For example the validation module determines receipt of a message from the service provider i.e. via the cloud service of the provider for indicating submission of the pairing identifier e.g. beacon identifier . As another example the validation module may determine a valid association between the device identifier and the pairing identifier. Still further the validation module may persistently monitor the operating state of the transmitter and device such as per for determining the state of completion of the registration or provisioning process. In the case where a particular operating state is validated the validation module may invoke the activation module to enable any known or standard registration or provisioning procedures.

To the extent the aforementioned embodiments collect store or employ personal information provided by individuals it should be understood that such information shall be used in accordance with all applicable laws concerning protection of personal information. Additionally the collection storage and use of such information may be subject to consent of the individual to such activity for example through well known opt in or opt out processes as may be appropriate for the situation and type of information. Storage and use of personal information may be in an appropriately secure manner reflective of the type of information for example through various encryption and anonymization techniques for particularly sensitive information.

The above presented modules and components of the management platform can be implemented in hardware firmware software or a combination thereof. Though depicted as a separate entity in it is contemplated that the management platform may be implemented for direct operation by respective devices . As such the management platform may generate direct signal inputs by way of the operating system of the device for interacting with the application and accessing profiles from databases and . In another embodiment one or more of the modules may be implemented for operation by respective user devices as a platform e.g. a hosted solution as a distributed system or combination thereof.

In step of process the management platform renders a message to a display of a device for requesting a user scan label information associated with a transmitter assigned to the device. This corresponds to an initiation state of activation of an out of the box device requiring configuration e.g. registration provisioning etc. relative to a communication network of a service provider. Per step the platform processes label information associated with a device unregistered for use by a user over a communication network of a service provider to determine a pairing identifier assigned by the service provider to a transmitter associated with the device. The transmitter may be a beacon device an UltraTag or any other short range wireless signal broadcasting device. In another step the platform determines a pairing connection is established between the device and the transmitter based on the pairing identifier. As noted previously the pairing identifier may be assigned by the service provider relative to a specific device and transmitter to be used for enabling the configuration procedure.

In another step the platform determines the transmission of location information associated with the device the transmitter or a combination thereof over the pairing connection over a high speed communication channel established with the service provider or a combination thereof. By way of example the location information may be assisted global positioning system AGPS data as determined by the management platform for identifying a relative location of the user the transmitter or the device. Per step the platform initiates a registration procedure of the device with the communication network based on the location information registration information associated with the device the transmitter the user or a combination thereof or a combination thereof. As noted previously the registration information may include an equipment identifier a subscriber identifier a resource identifier security credentials a directory number a preferred roaming list programming code data or a combination thereof and the pairing connection is established based on the validation.

In step the management platform determines a status of the registration procedure. For example this may include determining whether the registration procedure or a step thereof was fulfilled and or validated. In another step the platform renders a message to a display of the device for a specifying the status b an instruction for the user regarding with the device the transmitter or a combination thereof for changing the status or c a combination thereof. It is noted that fulfillment of the registration procedure results in activation of the device for use over the communication network.

In step the management platform initiates a provisioning procedure of the device the transmitter or a combination thereof with the communication network in response to a fulfillment of the registration procedure based on the registration information associated with the device the transmitter the user or a combination thereof. The provisioning procedure may include a updating the pairing identifier the location information or a combination thereof b activating a service a function an application a resource or a combination thereof of the device the transmitter the communication network or a combination thereof for use by the user or c a combination thereof.

In step or process the management platform determines the activation of a radio of the device based on the pairing connection the registration information or a combination thereof. For example the radio may correspond to an LTE radio for establishing a LTE connection with the communication network. Also the pairing connection may be based on a short range wireless protocol such as Bluetooth. Thus the platform enables signal and data exchange according to either or both a high speed signal protocol or a low energy short range wireless protocol.

In step the platform matches the location of the device the transmitter or a combination thereof with the location of a communication node of the communication network based on the location information the activation of the radio or a combination thereof. This may include as well evaluating of the location information against a preferred roaming list associated with the device the network or a combination thereof. Per step the platform establishes the high speed communication channel based on the match wherein the high speed communication channel is established 1 according to a high speed broadband communication protocol 2 over a high speed frequency band or 3 a combination thereof.

In step of process the management platform validates an association between the pairing identifier and the device the user or a combination thereof based on the registration information. In another step the platform determines the validation occurs within a predetermined time period. As noted previously the time period may be established by the service provider for enabling an enhanced level of authentication.

In step of process the management platform determines an invalid association an exceeding of the time period or a combination thereof. Per step the platform renders a message to a display of the device for a specifying the invalid association the exceeding of the time period or a combination thereof b an instruction for the user regarding with the device the transmitter or a combination thereof for changing the association or c a combination thereof.

In the user opens the box associated with the phone corresponding to event A. In this case the box only contains a printed set of activation instructions not shown and an UltraTag transmitter . Also the instruction manual includes label information in the form of a quick response QR code. It is noted that the smartphone need not be contained within the box for security reasons. By segregating the smartphone from the box and or transmitter the activation process may be executed at the discretion of the user and at a place of the user s choosing.

Following the instructions the user installs the configuration application to their smartphone corresponding to event B. The installation may be initiated by scanning the QR code associated with the UltraTag device resulting in automated retrieval and downloading of the application to the device . Alternatively the user may be prompted to retrieve the application from an online content or application provider. Still further in certain instances the application may already be preloaded to the smartphone .

Once installed the user starts the application and enters their login and or account signup credentials. This may correspond to a secure sign on procedure if the user is an existing subscriber or a first time activation or data entry for a new subscriber. Certain information such as the current mobile number email address or other information may be required to be entered.

Per event C the user then invokes an option to Activate a New UltraTag per the application and is prompted to scan the QR code to kick off the activation process. Upon scanning the code it is sent to the management platform e.g. a cloud based resource associated with the service provider for processing. The management platform processed the code to determine a corresponding BeaconID e.g. pairing identifier associated with the transmitter and returns this value to the application . The application then prompts the user to perform various actions in response to receiving a valid associated BeaconID including 

It is noted that steps 2 and 3 above correspond to events D and E. In the case of event D the user may press a one touch one time power button of the UltraTag device to power it on. Under this scenario a Bluetooth low energy function may also be powered on at the user device in the case where pairing is supported. In the case of event E the application causes the sensor of the device to identify the BeaconID and establish a pairing connection with the UltraTag only the one transmitting the correct BeaconID . It is noted by default that the BeaconID may be preset to a Prefix RandomString during manufacturing time. Also Bluetooth may be preset to transmit in a low power mode 20 cm .

Per event F AGPS data is downloaded to the application from the management platform . Next the data is transmitted from the application to the UltraTag by way of the established Bluetooth pairing connection. For the purpose of illustration events A F are depicted in the ladder diagram of corresponding to the interactive steps labeled collectively as Activation AGPS. Upon transferring the location information the management platform then facilitates any known device registration procedures corresponding to step . This may include carrying out procedures for attaching the device to a bearer node and eventually a dedicated node of the communication network for enabling long term evolution communication of the device .

Once the device is registered per steps additional steps for carrying out the provisioning process are performed per the various steps labeled collectively as Provision User Setting. This may include for example prompting the retrieval of updated location information for the device and or transmitter as well as retrieval of a new BeaconID for transmitter pairing. Other steps may include the transmitting of short data service SDS messages from the UltraTag to the platform for indicating the mobile and subscriber identifier values associated with the user along with the sending of pertinent registration information to the platform from the application at the device . Still further updated BeaconID and location information is then sent to the transmitter per step for completing the provisioning procedure. If provisioned properly a completion message is also sent to the application of the device .

It is noted that collective steps or phases and may be carried out with little delay. Also as an alternative step of the Activation AGPS phase the smartphone can read the device identifier from the UltraTag directly and compare the barcode with the device identifier to activate the user. Also per the Provision and User Setting phase alternatively the configuration provisioning data packets can be carried over the Bluetooth connection instead of via the LTE connection.

It is noted that the above described approach forces a user to ensure they are associating the correct device with the correct activation transmitter. Failure to properly associate the devices and formulate a pairing connection within the proper time frame results in inability to access the communication network and provision the services of the network. This is particularly useful for thwarting instances of theft of a new device as the registration and provisioning processes are tied to various types of authentication user device and network based and validation location proximity and time based . Per the interaction between the device and the transmitter and the requirements thereof a communication service provider is better able to manage the experience of the user as they configure their device for use over the communication network.

The processes described herein for configuring a device for use over a communication network may be implemented via software hardware e.g. general processor Digital Signal Processing DSP chip an Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC Field Programmable Gate Arrays FPGAs etc. firmware or a combination thereof. Such exemplary hardware for performing the described functions is detailed below.

The computer system may be coupled via the bus to a display such as a cathode ray tube CRT liquid crystal display active matrix display or plasma display for displaying information to a computer user. An input device such as a keyboard including alphanumeric and other keys is coupled to the bus for communicating information and command selections to the processor . Another type of user input device is a cursor control such as a mouse a trackball or cursor direction keys for communicating direction information and command selections to the processor and for adjusting cursor movement on the display .

According to an embodiment of the invention the processes described herein are performed by the computer system in response to the processor executing an arrangement of instructions contained in main memory . Such instructions can be read into main memory from another computer readable medium such as the storage device . Execution of the arrangement of instructions contained in main memory causes the processor to perform the process steps described herein. One or more processors in a multiprocessing arrangement may also be employed to execute the instructions contained in main memory . In alternative embodiments hard wired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions to implement the embodiment of the invention. Thus embodiments of the invention are not limited to any specific combination of hardware circuitry and software.

The computer system also includes a communication interface coupled to bus . The communication interface provides a two way data communication coupling to a network link connected to a local network . For example the communication interface may be a digital subscriber line DSL card or modem an integrated services digital network ISDN card a cable modem a telephone modem or any other communication interface to provide a data communication connection to a corresponding type of communication line. As another example communication interface may be a local area network LAN card e.g. for Ethernet or an Asynchronous Transfer Model ATM network to provide a data communication connection to a compatible LAN. Wireless links can also be implemented. In any such implementation communication interface sends and receives electrical electromagnetic or optical signals that carry digital data streams representing various types of information. Further the communication interface can include peripheral interface devices such as a Universal Serial Bus USB interface a PCMCIA Personal Computer Memory Card International Association interface etc. Although a single communication interface is depicted in multiple communication interfaces can also be employed.

The network link typically provides data communication through one or more networks to other data devices. For example the network link may provide a connection through local network to a host computer which has connectivity to a network e.g. a wide area network WAN or the global packet data communication network now commonly referred to as the Internet or to data equipment operated by a service provider. The local network and the network both use electrical electromagnetic or optical signals to convey information and instructions. The signals through the various networks and the signals on the network link and through the communication interface which communicate digital data with the computer system are exemplary forms of carrier waves bearing the information and instructions.

The computer system can send messages and receive data including program code through the network s the network link and the communication interface . In the Internet example a server not shown might transmit requested code belonging to an application program for implementing an embodiment of the invention through the network the local network and the communication interface . The processor may execute the transmitted code while being received and or store the code in the storage device or other non volatile storage for later execution. In this manner the computer system may obtain application code in the form of a carrier wave.

The term computer readable medium as used herein refers to any medium that participates in providing instructions to the processor for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to computer readable storage medium or non transitory i.e. non volatile media and volatile media and transmission media. Non volatile media include for example optical or magnetic disks such as the storage device . Volatile media include dynamic memory such as main memory . Transmission media include coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics including the wires that comprise the bus . Transmission media can also take the form of acoustic optical or electromagnetic waves such as those generated during radio frequency RF and infrared IR data communications. Common forms of computer readable media include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium a CD ROM CDRW DVD any other optical medium punch cards paper tape optical mark sheets any other physical medium with patterns of holes or other optically recognizable indicia a RAM a PROM and EPROM a FLASH EPROM any other memory chip or cartridge a carrier wave or any other medium from which a computer can read.

Various forms of computer readable media may be involved in providing instructions to a processor for execution. For example the instructions for carrying out at least part of the embodiments of the invention may initially be borne on a magnetic disk of a remote computer. In such a scenario the remote computer loads the instructions into main memory and sends the instructions over a telephone line using a modem. A modem of a local computer system receives the data on the telephone line and uses an infrared transmitter to convert the data to an infrared signal and transmit the infrared signal to a portable computing device such as a personal digital assistant PDA or a laptop. An infrared detector on the portable computing device receives the information and instructions borne by the infrared signal and places the data on a bus. The bus conveys the data to main memory from which a processor retrieves and executes the instructions. The instructions received by main memory can optionally be stored on storage device either before or after execution by processor.

In one embodiment the chip set or chip includes a communication mechanism such as a bus for passing information among the components of the chip set . A processor has connectivity to the bus to execute instructions and process information stored in for example a memory . The processor may include one or more processing cores with each core configured to perform independently. A multi core processor enables multiprocessing within a single physical package. Examples of a multi core processor include two four eight or greater numbers of processing cores. Alternatively or in addition the processor may include one or more microprocessors configured in tandem via the bus to enable independent execution of instructions pipelining and multithreading. The processor may also be accompanied with one or more specialized components to perform certain processing functions and tasks such as one or more digital signal processors DSP or one or more application specific integrated circuits ASIC . A DSP typically is configured to process real world signals e.g. sound in real time independently of the processor . Similarly an ASIC can be configured to performed specialized functions not easily performed by a more general purpose processor. Other specialized components to aid in performing the inventive functions described herein may include one or more field programmable gate arrays FPGA not shown one or more controllers not shown or one or more other special purpose computer chips.

In one embodiment the chip set or chip includes merely one or more processors and some software and or firmware supporting and or relating to and or for the one or more processors.

The processor and accompanying components have connectivity to the memory via the bus . The memory includes both dynamic memory e.g. RAM magnetic disk writable optical disk etc. and static memory e.g. ROM CD ROM etc. for storing executable instructions that when executed perform the inventive steps described herein to ready a device for use over a communication network. The memory also stores the data associated with or generated by the execution of the inventive steps.

While certain exemplary embodiments and implementations have been described herein other embodiments and modifications will be apparent from this description. Accordingly the invention is not limited to such embodiments but rather to the broader scope of the presented claims and various obvious modifications and equivalent arrangements.

