---

title: Proxy bypass login for applications on mobile devices
abstract: In one embodiment, an intermediate server receives a request with a secure ID to authorize a software application, transmits the secure ID to a system, receives an access token from the system indicating that the software application has been authorized, evaluates the access token for validity, and transmits a response to the mobile device indicating the software application is authorized.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09578011&OS=09578011&RS=09578011
owner: Facebook, Inc.
number: 09578011
owner_city: Menlo Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150831
---
This application is a continuation under 35 U.S.C. 120 of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 425 189 filed 20 Mar. 2012 which is incorporated herein by reference.

A system e.g. a social networking website of a social networking system enables its users to interact with it and with each other through the system. The system may create and store a record often referred to as a user profile in connection with the user. The user profile may include a user s demographic information communication channel information and personal interests. The system may also create and store a record of a user s relationship with other users in the system e.g. social graph as well as provide services e.g. wall posts photo sharing event organization messaging games or advertisements to facilitate social interaction between users in the system. The system may transmit contents and messages related to its services to a user s client device over a network. The system may generate a personalized set of content objects to display to the user such as a newsfeed of aggregated stories of the user s first degree connections. A user may also install software applications that access their user profile and other data from the system.

In particular embodiments a social networking system such as a social networking website e.g. FACEBOOK.COM may enable its users to interact with it and with each other through the system. In order to access the social networking system a user may have to register sign up or create an account on the social networking system. Thereafter the user may have to authenticate their identity to subsequently access the social networking system. In particular embodiments the social networking system may use a unique identifier ID to authenticate a user. The unique ID may be generated by the social networking system or created by the user. As an example and not by way of limitation the unique ID may comprise a login ID a password other authentication information or any combination thereof. As used herein a user may be an individual e.g. a human user an entity e.g. an enterprise business or third party application or a group e.g. of individuals or entities . Although this disclosure describes authenticating users in a particular manner this disclosure contemplates authenticating users in any suitable manner.

In particular embodiments a user of a social networking system may have a user profile associated with the user. The user profile may be stored by the social networking system. The user profile may include information provided by the user or information gathered by various systems such as for example the social networking system or a third party website relating to the user or the user s activities and action. As an example and not by way of limitation the user may provide his name profile picture contact information birth date gender marital status family status employment education background preferences interests and other demographical information to be included in his user profile. The user may identify or bookmark websites or web pages he visits frequently and these websites or web pages may be included in the user s profile. The user may identify other users of the social networking system that the user considers to be his friends. A list of the user s friends or first degree contacts may be included in the user s profile. Although this disclosure describes particular user profiles this disclosure contemplates any suitable user profiles.

In particular embodiments social networking system may maintain a social graph. A user of the social networking system may be represented as a node in the social graph. A relationship between two users such as for example a friendship a familial relationship etc. may be represented as an edge connected the nodes representing the two users. The degree of separation between any two nodes is defined as the minimum number of hops required to traverse the social graph from one node to the other. In particular embodiments the degree of separation between two users may be considered a measure of relatedness between the two users represented by the nodes in the graph. Although this disclosure describes particular types of social graphs this disclosure contemplates any suitable types of social graphs.

In particular embodiments a social networking system may support a variety of applications such as for example a news feed media sharing online calendars event management online communications e.g. email instant messaging text voice or video chat wall posts etc. or other suitable applications. As an example and not by way of limitation the social networking system may allow a user to post photographs and other multimedia files to his user profile e.g. in a wall post or in a photo album that may be accessible to other users of the social networking system. Although this disclosure describes a social networking system with particular types of application this disclosure contemplates social networking systems with any suitable types of applications.

In particular embodiments users of a social networking system may access other websites or third party websites e.g. http www.espn.com http www.youtube.com . As an example and not by way of limitation a user may use a client device to connect to and communicate with a third party website through the network cloud . The third party website may comprise a web server operatively connected to one or more data stores storing user data and webpage information. User data may include for example user name user profile picture and user profile information e.g. location affiliation interest . Webpage information may include for example page layout information scripts webpage content such as text e.g. ASCII or HTML media data e.g. graphics photos video clips and executable code objects e.g. a game executable within a browser window or frame . In particular embodiments a user may use a web browser or special purpose client application hosted on the client device to access a third party website by sending an HTTP request to a web server causing the web server to access the one or more data stores and construct one or more webpages or frames displayed in the web browser or the special purpose client application.

A social networking system may communicate with and access a third party website and vice versa through a network cloud . As an example and not by way of limitation a webpage constructed by third party website for a user of a social networking system may contain information from the social networking system such as a frame displaying profile pictures of the user s first degree friends who are currently active on third party website . As an example and not by way of limitation a user s user profile page of a social networking system may contain an embedded video clip that the user posted on third party website . In particular embodiments a webpage constructed by a first website may include one or more inline references that cause the client device to access and display content from a second website by incorporating in the webpage s HTML document Uniform Resource Locations URLs and or script code e.g. JavaScript PHP AJAX that causes a client application hosted on the client device to access the second website to dynamically provide content specified by the script code e.g. profile pictures . In particular embodiments a browser cookie installed by a second website on client device may be used to facilitate accessing the second website. As an example and not by way of limitation requests transmitted to the social networking system for a particular user may include a browser cookie or other token to enable authentication and access to the social networking system for the particular user such as for example to access and display profile pictures of the particular user s first degree friends without the particular user having to manually enter user identifier ID and password information of the social networking system.

In particular embodiments a mobile client device may utilize one or more software applications . The software application may be a native software application resident in the application memory of the mobile client device or it may be a software application stored remotely e.g. on a third party server . The software application may be any suitable computer program for performing any suitable activity. As an example and not by way of limitation the software application may be an application that facilitates accessing the social networking system e.g. FACEBOOK FOR IOS or FACEBOOK FOR ANDROID . As another example and not by way of limitation the software application may be an application that accesses data on the social networking system for other uses e.g. SPOTIFY ZYNGA POKER etc. . In particular embodiments a social networking system may receive data from or transmit data to a software application through a network cloud . A browser cookie installed on the mobile client device e.g. by the system front end may be used to facilitate accessing the social networking system. As an example and not by way of limitation requests transmitted to the social networking system from a user of a mobile client device may include a browser cookie or other token to enable authentication and access to the social networking system for the particular user such as for example to access and display profile pictures of the particular user s first degree friends without the particular user having to manually enter a login ID and password information of the social networking system. In particular embodiments a software application may receive data from or transmit data to the social networking system through a network cloud . A mobile client device may access a software application by launching the software application from the program memory of the mobile client device . The software application may then access the system front end for example by using an application programming interface API protocol. In particular embodiments a software application may receive data from or transmit data to the social networking system via an intermediate server . This may be advantageous for example when mobile client device has limited capabilities or processing power. The intermediate server may communicate with the software application and the social networking system either directly or through a network cloud . The mobile client device may access a software application by launching the software application from the program memory of the mobile client device . The software application may then access the intermediate server for example by using an application programming interface API protocol. The intermediate server may then access the system front end as a proxy for the mobile client device . Although this disclosure describes utilizing particular software applications in a particular manner this disclosure contemplates utilizing any suitable software applications in any suitable manner.

In particular embodiments a user of a social networking system may download a software application from a third party website to a mobile client device . As an example and not by way of limitation the user may access a third party online application store such as for example the IPHONE APP STORE ANDROID MARKET or another suitable third party website from a mobile client device . The user may then download the software application from the third party website and install the software application on the mobile client device . When the software application is executed the software application may then access social networking data on the social networking system either directly or via intermediate server . Social networking data may include for example social graph information user profiles or other suitable data stored on the social networking system. In order to access the social networking system with the software application the social networking system may require the user to authenticate his identity such as for example by providing his unique ID e.g. login ID and password . After the social networking system has authenticated the user s identity the software application may be authorized to access the social networking system. Although this disclosure describes downloading particular software applications in a particular manner this disclosure contemplates downloading any suitable software applications in any suitable manner. Moreover although this disclosure describes authorizing software applications in a particular manner this disclosure contemplates authorizing software applications in any suitable manner.

In particular embodiments a user of a social networking system may download a software application from the social networking system to a mobile client device . As an example and not by way of limitation the user may access an application store associated with the social networking system such as for example http www.facebook.com apps or another suitable website associated with the social networking system from a mobile client device . In order to access the application store associated with the social networking system the social networking system may require the user to authenticate his identity such as for example by providing his unique ID e.g. login ID and password . After the social networking system has authenticated the user s identity the user may then access the application store associated with the social networking system to download a software application from the application store to the mobile client device . When transmitting the software application the social networking system may also transmit a secure identifier ID that may be used to indicate that the user of that mobile client device has been authenticated such that the user may not have to authenticate when the user later executes the software application. When the software application is executed the software application may access social networking data on the social networking system either directly or via intermediate server . In order to access the social networking system with the software application the social networking system may require the user to authenticate his identity such as for example by providing his unique ID e.g. login ID and password . In particular embodiments to access the social networking system with the software application the mobile client device may authenticate the user by transmitting the secure ID to the social networking system. The social networking system may then evaluate the secure ID to determine if it is valid and if it is valid may transmit an access token to the mobile client device where the access token authorizes the software application to access the social networking system without the user having to provide his unique ID thus bypassing login process. In particular embodiments to access the social networking system with the software application the mobile client device may authenticate the user by transmitting the secure ID to the intermediate server . The intermediate server may then pass on the secure ID to the social network system. The social networking system may then evaluate the secure ID to determine if it is valid and if it is valid may transmit an access token to the intermediate server where the access token authorizes the intermediate server to access the social networking system without the user having to provide his unique ID thus bypassing login process. The intermediate server may then access social networking data from the social networking system process the social networking data and transmit the processed data to the software application . Although this disclosure describes downloading particular software applications in a particular manner this disclosure contemplates downloading any suitable software applications in any suitable manner. Moreover although this disclosure describes authorizing software applications in a particular manner this disclosure contemplates authorizing software applications in any suitable manner.

In particular embodiments a social networking system may authenticate a user of a mobile client device . The user may be associated with the social networking system. As an example and not by way of limitation a login ID and a password to authenticate a user. As another example and not by way of limitation the social networking system may access a browser cookie or other token installed by the social networking system on the mobile client device that indicates that the user is authenticated. Although this disclosure describes authenticating a user in a particular manner this disclosure contemplates authenticating a user in any suitable manner.

In particular embodiments a social networking system may receive a request from a mobile client device to install a software application on the mobile client device . After accessing an application store associated with the social networking system the user may select one or more software applications that they wish to install to a mobile client device . This selection may be transmitted as a request to the social networking system. As an example and not by way of limitation a user may access http www.facebook.com apps using a mobile client device where the user may view a webpage listing one or more software applications that are available for installation. The user may then select a software application to install for example by clicking on an icon associated with the software application . This may take the user to a new webpage where the software application may be installed or it may immediately install the software application to the mobile client device . In particular embodiments the social networking system or the intermediate server if appropriate may generate a session such as for example an API session in response to the first request. This session may be stored and may be used to record the request and any data transmitted in response to the request. Although this disclosure describes receiving particular requests from a mobile client device this disclosure contemplates receiving any suitable requests from a mobile client device .

In particular embodiments a social networking system may transmit data to a mobile client device comprising a software application and a first installation identifier ID . The mobile client device may store the software application and the first secure ID for example in a data store on the mobile client device . The first secure ID may be used to indicate that the user of the mobile client device has already been authenticated by the social networking system for example when a software application on the mobile client device attempts to access the social networking system. The first secure ID may be generated in any suitable manner such as for example by using a random number generator a hash function a private public key system another suitable manner or any combination thereof. In particular embodiments the transmitted software application may be installation files for a particular software application. The installation files may be executed to install the particular software application or to download further data for installing the particular software application on the mobile client device . In particular embodiments the transmitted software application may be files for accessing a computer program via the network cloud . That is the software application may only be a front end application for accessing a particular computer program. In particular embodiments the transmitted software application may be data that allows the mobile client device to access a web based computer program such as for example via a suitable browser client. In particular embodiments the first secure ID may include a timestamp. As an example and not by way of limitation the timestamp on the first secure ID may be based on the time when the social networking received a request from the mobile client device to install the software application . As another example and not by way of limitation the timestamp on the first secure ID may be based on the time when first secure ID was transmitted to the mobile client device . In particular embodiments the first secure ID may be encrypted. In particular embodiments the first secure ID may be stored in a session such as for example an API session where it can be accessed later by the social networking system or the intermediate server . Although this disclosure describes transmitting particular data to a mobile client device this disclosure contemplates transmitting any suitable data to a mobile client device . Moreover although this disclosure describes transmitting particular software applications this disclosure contemplates transmitting any suitable software applications.

In particular embodiments a social networking system may receive a request from a mobile client device to authorize a software application . The request may comprise a second secure ID which may be based on the first secure ID that was previously transmitted with the software application to the mobile device. The second secure ID may comprise information indicating that the user of the mobile client device has been authenticated. As an example and not by way of limitation when the user of the mobile client device attempts to use the software application the software application may attempt to access the social networking system. In order to authorize the software application to access the social networking system the social networking system may require the user to authenticate his identity. The mobile client device may attempt to authenticate the user of the mobile client device by transmitting the second secure ID which may indicate that the user of the mobile client device has already been authenticated by the social networking system. In particular embodiments the second secure ID may be encrypted. In particular embodiments the mobile client device may transmit the request to authorize the software application and the second secure ID to an intermediate server . The intermediate server may then transmit the request and the second secure ID to the social networking system. The intermediate server is effectively passing on the second secure ID on behalf of the mobile client device facilitating authentication of the user of the mobile client device as described previously. Although this disclosure describes receiving particular requests from a mobile client device this disclosure contemplates receiving any suitable requests from a mobile client device .

In particular embodiments a social networking system may evaluate a second secure ID for validity. The second secure ID may be based on a first secure ID that was transmitted to the mobile client device with the software application when the software application was installed on the mobile client device . This evaluation may be done in response to receiving a request from the mobile client device or from the mobile client device via an intermediate server to authorize a software application wherein the second secure ID was received with the request. In particular embodiments the social networking system may evaluate the second secure ID for validity by determining whether the second secure ID is based on the first secure ID. As an example and not by way of limitation the mobile client device may have received a first secure ID that was encrypted for example by using asymmetric key cryptography . The mobile client device may have decrypted the first secure ID and stored the decrypted data on a data store on the mobile client device . When the user attempts to authorize the software application the mobile client device may access the secure ID from the data store and encrypt it to generate a second secure ID which may be transmitted to the social networking system. Thus the second secure ID is based on the first secure ID in this case however the first and second secure IDs are not necessarily identical. The social networking system may then receive the second secure ID decrypt it and evaluate it for validity by confirming that it is based on the first secure ID. In particular embodiments the social networking system may evaluate the second secure ID for validity by determining whether the second secure ID substantially matches the first secure ID. As an example and not by way of limitation the mobile client device may have stored the first secure ID in a data store on the mobile client device . When the user attempts to authorize the software application the mobile client device may access the stored first secure ID and transmit the stored first secure ID as the second secure ID. Thus the first and second secure IDs should be substantially identical in this case. The social networking system may then evaluate the second secure ID received from the mobile client device to confirm that it is substantially identical to the first secure ID that was previously transmitted when the software application was installed on the mobile client device . In particular embodiments the social networking system may access the first secure ID from a stored session such as for example an API session and then evaluate the second secure ID for validity by determining whether the second secure ID is based on the first secure ID from the stored session. In particular embodiments the social networking system may evaluate the second secure ID for validity by determining whether the second secure ID has expired. As an example and not by way of limitation the social networking system may determine whether a timestamp included with the second secure ID is older than a threshold period of time. If the timestamp is older than the threshold period of time then the social networking system may indicate that the second secure ID is not valid. However if the timestamp is not older than the threshold period of time then the social networking system may indicate that the second secure ID is valid. The threshold period of time may be any suitable period of time such as for example 1 second 1 minute 1 hour 24 hours or another suitable period of time. Although this disclosure describes evaluating particular secure IDs for validity in a particular manner this disclosure contemplates evaluating any suitable secure IDs for validity in any suitable manner.

In particular embodiments a social networking system may transmit a response to a mobile client device in accordance with the evaluation of the validity of the second secure ID. If the second secure ID is evaluated as invalid then the social networking system may transmit a response comprising a request to the mobile client device to authenticate the user of the mobile client device . As an example and not by way of limitation if the second secure ID is evaluated as invalid then the social networking system may require the user to provide his unique ID e.g. login ID and password to authenticate the user. However if the second secure ID is evaluated as valid then the social networking system may transmit a response comprising data authorizing the software application . As an example and not by way of limitation if the second secure ID is evaluated as valid then the social networking system may transmit social networking data to the mobile client device for use by the software application . In particular embodiments the social networking system may transmit an access token that indicated that the software application is authorized to access the social networking system. As an example and not by way of limitation if the second secure ID is evaluated as valid then the social networking system may transmit an access token to the mobile client device allowing the software application to access social networking data on the social networking system. As another example and not by way of limitation if the second secure ID is evaluated as valid then the social networking system may transmit an access token to the intermediate server allowing the intermediate server to access social networking data on the social networking system which the intermediate server may then process and transmit to the mobile client device . In particular embodiments the intermediate server may evaluate the access token for validity. As an example and not by way of limitation the intermediate server may evaluate the access token for validity by determining whether the social networking system evaluated the secure ID as valid. If the social networking system has evaluated the secure ID as valid then the intermediate server may indicate that the access token is valid. As another example and not by way of limitation the intermediate server may evaluate the access token for validity by accessing the secure ID from a stored session such as for example an API session and then evaluating the access token for validity by determine whether the access token and the secure ID both correspond to the same user of the social networking system. In particular embodiments the intermediate server may store the access token in association with information about the mobile client device . As an example and not by way of limitation the access token may be stored in association with the secure ID associated with the mobile client device or social networking data associated with the user of the mobile client device . Although this disclosure describes transmitting particular responses to a mobile client device in accordance with particular evaluations this disclosure contemplates transmitting any suitable responses to a mobile client device in accordance with any suitable evaluations.

In particular embodiments an intermediate server may receive a request from a mobile client device for social networking data from the social networking system. The software application on mobile client device may only be authorized to access the social networking system via intermediate server . This may be the case where the mobile client device has limited capabilities or processing power. The intermediate server may then access any requested social networking data on the social networking system and process and transmit the data as appropriate. As an example and not by way of limitation a user of a mobile client device may attempt to access a user profile from the social networking system using a software application . The software application may then transmit via the mobile client device a request for the user profile to the intermediate server . Although this disclosure describes receiving particular request for particular data this disclosure contemplates receiving any suitable requests for any suitable data.

In particular embodiments an intermediate server may access social networking data on a social networking system. If the intermediate server has received an access token from the social networking system the intermediate server may then be authorized to access social networking data on the social networking system as a proxy for the software application . When the intermediate server accesses the social networking system it may first transmit the access token associated with the requesting mobile client device to the social networking system. The social networking system can then verify that the intermediate server is authorized to access the social networking system on behalf of a particular mobile client device . As an example and not by way of limitation if the intermediate server received a request for a user profile from a mobile client device the intermediate server may then transmit a request to the social networking system for the user profile and the request may comprise the access token associated with the mobile client device . The social networking server may then evaluate the access token to determine whether it is valid. If the access token is valid the social networking system may then transmit the request user profile to the intermediate server . Although this disclosure describes accessing particular data from a social networking system in a particular manner this disclosure contemplates accessing any suitable data from a social networking system in any suitable manner.

In particular embodiments an intermediate server may generate a display data optimized for display on the mobile client device . The display data is based on the social networking data that was requested by the mobile client device . If the mobile client device has limited capabilities or processing power it may be desirable to optimize the requested social networking data to that it can be presented on the mobile client device . In particular embodiments the display data may comprise a rendered image capable of being displayed on the mobile device. As an example and not by way of limitation the intermediate server may access a user profile from the social networking system which may be objects in an API session. The intermediate server may then process the objects to generate a rendered image e.g. JPEG TIFF that may be displayed on the mobile client device . Although this disclosure describes generating particular data for display in a particular manner this disclosure contemplates any generating any suitable data for display in any suitable manner.

In particular embodiments an intermediate server may transmit the display data to the mobile client device . The display data may then be displayed on the mobile client device . As an example and not by way of limitation the intermediate server may transmit a rendered image of a user profile from the social networking system. This rendered image may then be displayed on display of the mobile client device . Thus in order to display the requested social networking data the mobile client device does not have to actually process any social networking data and can instead merely display the rendered image that was generated by the intermediate server . Although this disclosure describes transmitting particular data in a particular manner this disclosure contemplates transmitting any suitable data in any suitable manner.

This disclosure contemplates any suitable number of computer systems . This disclosure contemplates computer system taking any suitable physical form. As example and not by way of limitation computer system may be an embedded computer system a system on chip SOC a single board computer system SBC such as for example a computer on module COM or system on module SOM a desktop computer system a laptop or notebook computer system an interactive kiosk a mainframe a mesh of computer systems a mobile telephone a personal digital assistant PDA a server a tablet computer system or a combination of two or more of these. Where appropriate computer system may include one or more computer systems be unitary or distributed span multiple locations span multiple machines span multiple data centers or reside in a cloud which may include one or more cloud components in one or more networks. Where appropriate one or more computer systems may perform without substantial spatial or temporal limitation one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein. As an example and not by way of limitation one or more computer systems may perform in real time or in batch mode one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein. One or more computer systems may perform at different times or at different locations one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein where appropriate.

In particular embodiments computer system includes a processor memory storage an input output I O interface a communication interface and a bus . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular computer system having a particular number of particular components in a particular arrangement this disclosure contemplates any suitable computer system having any suitable number of any suitable components in any suitable arrangement.

In particular embodiments processor includes hardware for executing instructions such as those making up a computer program. As an example and not by way of limitation to execute instructions processor may retrieve or fetch the instructions from an internal register an internal cache memory or storage decode and execute them and then write one or more results to an internal register an internal cache memory or storage . In particular embodiments processor may include one or more internal caches for data instructions or addresses. This disclosure contemplates processor including any suitable number of any suitable internal caches where appropriate. As an example and not by way of limitation processor may include one or more instruction caches one or more data caches and one or more translation lookaside buffers TLBs . Instructions in the instruction caches may be copies of instructions in memory or storage and the instruction caches may speed up retrieval of those instructions by processor . Data in the data caches may be copies of data in memory or storage for instructions executing at processor to operate on the results of previous instructions executed at processor for access by subsequent instructions executing at processor or for writing to memory or storage or other suitable data. The data caches may speed up read or write operations by processor . The TLBs may speed up virtual address translation for processor . In particular embodiments processor may include one or more internal registers for data instructions or addresses. This disclosure contemplates processor including any suitable number of any suitable internal registers where appropriate. Where appropriate processor may include one or more arithmetic logic units ALUs be a multi core processor or include one or more processors . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular processor this disclosure contemplates any suitable processor.

In particular embodiments memory includes main memory for storing instructions for processor to execute or data for processor to operate on. As an example and not by way of limitation computer system may load instructions from storage or another source such as for example another computer system to memory . Processor may then load the instructions from memory to an internal register or internal cache. To execute the instructions processor may retrieve the instructions from the internal register or internal cache and decode them. During or after execution of the instructions processor may write one or more results which may be intermediate or final results to the internal register or internal cache. Processor may then write one or more of those results to memory . In particular embodiments processor executes only instructions in one or more internal registers or internal caches or in memory as opposed to storage or elsewhere and operates only on data in one or more internal registers or internal caches or in memory as opposed to storage or elsewhere . One or more memory buses which may each include an address bus and a data bus may couple processor to memory . Bus may include one or more memory buses as described below. In particular embodiments one or more memory management units MMUs reside between processor and memory and facilitate accesses to memory requested by processor . In particular embodiments memory includes random access memory RAM . This RAM may be volatile memory where appropriate Where appropriate this RAM may be dynamic RAM DRAM or static RAM SRAM . Moreover where appropriate this RAM may be single ported or multi ported RAM. This disclosure contemplates any suitable RAM. Memory may include one or more memories where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular memory this disclosure contemplates any suitable memory.

In particular embodiments storage includes mass storage for data or instructions. As an example and not by way of limitation storage may include a hard disk drive HDD a floppy disk drive flash memory an optical disc a magneto optical disc magnetic tape or a Universal Serial Bus USB drive or a combination of two or more of these. Storage may include removable or non removable or fixed media where appropriate. Storage may be internal or external to computer system where appropriate. In particular embodiments storage is non volatile solid state memory. In particular embodiments storage includes read only memory ROM . Where appropriate this ROM may be mask programmed ROM programmable ROM PROM erasable PROM EPROM electrically erasable PROM EEPROM electrically alterable ROM EAROM or flash memory or a combination of two or more of these. This disclosure contemplates mass storage taking any suitable physical form. Storage may include one or more storage control units facilitating communication between processor and storage where appropriate. Where appropriate storage may include one or more storages . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular storage this disclosure contemplates any suitable storage.

In particular embodiments I O interface includes hardware software or both providing one or more interfaces for communication between computer system and one or more I O devices. Computer system may include one or more of these I O devices where appropriate. One or more of these I O devices may enable communication between a person and computer system . As an example and not by way of limitation an I O device may include a keyboard keypad microphone monitor mouse printer scanner speaker still camera stylus tablet touch screen trackball video camera another suitable I O device or a combination of two or more of these. An I O device may include one or more sensors. This disclosure contemplates any suitable I O devices and any suitable I O interfaces for them. Where appropriate I O interface may include one or more device or software drivers enabling processor to drive one or more of these I O devices. I O interface may include one or more I O interfaces where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular I O interface this disclosure contemplates any suitable I O interface.

In particular embodiments communication interface includes hardware software or both providing one or more interfaces for communication such as for example packet based communication between computer system and one or more other computer systems or one or more networks. As an example and not by way of limitation communication interface may include a network interface controller NIC or network adapter for communicating with an Ethernet or other wire based network or a wireless NIC WNIC or wireless adapter for communicating with a wireless network such as a WI FI network. This disclosure contemplates any suitable network and any suitable communication interface for it. As an example and not by way of limitation computer system may communicate with an ad hoc network a personal area network PAN a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN a metropolitan area network MAN or one or more portions of the Internet or a combination of two or more of these. One or more portions of one or more of these networks may be wired or wireless. As an example computer system may communicate with a wireless PAN WPAN such as for example a BLUETOOTH WPAN a WI FI network a WI MAX network a cellular telephone network such as for example a Global System for Mobile Communications GSM network or other suitable wireless network or a combination of two or more of these. Computer system may include any suitable communication interface for any of these networks where appropriate. Communication interface may include one or more communication interfaces where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular communication interface this disclosure contemplates any suitable communication interface.

In particular embodiments bus includes hardware software or both coupling components of computer system to each other. As an example and not by way of limitation bus may include an Accelerated Graphics Port AGP or other graphics bus an Enhanced Industry Standard Architecture EISA bus a front side bus FSB a HYPERTRANSPORT HT interconnect an Industry Standard Architecture ISA bus an INFINIBAND interconnect a low pin count LPC bus a memory bus a Micro Channel Architecture MCA bus a Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI bus a PCI Express PCIe bus a serial advanced technology attachment SATA bus a Video Electronics Standards Association local VLB bus or another suitable bus or a combination of two or more of these. Bus may include one or more buses where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular bus this disclosure contemplates any suitable bus or interconnect.

Herein reference to a computer readable non transitory storage medium may include a semiconductor based or other integrated circuit IC such as for example a field programmable gate array FPGA or an application specific IC ASIC a hard disk drive HDD a hybrid hard drive HHD an optical disc an optical disc drive ODD a magneto optical disc a magneto optical drive a floppy disk a floppy disk drive FDD magnetic tape a holographic storage medium a solid state drive SSD a RAM drive a SECURE DIGITAL card a SECURE DIGITAL drive another suitable computer readable non transitory storage medium or a suitable combination of these where appropriate. A computer readable non transitory storage medium may be volatile non volatile or a combination of volatile and non volatile where appropriate.

This disclosure contemplates one or more computer readable storage media implementing any suitable storage. In particular embodiments a computer readable storage medium implements one or more portions of processor such as for example one or more internal registers or caches one or more portions of memory one or more portions of storage or a combination of these where appropriate. In particular embodiments a computer readable storage medium implements RAM or ROM. In particular embodiments a computer readable storage medium implements volatile or persistent memory. In particular embodiments one or more computer readable storage media embody software. Herein reference to software may encompass one or more applications bytecode one or more computer programs one or more executables one or more instructions logic machine code one or more scripts or source code and vice versa where appropriate. In particular embodiments software includes one or more application programming interfaces APIs . This disclosure contemplates any suitable software written or otherwise expressed in any suitable programming language or combination of programming languages. In particular embodiments software is expressed as source code or object code. In particular embodiments software is expressed in a higher level programming language such as for example C Perl or a suitable extension thereof. In particular embodiments software is expressed in a lower level programming language such as assembly language or machine code . In particular embodiments software is expressed in JAVA. In particular embodiments software is expressed in Hyper Text Markup Language HTML Extensible Markup Language XML or other suitable markup language.

Links couple servers and clients to network or to each other. This disclosure contemplates any suitable links . As an example and not by way of limitation one or more links each include one or more wireline such as for example Digital Subscriber Line DSL or Data Over Cable Service Interface Specification DOCSIS wireless such as for example Wi Fi or Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WiMAX or optical such as for example Synchronous Optical Network SONET or Synchronous Digital Hierarchy SDH links . In particular embodiments one or more links each includes an intranet an extranet a VPN a LAN a WLAN a WAN a MAN a communications network a satellite network a portion of the Internet or another link or a combination of two or more such links . Links need not necessarily be the same throughout network environment . One or more first links may differ in one or more respects from one or more second links .

This disclosure contemplates any suitable servers . As an example and not by way of limitation one or more servers may each include one or more advertising servers applications servers catalog servers communications servers database servers exchange servers fax servers file servers game servers home servers mail servers message servers news servers name or DNS servers print servers proxy servers sound servers standalone servers web servers or web feed servers. In particular embodiments a server includes hardware software or both for providing the functionality of server . As an example and not by way of limitation a server that operates as a web server may be capable of hosting websites containing web pages or elements of web pages and include appropriate hardware software or both for doing so. In particular embodiments a web server may host HTML or other suitable files or dynamically create or constitute files for web pages on request. In response to a Hyper Text Transfer Protocol HTTP or other request from a client the web server may communicate one or more such files to client . As another example a server that operates as a mail server may be capable of providing e mail services to one or more clients . As another example a server that operates as a database server may be capable of providing an interface for interacting with one or more data stores such as for example data stores described below . Where appropriate a server may include one or more servers be unitary or distributed span multiple locations span multiple machines span multiple datacenters or reside in a cloud which may include one or more cloud components in one or more networks.

In particular embodiments one or more links may couple a server to one or more data stores . A data store may store any suitable information and the contents of a data store may be organized in any suitable manner. As an example and not by way or limitation the contents of a data store may be stored as a dimensional flat hierarchical network object oriented relational XML or other suitable database or a combination or two or more of these. A data store or a server coupled to it may include a database management system or other hardware or software for managing the contents of data store . The database management system may perform read and write operations delete or erase data perform data deduplication query or search the contents of data store or provide other access to data store .

In particular embodiments one or more servers may each include one or more search engines . A search engine may include hardware software or both for providing the functionality of search engine . As an example and not by way of limitation a search engine may implement one or more search algorithms to identify network resources in response to search queries received at search engine one or more ranking algorithms to rank identified network resources or one or more summarization algorithms to summarize identified network resources. In particular embodiments a ranking algorithm implemented by a search engine may use a machine learned ranking formula which the ranking algorithm may obtain automatically from a set of training data constructed from pairs of search queries and selected Uniform Resource Locators URLs where appropriate.

In particular embodiments one or more servers may each include one or more data monitors collectors . A data monitor collection may include hardware software or both for providing the functionality of data collector collector . As an example and not by way of limitation a data monitor collector at a server may monitor and collect network traffic data at server and store the network traffic data in one or more data stores . In particular embodiments server or another device may extract pairs of search queries and selected URLs from the network traffic data where appropriate.

This disclosure contemplates any suitable clients . A client may enable a user at client to access or otherwise communicate with network servers or other clients . As an example and not by way of limitation a client may have a web browser such as MICROSOFT INTERNET EXPLORER or MOZILLA FIREFOX and may have one or more add ons plug ins or other extensions such as GOOGLE TOOLBAR or YAHOO TOOLBAR. A client may be an electronic device including hardware software or both for providing the functionality of client . As an example and not by way of limitation a client may where appropriate be an embedded computer system an SOC an SBC such as for example a COM or SOM a desktop computer system a laptop or notebook computer system an interactive kiosk a mainframe a mesh of computer systems a mobile telephone a PDA a netbook computer system a server a tablet computer system or a combination of two or more of these. Where appropriate a client may include one or more clients be unitary or distributed span multiple locations span multiple machines span multiple datacenters or reside in a cloud which may include one or more cloud components in one or more networks.

Herein or is inclusive and not exclusive unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Therefore herein A or B means A B or both unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Moreover and is both joint and several unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Therefore herein A and B means A and B jointly or severally unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Furthermore a an or the is intended to mean one or more unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Therefore herein an A or the A means one or more A unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context.

This disclosure encompasses all changes substitutions variations alterations and modifications to the example embodiments herein that a person having ordinary skill in the art would comprehend. Similarly where appropriate the appended claims encompass all changes substitutions variations alterations and modifications to the example embodiments herein that a person having ordinary skill in the art would comprehend. Moreover this disclosure encompasses any suitable combination of one or more features from any example embodiment with one or more features of any other example embodiment herein that a person having ordinary skill in the art would comprehend. Furthermore reference in the appended claims to an apparatus or system or a component of an apparatus or system being adapted to arranged to capable of configured to enabled to operable to or operative to perform a particular function encompasses that apparatus system component whether or not it or that particular function is activated turned on or unlocked as long as that apparatus system or component is so adapted arranged capable configured enabled operable or operative.

