---

title: Touch sensor driver with selectable charge source
abstract: An apparatus may include an internal charge pump within an integrated circuit package, an external pin positioned at an exterior of the integrated circuit package, and a select circuit configured to operate independently from the internal charge pump and located within the integrated circuit package, wherein the select circuit is configurable to selectively couple at least one of the internal charge pump and the external pin to a transmit (TX) sensor electrode.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09645672&OS=09645672&RS=09645672
owner: PARADE TECHNOLOGIES, LTD.
number: 09645672
owner_city: Santa Clara
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20151221
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 536 255 filed Jun. 28 2012 entitled Touch Sensor Driver With Selectable Charge Source which itself claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 612 166 filed on Mar. 16 2012 both of which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety.

Computing devices such as notebook computers personal data assistants PDAs kiosks and mobile handsets have user interface devices which are also known as human interface devices HID . One user interface device that has become more common is a touch sensor pad also commonly referred to as a touchpad . A basic notebook computer touch sensor pad emulates the function of a personal computer PC mouse. A touch sensor pad is typically embedded into a PC notebook for built in portability. A touch sensor pad replicates X Y movement using a collection of capacitive sensor electrodes arranged along two defined axes that detect the presence or proximity of one or more conductive objects such as a finger. Mouse right left button clicks can be replicated by two mechanical or capacitive sensed buttons located in the vicinity of the touchpad or by tapping commands on the touch sensor pad itself. The touch sensor pad provides a user interface device for performing such functions as positioning a pointer or selecting an item on a display. These touch sensor pads may include multi dimensional sensor arrays for determining movement of the conductive object in multiple axes. The sensor array may include a one dimensional sensor array detecting movement in one axis. The sensor array may also be two dimensional detecting movements in two axes.

Another user interface device that has become more common is a touch screen. Touch screens also known as touchscreens touch windows touch panels or touchscreen panels are transparent display overlays which are typically either pressure sensitive resistive or piezoelectric electrically sensitive capacitive acoustically sensitive surface acoustic wave SAW or photo sensitive infra red . Such overlays allow a display to be used as an input device removing the keyboard and or the mouse as the primary input device for interacting with the displayed image s content. Such displays can be attached to computers or as terminals to networks. Touch screens have become familiar in retail settings on point of sale systems on ATMs on mobile handsets on kiosks on game consoles and on PDAs where a stylus is sometimes used to manipulate the graphical user interface GUI and to enter data. A user can touch a touch screen or a touch sensor pad to manipulate data. For example a user can apply a single touch by using a finger to touch the surface of a touch screen to select an item from a menu.

The following description sets forth numerous specific details such as examples of specific systems components methods and so forth in order to provide a good understanding of several embodiments of the present invention. It will be apparent to one skilled in the art however that at least some embodiments of the present invention may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known components or methods are not described in detail or are presented in a simple block diagram format in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the present invention. Thus the specific details set forth are merely exemplary. Particular implementations may vary from these exemplary details and still be contemplated to be within the spirit and scope of the present invention.

In one embodiment a capacitive touch sensing system may include a touch sensor controller that stimulates and senses a response from an array of sensor electrodes in a touch sensing surface such as a touch panel. In one embodiment a driver system may generate a stimulus signal or a transmit TX signal that may be applied to one or more of a set of transmit sensor electrodes. In one embodiment the TX signal may be a signal such as a sine wave square wave or other waveform. The TX signal may induce a receive RX signal in one or more RX sensor electrodes through capacitive coupling between the one or more RX sensor electrodes and the sensor electrode to which the TX signal is applied. The RX signal induced in each RX electrode may then be measured by a capacitance sensor to determine information such as the locations of objects proximate to the touch sensing surface.

In one embodiment the TX sensor electrodes may be stimulated using a TX signal having a large amplitude to induce a correspondingly large RX signal that is more easily measured or distinguished from noise. Additionally the TX signal may be a high frequency signal to reduce the amount of time used to perform the sensing operation or to allow operation in a noise free frequency band.

In one embodiment a high frequency TX signal having a high signal amplitude may be generated using a TX driver powered by a high voltage supply. This high voltage supply may be capable of providing sufficient power to the TX driver to drive the capacitive load presented by a TX sensor electrode at the target high frequency and high amplitude. In one embodiment the high voltage supply for such a TX driver may be selectively sourced from an external charge source such as an external charge pump or power supply or from an internal charge pump or power supply. In one embodiment the operation with an internal supply may be enhanced through use of an external reservoir capacitor to augment the capability of one or more TX drivers to supply charge to their associated TX sensor electrodes.

In one embodiment a touch sensor controller may be constructed in an integrated circuit which may be contained within a single integrated circuit device package. A TX driver circuit which is part of such a touch sensor controller may be powered by one or more internal charge sources within the integrated circuit package. A select circuit may also be included within the integrated circuit package and may be used to selectively connect one or more of the internal charge sources with one or more of a number of TX driver circuits within the touch sensor controller.

The select circuit may also selectively connect an external pin to the internal TX driver high voltage supply node. In one embodiment the external pin may be located at an exterior surface of the integrated circuit package. In a first configuration of the TX driver high voltage supply where no external charge source or capacitor is connected to the external pin the TX drivers may be powered by and associated TX sensor electrodes may be charged using an internal charge pump that is connected to the TX driver high voltage supply by the select circuit.

In a second configuration the external pin may be connected to an external capacitor. In one embodiment the external capacitor may function as a reservoir capacitor configured to store charge from the internal charge pump. The external capacitor may thus increase the drive capability of the internal charge pump by allowing the pump to continue operating at full capacity even when any driven TX sensor electrodes have been charged to their target level. In this configuration the select circuit may be configured to connect both of the internal charge pump and the external capacitor to power the TX driver circuits.

In a third configuration the external pin may be connected to an external power supply such as a charge pump switch mode pump buck regulator or other supply type. In one embodiment the external power supply may generate a voltage higher than the voltage generated by the internal charge pump. In one embodiment the external power supply may provide more charge than the internal charge pump is capable of. In one embodiment the external power supply may provide charge at an efficiency greater than that of the internal charge pump. In this configuration the select circuit may be configured to connect the external power supply to the TX driver circuits.

In one embodiment the sensor array includes sensor electrodes N where N is a positive integer that are disposed as a two dimensional matrix also referred to as an XY matrix . The sensor array is coupled to pins N of the processing device via one or more analog buses transporting multiple signals. In an alternative embodiment without an analog bus each pin may instead be connected either to a circuit that generates a TX signal or to an individual RX sensor circuit.

In one embodiment the capacitance sensor may include a relaxation oscillator or other means to convert a capacitance into a measured value. The capacitance sensor may also include a counter or timer to measure the oscillator output. The processing device may further include software components to convert the count value e.g. capacitance value into a touch detection decision also referred to as switch detection decision or relative magnitude. It should be noted that there are various known methods for measuring capacitance such as current versus voltage phase shift measurement resistor capacitor charge timing capacitive bridge divider charge transfer successive approximation sigma delta modulators charge accumulation circuits field effect mutual capacitance frequency shift or other capacitance measurement algorithms. It should be noted however instead of evaluating the raw counts relative to a threshold the capacitance sensor may be evaluating other measurements to determine the user interaction. For example in the capacitance sensor having a sigma delta modulator the capacitance sensor is evaluating the ratio of pulse widths of the output i.e. density domain instead of the raw counts being over or under a certain threshold.

In one embodiment the processing device further includes processing logic . Operations of the processing logic may be implemented in firmware alternatively it may be implemented in hardware or software. The processing logic may receive signals from the capacitance sensor and determine the state of the sensor array such as whether an object e.g. a finger is detected on or in proximity to the sensor array e.g. determining the presence of the object resolve where the object is on the sensor array e.g. determining the location of the object tracking the motion of the object or other information related to an object detected at the touch sensor.

In another embodiment instead of performing the operations of the processing logic in the processing device the processing device may send the raw data or partially processed data to the host . The host as illustrated in may include decision logic that performs some or all of the operations of the processing logic . Operations of the decision logic may be implemented in firmware hardware software or a combination thereof. The host may include a high level Application Programming Interface API in applications that perform routines on the received data such as compensating for sensitivity differences other compensation algorithms baseline update routines start up and or initialization routines interpolation operations or scaling operations. The operations described with respect to the processing logic may be implemented in the decision logic the applications or in other hardware software and or firmware external to the processing device . In some other embodiments the processing device is the host .

In another embodiment the processing device may also include a non sensing actions block . This block may be used to process and or receive transmit data to and from the host . For example additional components may be implemented to operate with the processing device along with the sensor array e.g. keyboard keypad mouse trackball LEDs displays or other peripheral devices .

The processing device may reside on a common carrier substrate such as for example an integrated circuit IC die substrate or a multi chip module substrate. Alternatively the components of the processing device may be one or more separate integrated circuits and or discrete components. In one embodiment the processing device may be a Programmable System on a Chip PSoC processing device developed by Cypress Semiconductor Corporation San Jose Calif. Alternatively the processing device may be one or more other processing devices known by those of ordinary skill in the art such as a microprocessor or central processing unit a controller special purpose processor digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable device. In an alternative embodiment for example the processing device may be a network processor having multiple processors including a core unit and multiple micro engines. Additionally the processing device may include any combination of general purpose processing device s and special purpose processing device s .

In one embodiment the electronic system is implemented in a device that includes the touch sensing surface as the user interface such as handheld electronics portable telephones cellular telephones notebook computers personal computers personal data assistants PDAs kiosks keyboards televisions remote controls monitors handheld multi media devices handheld video players gaming devices control panels of a household or industrial appliances or other computer peripheral or input devices. Alternatively the electronic system may be used in other types of devices. It should be noted that the components of electronic system may include all the components described above. Alternatively electronic system may include only some of the components described above or include additional components not listed herein.

Capacitance sensor includes multiplexer control demultiplexer and multiplexer clock generator signal generator demodulation circuit and analog to digital converter ADC . ADC is further coupled with touch coordinate converter . Touch coordinate converter may be implemented in the processing logic .

The transmit and receive electrodes in the electrode matrix may be arranged so that each of the transmit electrodes overlap and cross each of the receive electrodes such as to form an array of intersections while maintaining galvanic isolation from each other. Thus each transmit electrode may be capacitively coupled with each of the receive electrodes. For example transmit electrode is capacitively coupled with receive electrode at the point where transmit electrode and receive electrode overlap.

Clock generator supplies a clock signal to signal generator which produces a TX control signal to be supplied to the transmit electrodes of touch sensor . In one embodiment TX control signal provides a control signal to multiple TX drivers which provide an alternate signal such as a high voltage waveform to the transmit electrodes of touch sensor . In one embodiment the signal generator includes a set of switches that operate according to the clock signal from clock generator . The switches may generate a TX control signal by periodically connecting the output of signal generator to a first voltage and then to a second voltage wherein said first and second voltages are different.

The output of signal generator is connected with demultiplexer which allows the TX control signal to be applied to any of the M transmit electrodes of touch sensor . In one embodiment the output of signal generator is connected with demultiplexer which allows the TX control signal to be applied to a control input of any of the TX drivers which in turn may apply a modified form of TX control signal to any of the M transmit electrodes of touch sensor . In one embodiment multiplexer control controls demultiplexer so that the TX control signal is applied to each transmit driver or transmit electrode in a controlled sequence. Demultiplexer may also be used to ground float or connect an alternate signal to the other transmit electrodes to which the TX control signal is not currently being applied. In an alternate embodiment the TX control signal may be presented in a true form to a subset of the transmit electrodes and in complement form to a second subset of the transmit electrodes wherein there is no overlap in members of the first and second subset of transmit electrodes .

Because of the capacitive coupling between the transmit and receive electrodes the TX control signal applied to each transmit electrode induces a current within each of the receive electrodes. For instance when the TX control signal is applied to transmit electrode through demultiplexer the TX control signal induces an RX signal on the receive electrodes in matrix . The RX signal on each of the receive electrodes can then be measured in sequence by using multiplexer to connect each of the N receive electrodes to demodulation circuit in sequence.

The mutual capacitance associated with each intersection between a TX electrode and an RX electrode can be measured by selecting every combination of TX electrode and an RX electrode using demultiplexer and multiplexer . To improve performance multiplexer may also be segmented to allow more than one of the receive electrodes in matrix to be routed to additional demodulation circuits . In an optimized configuration wherein there is a 1 to 1 correspondence of instances of demodulation circuit with receive electrodes multiplexer may not be present in the system.

When a conductive object such as a finger approaches the electrode matrix the object causes a decrease in the measured mutual capacitance between only some of the electrodes. For example if a finger is placed near the intersection of transmit electrode and receive electrode the presence of the finger will decrease the charge coupled between electrodes and . Thus the location of the finger on the touchpad can be determined by identifying the one or more receive electrodes having a decrease in measured mutual capacitance in addition to identifying the transmit electrode to which the TX control signal was applied at the time the decrease in capacitance was measured on the one or more receive electrodes.

By determining changes in the mutual capacitances associated with each intersection of electrodes in the matrix the presence and locations of one or more conductive objects may be determined. The determination may be sequential in parallel or may occur more frequently at commonly used electrodes.

In alternative embodiments other methods for detecting the presence of a finger or other conductive object may be used where the finger or conductive object causes an increase in measured capacitance at one or more electrodes which may be arranged in a grid or other pattern. For example a finger placed near an electrode of a capacitive sensor may introduce an additional capacitance to ground that increases the total capacitance between the electrode and ground. The location of the finger can be determined based on the locations of one or more electrodes at which a change in measured capacitance is detected and the associated magnitude of capacitance change at each respective electrode.

The current induced as RX signal is integrated by demodulation circuit . The current output by demodulation circuit can then be filtered and converted to a digital code by ADC .

A series of such digital codes measured from adjacent sensor intersections when compared to or offset by the associated codes of these same sensors in an un touched state may be converted to touch coordinates indicating a position of a conductive object on touch sensor array by touch coordinate converter . The touch coordinates may then be used to detect gestures or perform other functions by the processing logic or be passed to host .

In one embodiment the TX power block may include an internal charge pump that is also contained within the integrated circuit package and an external pin connected to an exterior pin of the integrated circuit package . For example the external pin may be made from conductive material e.g. metal that is accessible from the outside of the integrated circuit package .

The TX power block may further include a select circuit to which the internal charge pump and the external pin are connected. In one embodiment the select circuit is configurable to selectively couple at least one of the internal charge pump and the external pin to a TX sensor electrode through a TX driver. In one embodiment the select circuit is configurable to selectively couple only one of the internal charge pump and the external pin to a TX sensor electrode or both of the internal charge pump and the external pin to the TX sensor electrode.

For example the select circuit may be configured to connect one or both of the internal charge pump and the external pin through drive control to TX driver circuit and ultimately to an array of sensor electrodes such as sensor array illustrated in .

In one embodiment the select circuit may be configured to operate independently from the internal charge pump . In other words the select circuit is distinct from any switching circuitry that may function as part of the internal charge pump that allows the internal charge pump to function normally.

In one embodiment the driver control circuit is used to limit the amount of outrush and inrush current to and from the TX sensor electrodes. In one embodiment the TX driver circuit may contain one TX driver that is switched to one or more TX sensor electrodes. In an alternate embodiment TX driver circuit may contain a separate TX driver for each sensor electrode in sensor array . In one embodiment the TX driver circuit may be used to selectively connect the VTX HI and VTX LO signals generated by the TX power block with individual TX sensor electrodes according to a sequence. In one embodiment this sequence follows the TX control signal so as to present a TX signal onto the enabled TX sensor electrodes. For example during a scan of the touch sensing surface the TX driver circuit may alternately apply the VTX HI and VTX LO voltages from the drive control circuit following the TX control signal to each TX sensor electrode from the set of TX sensor electrodes in sensor array .

In one embodiment the TX driver circuit applies the TX signal to only one TX sensor element at a time alternatively the TX driver circuit may apply the TX signal to multiple TX sensor elements simultaneously. In one embodiment the TX driver circuit applies the TX signal in true form to multiple TX sensor elements and also applies the TX signal in complement form to multiple other TX sensor elements simultaneously. In one embodiment the TX signal driven onto a single TX sensor electrode may vary between VTX HI and VTX LO. In one embodiment the TX driver circuit may be contained within the integrated circuit package . In an alternative embodiment the TX driver circuit may be outside the integrated circuit package .

In one embodiment the select circuit may be configured based on a configuration value that is stored in a memory. For example such a configuration value may indicate which of the charge sources such as the internal charge pump a supply voltage VDDA and external pin are to be connected to the TX sensor electrodes through the drive control current limiters and TX driver circuit . The SHIELD REF voltage may be buffered by buffer and the resulting voltage VSHIELD may also be routed to TX driver circuit by the select circuit . In one embodiment the TX driver circuit may selectively apply the VSHIELD signal to specified electrodes in the sensor array while simultaneously applying the TX signal to alternate electrodes in the same sensor array. Thus the select circuit may be used to select one or more of the charge sources to be used for generating the VTX HI signal which may in turn be used to generate the final TX signal that is applied to the TX sensor electrodes.

In one embodiment the internal charge pump may operate to supply a programmable voltage to the select circuit . For example the charge pump may supply up to 10 volts to the select circuit . In one embodiment the internal charge pump may generate its output voltage from a lower internal voltage that is supplied to the charge pump . For example the charge pump may generate a 10 volt output from a 2.8 volt supply voltage VDDA.

In one embodiment the charge pump is programmable to output a specific voltage level. In one embodiment the TX power block may also include a feedback control circuit that may scale or otherwise process feedback for the internal charge pump and a clock control to control the CLOCK signal for operating the charge pump .

In one embodiment the external pin may be used for connecting an external charge source with the TX power block within the integrated circuit package . The external charge source may be for example an external capacitor or an external power supply .

In one embodiment the TX power block within the integrated circuit package may be configured to use an external capacitor that is connected to the external pin . In this configuration the select circuit connects the internal charge pump and the external pin to the drive control circuit such that the internal charge pump can direct charge not needed by the TX electrodes to the external capacitor . The combination of the charge pump and the external capacitor may then be used to supply the VTX HI voltage that is ultimately used to generate the signal presented to the TX sensor electrode.

In one embodiment the external capacitor functions independently from the internal charge pump . In other words the external capacitor is distinct from any capacitor that may function as part of the internal charge pump that allows the internal charge pump to function normally.

In one embodiment the external capacitor may have a capacitance of a few tens of nanofarads to a few hundred nanofarads and may function as a charge reservoir for the charge pump . Thus charge stored in the external capacitor may be supplied to charge the TX sensor electrode when a current is drawn from the TX system such as when a TX pulse is asserted at the TX sensor electrode via the TX driver circuit . For instance when a TX pulse is asserted to the sensor panel a current pulse may flow into the TX sensor electrode for a short period such as a fraction of a microsecond before decaying in magnitude as the TX electrode is charged. In one embodiment where the charge pump lacks sufficient capacity to deliver sufficient charge in such a short period of time the external capacitor may supply the additional charge.

The process moderates the peak current that the charger pump must deliver by allowing the charge pump to recharge the external capacitor when no current is being demanded from the TX power block . The external capacitor thus either allows for a higher peak current to flow to the one or more TX sensor electrodes than would otherwise be possible by using only the charge pump or allows for a smaller charge pump to generate the same peak current flow. In one embodiment when the select circuit combines the capabilities of the internal charge pump with the charge stored on the external capacitor the resulting average and peak output currents may be increased by a factor of 2 or 3.

In one embodiment the TX power block may provide for turning off of VDDA for periods of time for power savings or other reasons. In one embodiment if an external capacitor is connected to the external pin when VDDA is turned off the select circuit limits the rate of discharge of the external capacitor so that the VTX HI supply voltage does not decay substantially while VDDA is turned off. In one embodiment the voltage at the external capacitor may be monitored and the internal charge pump may operate to restore the voltage at the external capacitor if the voltage falls below a threshold.

In one embodiment an alternate configuration may be used where an external power supply is coupled with the external pin . In this configuration the select circuit may be configured to connect the external pin to the drive control block so that the external power supply can supply charge to the TX driver circuit and sensor electrodes in sensor array .

In one embodiment when the external power supply is being used the internal charge pump may be turned off and the select circuit may route power only from the external pin to the TX driver circuit . In one embodiment the voltage generated by the external power supply may be higher than the supply voltage VDDA.

In one embodiment the external power supply may be implemented using a special chip such as a power management integrated circuit PMIC or a special purpose regulator chip which may be capable of delivering an elevated voltage with current capacity that is greater than the current capacity that can be achieved by an internal charge pump contained within the integrated circuit package .

In addition to being supplied to the charge pump the internal voltage VDDA may in an embodiment also be connected to the select circuit such that the select circuit is configurable to selectively connect at least one of VDDA the internal charge pump and the external pin to the TX drivers and sensor electrodes through drive control .

In one embodiment the TX power block may include one or more additional internal voltage sources connected to the select circuit such that the select circuit may be configured to selectively connect at least one of the additional internal voltage sources to the TX sensor electrodes.

In one embodiment the VDDA voltage may be one of such sources that may be used for generating the TX signal. In particular the VDDA voltage may be useful if it is high enough and has sufficiently low noise characteristics. In one embodiment the VDDA voltage may be 3.3 volts or 5 volts. In one embodiment VDDA may be internally connected to the select circuit via a conductive path within the integrated circuit package . In an alternative embodiment VDDA may be connected to the select circuit through the external pin .

In one embodiment the TX power block may also include one or more additional voltage sources that may be selected by the select circuit instead of the charge pump VDDA or the external pin . For example a SHIELD REF voltage may also be selectable by the select circuit . Thus the select circuit may be configurable to selectively connect at least one of the SHIELD REF VDDA the internal charge pump and the external pin to the TX driver circuit . In one embodiment the SHIELD REF voltage may be buffered by buffer .

TX driver operating process begins at block where the select circuit is configured to selectively couple one or more charge sources with the drive control circuit and ultimately with one or more TX drivers and associated sensor electrodes. In one embodiment the charge sources may include the internal charge pump and the external pin which may be connected to an external power supply or an external capacitor . The TX driver operation process may drive the TX sensor electrode by transferring charge from the one or more charge sources to the TX sensor electrode.

In a first configuration configuration the external pin may be left unconnected to any external charge source while the select circuit is configured at block to connect the internal charge pump or one of the other internal voltage sources to the drive control circuit and ultimately to a TX sensor electrode.

In this configuration the process may continue from block to block where the TX power block supplies power to the TX driver circuit which drives a TX sensor electrode by transferring charge from the internal charge pump to the TX sensor electrode through the drive control circuit . Alternatively one of the other internal voltage sources such as VDDA or SHIELD REF may be used instead of the internal charge pump .

In a second configuration configuration the external pin may be connected to an external capacitor while the select circuit is configured at block to connect both the internal charge pump and the external pin to the drive control circuit and ultimately to the enabled TX drivers and sensor electrodes.

In this configuration the process continues from block to block . At block the TX power block may use the internal charge pump to charge the external capacitor . In one embodiment this may occur when the VTX LO signal is being asserted at the TX sensor electrode such that current is not being drawn from the TX power block . In one embodiment this may also occur during the latter portion of when the VTX HI signal is asserted at the TX sensor electrode when the full capacity of the charge pump is not being used to deliver charge to the enabled TX electrodes. When current is not being drawn charge generated by the charge pump may be stored in the capacitor instead of being used to drive a higher voltage VTX HI signal at the TX sensor electrode.

From block the process continues at block . At block the TX power block may drive the TX sensor electrode with a VTX HI signal by transferring charge from at least the external capacitor to the TX sensor electrode. In one embodiment the external capacitor may be used to augment the current capacity of the internal charge pump such that a higher VTX HI current can be sourced.

In a third configuration configuration the external pin may be connected to an external power supply while the select circuit is configured at block to connect the external pin to the drive control circuit and ultimately to a TX sensor electrode.

In this configuration the process continues from block to block . At block the TX block may use the external power supply to supply the current when VTX HI is being applied to the one or more TX sensor electrodes. Specifically the select circuit transfers charge from the external power supply via the external pin through the drive control circuit and TX driver circuit and ultimately to the TX sensor electrodes.

Thus in one embodiment a TX driver system as described above may be provided in a single integrated circuit package and may allow a touch panel designer to select one of many possible configurations depending on desired current capacity available space for the design power consumption considerations and other factors.

Embodiments of the present invention described herein include various operations. These operations may be performed by hardware components software firmware or a combination thereof. As used herein the term coupled to may mean coupled directly or indirectly through one or more intervening components. Any of the signals provided over various buses described herein may be time multiplexed with other signals and provided over one or more common buses. Additionally the interconnection between circuit components or blocks may be shown as buses or as single signal lines. Each of the buses may alternatively be one or more single signal lines and each of the single signal lines may alternatively be buses.

Certain embodiments may be implemented as a computer program product that may include instructions stored on a computer readable medium. These instructions may be used to program a general purpose or special purpose processor to perform the described operations. A computer readable medium includes any mechanism for storing or transmitting information in a form e.g. software processing application readable by a machine e.g. a computer . The computer readable storage medium may include but is not limited to magnetic storage medium e.g. floppy diskette optical storage medium e.g. CD ROM magneto optical storage medium read only memory ROM random access memory RAM erasable programmable memory e.g. EPROM and EEPROM flash memory or another type of medium suitable for storing electronic instructions.

Additionally some embodiments may be practiced in distributed computing environments where the computer readable medium is stored on and or executed by more than one computer system. In addition the information transferred between computer systems may either be pulled or pushed across the transmission medium connecting the computer systems.

Although the operations of the method s herein are shown and described in a particular order the order of the operations of each method may be altered so that certain operations may be performed in an inverse order or so that certain operation may be performed at least in part concurrently with other operations. In another embodiment instructions or sub operations of distinct operations may be in an intermittent and or alternating manner.

In the foregoing specification the invention has been described with reference to specific exemplary embodiments thereof. It will however be evident that various modifications and changes may be made thereto without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the invention as set forth in the appended claims. The specification and drawings are accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative sense rather than a restrictive sense.

