---

title: Personal augmented reality
abstract: Image data comprising an image of an environment is received from a mobile video device located at the environment. An image of a marker is extracted from the received image for use in identifying the location of the mobile video device. A location associated with the marker is extracted from a database and the extracted location is sent as the location of the mobile video device. Also received is a request for information about an item in the environment that is of interest to a user of the mobile video device. A location in the environment associated with the item of interest is identified, and the information indicating the location of the item is transmitted to the mobile device for display within an image of the environment on the mobile video device. The item of interest may be displayed as an augmented reality within an image of the environment.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09530059&OS=09530059&RS=09530059
owner: eBay, Inc.
number: 09530059
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20151209
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 340 141 filed on Dec. 29 2011 the benefit of priority of which is claimed hereby and which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

This application relates to a method and system for providing augmented reality for the environment in which a user is watching an event live in a stadium.

An individual viewing a real time event in person may desire information related to the real time event the people engaged in the real time event the locale of the real time event and even other viewers at the locale of the real time event. Further the viewing individual may desire that information in such as way as to augment his or her viewing of the event. Conventionally the only such information available to the viewer is merely the fraction of the desired information for example that information which entities controlling the real time event may elect to provide at a scoreboard or other display at the real time event. Even this information does not actually augment the real time event other than by being viewable in a general and not personal such as personal choice way. Consequently the individual viewer has no or only a very limited way of obtaining the desired information presented in a way that is most beneficial to that individual. In addition sales organizations desire to target advertisements to the viewing individual at the locale based on characteristics or location of the individual. Often such organizations have only very limited ways of targeting such advertisements.

Although the present disclosure has been described with reference to specific example embodiments it will be evident that various modifications and changes may be made to these embodiments without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the disclosure. Accordingly the specification and drawings are to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense.

Example embodiments described herein provide systems and methods for augmenting one s experience at a real time in person attendance of an event such as in one embodiment attending a baseball game at a ballpark. This may be accomplished by concurrently viewing the event at the ballpark using a camera such as on an iPhone or a camera embodied in a mobile device such as an iPad. Such devices may herein be termed a client device or a user device or an iPhone or an iPad without limiting the type of device used. In example embodiments environment image data containing an image of an environment is received by a system from a client device operated by a user in one embodiment viewing the ball game at the ballpark.

The user may wish to use the user device to watch the game with statistics the user is most interested in such as statistics for one team for one particular player for one position and the like. The user may also desire to have an embodiment which may be used to determine specific attributes of the ball park such as type and location of a restaurant handicapped bathrooms an exit closest to where the user parked and the like. The user may send the system a request for the desired information to augment the reality of the ball game being watched at the ballpark.

Likewise marketing organizations whether online ecommerce organizations or conventional brick and mortar organizations may desire an embodiment that allows them to target ads to the user. These ads may be for items that are based on the user s purchase history interests or on the location of an organization closest to the ballpark that sells such items. Given different histories and interests of people two people could be watching the same game at the same ballpark but have different ads targeted to them. Using appropriate image scaling a selection of statistic or ad to be targeted and its placement into an indicated location of the environment as an augmentation may be implemented. As used herein the statistic or targeted ad may be referred to herein as an item for ease of reference and without losing generality. An image of the selected item is scaled to a scale that is based on dimensions determined from the environment image data for the environment. The dimensions may be determined based on a calculated distance to a focal point of the indicated location in the environment and or on a marker located in the image of the environment. The scaled item image is augmented into the image of the environment at the indicated location to generate an augmented reality image. In some embodiments the scaled item may be oriented to match an orientation of the indicated location in the environment. Technology useful in implementing augmented reality may be seen in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 283 416 filed Oct. 27 2011 and entitled SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR VISUALIZATION OF ITEMS IN AN ENVIRONMENT USING AUGMENTED REALITY particularly FIGS. 1 5 thereof and the text associated therewith. The foregoing patent application is owned by the owner of the present patent and is hereby incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

By using embodiments of the present disclosure a user may search for an item and augment an image of an environment with an image of the item that is a personal choice of the user. Because the user may create and view an augmented reality image of the environment including the selected item the user easily views the selected item in the environment. Therefore one or more of the methodologies discussed herein may obviate a need for time consuming data processing by the user in order to obtain requested statistics and the like. This may have the technical effect of reducing computing resources used by one or more devices within the system. Examples of such computing resources include without limitation processor cycles network traffic memory usage storage space and power consumption.

Embodiments may be implemented using wireless or other suitable technology. As discussed the user may be watching a live baseball game in a ballpark. The system may have stored in its database relevant information about ballparks of interest the information including location of various points within each ballpark perhaps by ballpark coordinates or by other appropriate locating markers such as ballpark section numbers and seat numbers. The system may also have stored in its database the players of relevant teams e.g. teams in the league in which the current team plays by number position or other identification and their statistics. In the discussion that follows queries or requests that may be made to the system by the user may be implemented as selection of predetermined queries available on a user interface UI on a user device such as a UI of an iPad or an iPhone on which the user is watching the game live in the ballpark. For example the user may select predetermined requests on the UI. This may also be accomplished for example by the user employing a UI on the user device to send a non predetermined request e.g. a request which is of the user s personal choice to the system for statistics for the player being viewed whose identity may also be sent to the system by the user by way of the UI or may be otherwise recognized by the system by the technologies discussed more fully below. Similarly the system database may have stored the team pitching rotation for starters and relievers for this and perhaps all relevant teams and any players that are currently on the injured reserve list for each team. The database may also store the current league standing and the possible playoff scenarios based on current won lost for each team and the possibilities of wins and losses for teams leading up to the playoffs.

In one embodiment the user may use the camera of a user device such as an iPhone or an iPad to provide context such as the baseball game the user is watching in a ballpark as mentioned above along with requested items of information. In response the system and the display of the user device may show items popping up to augment the reality of the game that is being watched. While the user is looking at the field using an iPad he or she may aim the camera of the iPad for a close up of a particular player. The player s image may be rendered on the display of the iPad during the real time baseball game and player statistics for that player may also be rendered on the display by the system responsive to the user s request for the statistics. This may be accomplished for example by the user employing a UI on the user device to send a request to the system for statistics for the player being viewed whose identity may be sent to the system by the user by way of the UI or otherwise recognized by the system as more fully discussed below.

In another embodiment the system may include a video recognition system that recognizes images of the players for example by the player s team uniform number to enable the system to correlate team uniform number and player in order to transmit the correct statistics for viewing if so requested. The system may if desired point to the particular player by arrow or other indicator when augmenting the reality of in person watching of the game live by presenting the player s statistics on the user device.

In another embodiment the camera of the iPad may point from player to player and the system may recognize the players by number recognition or by other technology recognition such as facial recognition algorithms or by RFID identification from an RFID chip embedded in the player s uniform. The user s favorite players may be found by matching an earlier prepared list of the user s favorite players located in an appropriate database including the players numbers or other identification with the player identity that is so recognizable by the system as the camera pans across the field. The recognition may be made by using the technology discussed above the numbers being compared to those of the user s favorite players by database search as the user device scans a player. The system may then transmit the requested player statistics for rendering on the iPad display along with for example arrows pointing to the various favorite players on the screen of the user device as the camera pans across the field of play. Similarly the ball itself may contain an RFID chip and the above technology used to augment the reality of the ballgame on the iPad by using the detected path of the RFID chip within the ball to illustrate the trajectory of the ball.

Based on the above implementations the user may request the statistics of a particular player the statistics of his or her favorite player how a player compares in various statistic areas with other players at the same position how the particular player compares in batting average or how the player compares in other statistics categories with other players in the league.

Another embodiment may show the user for example by arrows where friends of the user are seated in the stands of the ballpark. This may be implemented as one example by the user sending the system a query for the seat location of a friend. Responsive to this query the system may read the friend s phone number from the user s cell phone contact list and in conjunction with a global positioning service GPS satellite system determine the seat location generally or specifically of the cell phone that has the friend s phone number. The system may then from the above stored ballpark coordinates respond to the user with information as to the friend s seat location including if desired placing an arrow on the display of the user device pointing to the location of the friend s seat augmenting the viewer s personal reality of viewing the ballpark live. In an alternate embodiment instead of GPS technology the system may have stored in its database the names of people who purchased the various seats in the ballpark and may then upon request for the seating of a particular person search for the name of that person to find the person s seat location. Again if desired an arrow pointing to the seat location may be placed upon the image of the user device in order to augment the reality of the live viewing of the game. In yet another embodiment the friend may have posted on a social network such as Facebook the section row and seat number where that friend will be sitting. The user may then read this seating off the friend s Facebook wall and send that information to the system for use by the system in augmenting the user device by as one example pointing on the device s display to the point in the ballpark where that seating is located. In still another embodiment directions may be provided based on the user s preferences sent to the system with or as part of the request. For example if the user requires elevators the system will point the user in the direction that includes elevators if the user needs a ramp the system points to the direction including ramps. Otherwise the system may be free to point out directions using stairs.

In another embodiment the iPhone or iPad may function as a set of eyeglasses providing the user with information relevant to the user s personal choices as the user moves the user device from place to place within the ballpark. For example as the user walks out of the user s seating section towards the ballpark concourse the user device may responsive to user query show the location of ballpark locations that the user may be interested in for example the closest bathroom or a bathroom that is outfitted for the handicapped. This could be done by the camera of the user device transmitting to the system images of various locations of the ballpark such as a marker showing a ballpark section number. As mentioned previously the system may have previously stored in a database an image of the ballpark with coordinates for various areas of the ballpark perhaps keyed to various ballpark markers. The database may be searched using the marker transmitted from the camera and the desired location may be rendered on the display of the user device along with the pointing information discussed above.

Other embodiments may include the user requesting the system to display the shortest path out of the stadium to where the user parked his or her car. The system may receive a feed of road traffic and the user could request the parking lot exit from which to leave in order to encounter the least traffic the fastest way home or the route that has the least traffic or the route that passes a particular restaurant or that passes several restaurants on the way home and the system could respond with that information for display on the user device.

In any of the above embodiments as desired the system may also access the user s purchasing history if for example the system is or is associated with an ecommerce system or other type of marketing system. The system may then along with or separate from the above augmented reality information transmit advertisements to the user based on that purchasing history. In addition the advertisements may be based on the location of the ballpark and indicate the location of a store near the ballpark that sells the subject matter of the advertisement. The system may when sending statistics that were requested for a player also include an advertisement showing where the jersey or other souvenirs of the player can be purchased or where team memorabilia such as championship pennant replicas may be purchased. Since the purchasing history is personal to the user different users using the above methods would view the same game in the same ballpark but would receive different responses to the same query from the system.

A data exchange platform in an example form of a network based publisher may provide server side functionality via a network e.g. the Internet to one or more clients. The one or more clients may include users that utilize the network system and more specifically the network based publisher to exchange data over the network . These transactions may include transmitting receiving communicating and processing data to from and regarding content and users of the network system . The data may include but are not limited to content and user data such as feedback data user reputation values user profiles user attributes product and service reviews and information such as pricing and descriptive information product service manufacture and vendor recommendations and identifiers product and service listings associated with buyers and sellers auction bids and transaction data among other things.

In various embodiments the data exchanges within the network system may be dependent upon user selected functions available through one or more client or UIs. The UIs may be associated with a client machine such as a client machine using a web client . The web client may be in communication with the network based publisher via a web server . The UIs may also be associated with a client machine using a programmatic client such as a client application or a mobile device hosting a third party application . It may be appreciated in various embodiments the client machine or third party server may be associated with a buyer a seller a third party electronic commerce platform a payment service provider or a shipping service provider each in communication with the network based publisher and optionally each other. The buyers and sellers may be any one of individuals merchants or service providers among other things.

A mobile device such as an iPad or an iPhone as non limiting examples may also be in communication with the network based publisher via a web server . The mobile device may include a portable electronic device providing at least some of the functionalities of the client machines and . The mobile device may include a third party application or a web client configured communicate with application server .

Turning specifically to the network based publisher an application program interface API server and a web server are coupled to and provide programmatic and web interfaces respectively to one or more application servers . The application servers may host one or more publication application s and a location based incentive application . The application servers are in turn shown to be coupled to one or more database server s that facilitate access to one or more database s .

In one embodiment the web server and the API server communicate and receive data pertaining to statistics and feedback among other things via various user input tools. For example the web server may send and receive data to and from a toolbar or webpage on a browser application e.g. web client operating on a client machine e.g. client machine . The API server may send and receive data to and from an application e.g. client application or third party application running on other client machines e.g. client machine or mobile device which as previously indicated may be an iPhone or an iPad .

A publication application s may provide a number of publisher functions and services e.g. listing payment etc. to users that access the network based publisher . For example the publication application s may provide a number of services and functions to users for listing goods and or services for sale facilitating transactions and reviewing and providing feedback about transactions and associated users. Other publication applications not shown within or external to the network based publisher may provide statistics for players names of parties associated with ballpark seating traffic information map information store locations and the like.

The third party application may execute on a third party server not shown and may have programmatic access to the network based publisher via the programmatic interface provided by the API server . For example the third party application may use information retrieved from the network based publisher to support one or more features or functions on a website hosted by the third party. The third party website may for example provide one or more listing feedback publisher or payment functions that are supported by the relevant applications of the network based publisher .

The network based publisher may provide a multitude of feedback reputation aggregation and listing and price setting mechanisms whereby a user may be a seller or buyer who lists or buys goods and or services e.g. for sale published on the network based publisher .

The application server also includes a location based application . The location based application communicates advertisements some of which may offer incentives to the mobile device based on the mobile device location and the purchase history or other indicated preferences of the user of the mobile device as further described below.

In one embodiment the location based incentive application receives a communication from the mobile device . For example the communication may include a specification of an item and a location of the mobile device . Based on the specified item and the location of the mobile device the incentive module queries to retrieve results from the database server and database to determine and communicate incentives from local merchants to the mobile device .

The location identification module may also include a location input module configured to determine a geographic location of the mobile device by requesting the user to input an address city zip code or other location information on his her mobile device . In one embodiment the user may select a location from a list of locations or a map on the mobile device . For example a user on the mobile device inputs the location of the mobile device via an application or a web browser on the mobile device . In another embodiment the location input module derives the geographic location of the user by communicating with third party application using respective APIs Application Programming Interface .

The location identification module may also include a location dependent search term module . The location of the mobile device may be inferred when the user of the mobile device requests a search on the mobile device using location dependent search terms. For example a user inputs a request sometimes referred herein as a search query on his her mobile device for Best Japanese Restaurant in my locale exit nearest my seat exit nearest where my car is parked and the like. The location dependent search term module queries and retrieves results from a database not shown that may determine the geographic location of the ballpark the best Japanese restaurant near the user s location perhaps based on opinions submitted by restaurant customers. Further the user may request or the user s history such as on a social network may show a preference for a certain type of Japanese food. The system may then send directions to the closest Japanese restaurant that serves that preferred Japanese food and not merely the closest Japanese restaurant. The location dependent search term module may have earlier received from the user the user s seating at the ballpark to use as needed for the above requests or may have obtained the user s seating by having access to seats purchased by person which information may also be used for determining the information to be supplied by the system responsive to the request.

The location identification module may also include a tag module configured to determine the geographic location of the mobile device based on a tag associated with a unique geographic location. The tag may include for example a barcode tag e.g. linear barcode or two dimensional bar code or a Radio Frequency Identification RFID tag that is associated with a unique geographic location. For example the user of the mobile device may use his her mobile device to scan the tag placed at a landmark or store. The tag may be uniquely associated with the geographic location of the landmark or store. Such relationship may be stored in a database. The tag module may then determine the geographic location of the mobile device based on the tag after consulting the database.

The audio identification module may identify an item or a category of the item as specified by the user at the mobile device using an audio input from the user at the mobile device. For example the user may speak statistics and David Ortiz at the location of the mobile device. The audio identification module may include a speech recognition system not shown that enables the spoken words of the user to be transcribed into text.

The audio identification module may be used to identify the specified statistics by comparing the name of the player transcribed from the audio with a database containing player statistics.

The machine readable symbol module may identify an item by having the user scan an RFID chip or any other machine readable symbol such as a player s uniform number at a distance with his her mobile device as a machine readable symbol reader. For example the mobile device may include an optical device e.g. a lens configured to capture an image of a player. The mobile device may then upload the captured image to the machine readable symbol module . The machine readable symbol module processes the captured image by querying and retrieving results from a database of machine readable images to match the captured image of the player symbol with corresponding statistics. The machine readable symbol module may then identify the statistics specified by the user at the mobile device for rendering at the user device to augment the viewing or watching of the ball game in real time at the ballpark.

The image identification module may identify an item by having the user take a picture of the item with his her mobile device . Mobile devices commonly have an optical lens for capturing pictures. The mobile device may then upload the picture for example of the player with certain recognizable features to the image identification module . The image identification module analyzes the picture using an image recognition algorithm such as a facial feature recognition algorithm for facial recognition or a numerical recognition algorithm jersey number recognition neither algorithm shown to match the uploaded picture with a corresponding image of an item. The image recognition algorithm consults a database of images and corresponding statistics or other information items to identify the uploaded picture.

The video identification module may be configured to identify an item by having the user take a video of the player with the user s mobile device. Mobile devices commonly have an optical lens to capture video. The mobile device may then upload the video or a portion of the video to the video identification module . The video identification module analyzes the frames of the video for example a jersey number or a player s facial image using an image recognition algorithm not shown to match a frame of the video with a corresponding image of the player. The image recognition algorithm may query and retrieve results from a database of images and corresponding items to identify the uploaded video. For example a user may take a video with his her mobile device of a player walking on the field. The video identification module recognizes the player and identifies the player s statistics among other identifying and descriptive information about the player. In any of the above embodiments the system may also return an advertisement to the user based on the user s purchase history if the system has access to that history. The system may also return an advertisement to the user based on the user s interest such as an interest in a particular player. The system may also return an advertisement based on the location of the user device.

The local merchant module identifies at least one local merchant having at least one incentive based on the geographic location of the mobile device as determined by the location identification module . A local merchant may be a merchant or retailer that is located within a predefined distance from the geographic location of the mobile device . In one embodiment the local merchant module identifies at least one local merchant with at least one incentive based on a search distance preference as specified in preference module .

It should be noted that the incentive of the local merchant may or may not correspond to the item identified by the user. For example a local merchant may feature a special sale on shoes while the identified item corresponds to a digital camera. Once all local merchants having incentives are identified based on the geographic location of the mobile device using a database of incentives the incentive match module may filter all local merchants based on the identified item such as a favorite player indicated by the user sending a request for information with respect to that player. In the previous example the local merchant featuring a sale on sports memorabilia for the player may be filtered out from the search result. In addition the filtering can be on the basis of the user s personal shopping history and or also preferences. For example if it is known such as in only one example that the user s Facebook account indicates a number of Likes for hats incentives for hats may be sent. If the information indicates a number of Dislikes for shoes incentives for shoes may not be sent.

The item category module determines the item in the current example a player specified by the user and identified by item identification module . The item category module determines that a category of the item related to the player specified by the user falls into the category of athletic memorabilia.

The incentive match module determines whether the identified item category corresponds to a category in at least one incentive of at least one local merchant as determined by the local merchant module . For example a user specifies David Ortiz with his her mobile device. The item is identified as player David Ortiz. The item identification module generates an identity such as athletic memorabilia relating to David Ortiz. The local merchant module identifies merchants with incentives local to the geographic location of the mobile device . The incentive match module matches local merchants with incentives sale or discount on the specific memorabilia.

The communication module communicates one or more incentives of the identified item from at least one local merchant to the mobile device . For example a list of local merchants within a preset distance radius e.g. one mile of the mobile device is displayed. The list of local merchants may include a sale or discount on the item identified by the user of the mobile device . The list may also include a list of recommended merchants having an incentive on the identified item that are located beyond the preset distance radius.

In another embodiment the communication module communicates one or more incentives of the identified category of the items from at least one local merchant to the mobile device . For example a list of local merchants within a preset distance radius e.g. a block of the mobile device is displayed. The list of local merchants may include a sale or discount on similar or related items to the identified item specified by the user of the mobile device . The list may also include a list of recommended merchants having an incentive on similar items to the identified item that are located beyond the preset distance radius.

In another example of using the method of the requested item at may be a request to show where a friend is seated. As discussed above the system may use the GPS triangulation technology of to locate the requested seating. As an alternative the system may use seating information provided from the user or from the friend s Facebook site to locate the seating. The system may then using the augmentation technology already discussed or other such appropriate technology augment the user s view of the real time in person viewing by placing an arrow such as that seen in pointing to the seating on the display of the user device while the camera of the device is viewing the ballpark as seen in . The actual location of the seating may be determined by the system as discussed generally above by using ballpark coordinates or by other appropriate locating markers such as ballpark section number and seat numbers illustrated in which may already be stored in the system s database. While the ballpark illustrated in shows only the seating of the ballpark well known technology may be employed to superimpose a grid of coordinates on the image of and use the resultant map to locate the seating in order to implement the augmentation under discussion.

Also as discussed above with respect to the location based applications including incentive module the system may use the user s location to target advisements to the user. Technology for implementing advertisement targeting is discussed in more detail in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 050 769 filed Mar. 17 2011 and entitled TARGETED INCENTIVE ACTIONS BASED ON LOCATION AND INTENT particularly and the text associated therewith. The foregoing application is owned by the assignee of the present patent and is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

The example computer system includes a processor e.g. a central processing unit CPU a graphics processing unit GPU or both a main memory and a static memory which communicate with each other via a bus . The computer system may further include a video display unit e.g. a liquid crystal display LCD or a cathode ray tube CRT . The computer system also includes an alphanumeric input device e.g. a keyboard a user interface UI navigation device e.g. a mouse a disk drive unit a signal generation device e.g. a speaker and a network interface device .

The disk drive unit includes a machine readable medium on which is stored one or more sets of instructions and data structures e.g. software embodying or utilized by any one or more of the methodologies or functions described herein. The software may also reside completely or at least partially within the main memory and or within the processor during execution thereof by the computer system the main memory and the processor also constituting machine readable media.

The software may further be transmitted or received over a network via the network interface device utilizing any one of a number of well known transfer protocols e.g. HTTP .

While the machine readable medium is shown in an example embodiment to be a single medium the term machine readable medium should be taken to include a single medium or multiple media e.g. a centralized or distributed database and or associated caches and servers that store the one or more sets of instructions. The term machine readable medium shall also be taken to include any medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying a set of instructions for execution by the machine and that cause the machine to perform any one or more of the methodologies of the present disclosure or that is capable of storing encoding or carrying data structures utilized by or associated with such a set of instructions. The term machine readable medium shall accordingly be taken to include but not be limited to solid state memories optical media and magnetic media.

The Abstract of the Disclosure is provided to comply with 37 C.F.R. 1.72 b requiring an abstract that will allow the reader to quickly ascertain the nature of the technical disclosure. It is submitted with the understanding that it will not be used to interpret or limit the scope or meaning of the claims. In addition in the foregoing Detailed Description it can be seen that various features are grouped together in a single embodiment for the purpose of streamlining the disclosure. This method of disclosure is not to be interpreted as reflecting an intention that the claimed embodiments require more features than are expressly recited in each claim. Rather as the following claims reflect the disclosed subject matter lies in less than all features of a single disclosed embodiment. Thus the following claims are hereby incorporated into the Detailed Description with each claim standing on its own as a separate embodiment.

