---

title: Method, system and apparatus for establishing and monitoring sessions with clients over a communication network
abstract: Systems and methods provide real-time communication between website operators and website visitors including monitoring, gathering, managing and sharing of information. The features include: simultaneous chatting with system's website visitor while responding/submitting tickets/emails and searching through company knowledge base; operator communicating message to another operator directly in active chat session, while message remains hidden to visitors/customers; displaying advertising messages to visitors/customers within chat window during active chat sessions; growing knowledge base by adding information into knowledge base during chat session; providing real-time access to system's website visitor information by seeing the content of visitor's shopping cart or by passing information from system's server into visitor's information located in operator's panel; creating and branding multiple chat windows and selectively linking all or some to the account; tagging and grouping each chat sessions; parent-child ticketing for project management; lead scoring; and mobile live chatting.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09584375&OS=09584375&RS=09584375
owner: LiveHelpNow, LLC
number: 09584375
owner_city: Bethlehem
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20151012
---
This application is a continuation application of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 328 691 filed Dec. 16 2011 which claims benefit under 35 U.S.C. 119 e of U.S. provisional patent application Ser. No. 61 424 486 filed Dec. 17 2010 the disclosures of which including all of the attachments filed therewith on Dec. 17 2010 are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety.

The invention is generally in the field of web based computing and communication and provides systems and methods for real time communication between website operators and visitors to a website including monitoring gathering managing and sharing of information.

Providing requested information to users via the Internet is well known. In many instances the information is provided in response to a user s request for information such as requests for information from customers entering a retailer s website and seeking information about a product advertised on the retailer s website. Conventionally a response to such a request is not communicated back to the customer in real time but via for example a reply email sent much later with the only alternative for receiving real time communication or support is calling the retailer directly.

Accordingly one of the drawbacks of conventional web based customer support is the delay in response. In addition conventionally visitors to a retailer s web site are not engaged in a live real time interaction with the retailer as would be the case in a brick and mortar store which may decrease the retailer s chances for promoting and selling its products or services. Exemplary non limiting embodiments of the present invention address at least the forgoing drawback of conventional web based systems.

Exemplary embodiments of the present invention address at least the above drawbacks and or disadvantages and provide at least the advantages described below.

An exemplary embodiment of the present invention provides system and method allowing an operator to simultaneously chat with a visitor to the operator s website while responding submitting tickets emails and searching through the company knowledge base articles for information.

Another exemplary embodiment of the present invention provides system and method allowing implementation of a whisper technology or ability for operator to communicate a message to another operator directly in the active chat session this message will remain hidden to the visitors customers.

Yet another exemplary embodiment of the present invention provides system and method for facilitating billboards or an ability to display a series of scrolling advertising messages to visitors customers within the chat window during active chat sessions.

Yet another exemplary embodiment of the present invention provides system and method for knowledge base intelligent growth which allows operators to add articles directly into the knowledge base module by clicking on a link in a chat session and within ticket entries.

Yet another exemplary embodiment of the present invention provides system and method for API Integration which provides capability to pick up real time information from a system s website visitor by seeing the content of a visitor s shopping cart or by passing information from the systems server into the visitor s information located in the operator s panel.

Yet another exemplary embodiment of the present invention provides system and method that include multiple chat windows which facilitates the ability to create and brand multiple chat windows and selectively link all or some them to the same account.

Yet another exemplary embodiment of the present invention provides system and method that include chat tagging which facilitates the ability to tag each chat session and group thusly tagged chat sessions for example by any selected or assigned categories.

Yet another exemplary embodiment of the present invention provides system and method including parent child ticketing for project management which allows an unresolved ticket to be broken into subordinate tickets to facilitate management of complex tasks.

Yet another exemplary embodiment of the present invention provides system and method including lead scoring which assigns a percentage score to each unique website visitor based on a combination of identifiable visitor data and specific visitor actions.

Yet another exemplary embodiment of the present invention provides system and method including mobile live chat between an operator agent and a client customer.

Exemplary embodiments of the present invention are described below with reference to the drawing figures showing illustrative examples of structure and functionality through screen captures of a user interface at different stages or modes of operation. Such exemplary implementations are not intended to limit the scope of the present invention which is defined in the appended claims.

Thus the matters defined in the following description such as a detailed construction as well as certain terminology and elements are provided to assist in a comprehensive understanding of the invention not to limit the scope thereof. Accordingly those of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that various changes and modifications of the embodiments described herein can be made without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention. Also well known functions or constructions are omitted for clarity and conciseness.

Exemplary embodiments of the present invention provide methods systems and apparatuses for monitoring and conducting real time communication over a communication network using computer implemented web based interactive sessions with visitors to a website through features which are described in more detail below such as live chat email ticket queue support and self service internal and external knowledge base.

According to exemplary implementations of the present invention real time interactive communication and support incorporate a computerized live chat system according to embodiments of the present invention installed with any website or Internet Intranet application providing at least the benefit of answering client customer inquiries via a live chat session on a computer for example PC Mac or mobile communication device . Further exemplary implementations for the present invention provide for incorporating billboard advertising along with a live chat session with a visitor to a website where a visitor can be a client customer of the website s owner agent or operator.

Thus exemplary embodiments and or implementations of the present invention relate to novel techniques that organizations can use for their website operators agents to provide support to clients customers via a computerized real time interactive sessions such as live chat and others in accordance with exemplary embodiments of the present invention as follows.

An exemplary embodiment of the present inventions provides system and method allowing an operator to simultaneously chat with a visitor to the operator s website while responding submitting tickets emails and searching through the company knowledge base articles for information.

Referring to an example of a graphical user interface according to an embodiment of the present invention provides a main operator panel exemplifying multitasking. An operator can monitor activity of visitors and or chats in real time. For example the panel provides for chatting with multiple clients customers concurrently with for example tickets emails and search or update and or updating the company knowledge base simultaneously. The live chat enables file transmission chat transfer and remote assistance with greater ease than traditional systems. The operator panel features a public API which allows for full integration with third party systems.

According to an exemplary implementation the ability to chat with visitors customers is provided to operators simultaneously as they use any or every software module including the ticket callback and knowledge base modules.

For example as an operator replies to a ticket using the ticket module the chat window remains on screen so that an ongoing chat session can be maintained while answering tickets. Tickets can also be created on the fly as an operator chats with a visitor customer using the New ticket button. Within the New ticket window there is a link provided that allows operators to transfer the contents of the current live chat session into the body of the ticket with one click. The chat window remains in the same location across the operator panel in all modules allowing the operator to multi task.

According to another example operators can manage multiple chat sessions within the visitors chats module using color coded status icons that indicate whether a visitor customer is currently browsing gray waiting for chat red waiting for operator response yellow operator waiting for visitor response green or has previously chatted has been invited to chat by an operator blue . During active chat sessions the waiting for operator response yellow operator waiting for visitor response green icons are utilized to focus an operator s attention on visitors customers who are waiting for the operator s response allowing the operator to switch between chats efficiently and multitask.

According to yet another example knowledge base articles are created using a built in rich text editor and content management system. Articles may include text hyperlinks images and video content and are published in a question and answer format. Knowledge base articles can be organized by category can be searched by operators and can be published online for visitors customers to browse or stored as private articles for operators to use internally. All knowledge base articles can be searched in real time by operators using a knowledge lookup button accessible from any module in the operator panel. The knowledge base articles presented to operators in the knowledge lookup window after a running a search can quickly be linked to visitors customers engaged in a chat session using the Article link to chat link located below each article excerpt. This allows operators to give visitors customers quick access to expert knowledge so they can handle multiple difficult inquiries at the same time.

According to yet another example operators also have the ability to search the knowledge base directly within active chat sessions and tickets. Every message a visitor customer sends to an operator in a chat session can be looked up in the knowledge base using a search knowledge link that is appended to visitor customer responses. This search knowledge link is also available to operators as they respond to visitor customer tickets. This functionality serves to speed up the support process allowing operators to quickly enter a query into the knowledge base without typing out any text.

Referring to according to an exemplary implementation of the present invention the following features are provided as part of a user interface 

Another exemplary embodiment of the present inventions provides system and method allowing implementation of a whisper technology or ability for operator to communicate or whisper a message to another operator directly in the active chat session this message will remain hidden to the visitors customers. Whisper technology is a coaching tool which may be used to train newly hired operators more quickly than traditional methods would allow. It also provides the ability for expert operators to chime in on the chats of less experienced operators who for example may not have the skills required to answer complex visitor customer inquiries in full detail.

Referring to an example of a graphical user interface providing an exemplary implementation of whisper technology module according to an embodiment of the present invention which allows a silent without alerting website s visitor connection of a coach with operators agents in real time while the operator agent is on a chat with a visitor for example a client customer . A non limiting advantage of the whisper feature is to facilitate training of an operator agent during a live chat session with minimal interjection from the coach trainer

According to an exemplary implementation any operator can send a whisper to another operator by selecting a chat session that is not assigned to them and typing a message into the chat box then sending it. The operator receiving a whisper will see the text from the message included in line with the messages normally sent between the operator and the visitor customer in the chat box.

According to yet another exemplary implementation whisper messages are highlighted to distinguish them from other messages and a respond link is appended to every whisper so that the operator receiving whispers can easily reply to the operator sending whispers using an internal chat window .

Referring to according to an exemplary implementation of the present invention the following features are provided as part of a user interface 

Yet another exemplary embodiment of the present inventions provides system and method for facilitating billboards or an ability to display a series of scrolling advertising messages to visitors customers within the chat window during active chat sessions.

Referring to an example of a graphical user interface provides a billboard advertising panel for live chat between an operator agent and a client customer according to an exemplary embodiment of the present invention. Further exemplary implementations for the present invention provide for incorporating billboard advertising along with live chat with a client customer. For example a billboard live chat window advertising panel provides up to 10 rotating advertising messages to client customers waiting for live chat session to be accepted or for the agent to respond according to an exemplary implementation of the present invention.

In an exemplary implementation billboard messages are text based but they may also include clickable hyperlinks. Clickable Banner ads with custom graphics may also be displayed in place of text based Billboard messages.

As illustrated in according to an exemplary implementation of the present invention certain features provided as part of a user interface include billboard messages in a chat window . These messages including for example a text based portion with a link and implemented as a banner ad.

Yet another exemplary embodiment of the present inventions provides system and method for knowledge base intelligent growth which allows operators to add articles directly into the knowledge base module by clicking on a link in a chat session and within ticket entries. This visitor customer generated content grows the knowledge base and adds to its utility.

Referring to an example of a graphical user interface providing for knowledge base information between an operator agent and a client customer according to an exemplary embodiment of the present invention. Exemplary implementations of the present invention provide for decreasing a company s customer call volume by publishing searchable and brandable frequently asked questions FAQ knowledge base. For example customers can find answers without initiating a customer service inquiry by accessing knowledge base . The knowledge base can grow directly from live chat sessions tickets and or information added manually according to exemplary implementations of the present invention

According to an exemplary implementation knowledge base intelligent growth is available to operators using the chat and ticket modules. Clicking the add to knowledge base link creates a knowledge base article with the content from the chat session or ticket copied into it. The new knowledge base article can then be edited and published onto a website or stored for internal purposes using the built in content management system in the knowledge module.

According to another exemplary implementation administrators have the ability to generate reports that compile data generated by the system which can allow for to the intelligent growth of the knowledge base. The system tracks every search term used in visitor customer knowledge base queries along with the total number of times each search term has been entered. The number of results found for each search term query is also displayed. When there are no results returned by a search term this output is highlighted in a knowledge base search term report .

Referring to an example of a graphical user interface provides access to the reports related to live chat between an operator agent and a client customer according to an exemplary embodiment of the present invention. For example exemplary implementations of the present invention provide for real time monitoring chat sessions tickets in progress and further provide for reporting from website traffic analysis to operator agent productivity.

According to yet another exemplary implementation the system also has the ability to automatically email reports to a specific administrator operator containing the results from the knowledge base search term report so that the operator can intelligently maintain and expand their knowledge base to meet visitor customer self service needs more effectively over time.

Referring to according to an exemplary implementation of the present invention certain features provided as part of a user interface include 

Referring to another example of a graphical user interface providing for adding articles into a knowledge base directly from a live chat session between an operator agent and a client customer and or from a ticket according to an exemplary embodiment of the present invention allows an operator to click on Add to Knowledge button to add a link from a chat session and or a ticket.

Referring to an exemplary implementation of a graphical user interface provides for searching of a knowledge base while conducting live chat between an operator agent and a client customer according to an exemplary embodiment of the present invention. For example an operator can search the knowledge base associated with an exemplary system of the present invention and provide that searched information to a client customer while engaged in a live chat session.

Yet another exemplary embodiment of the present inventions provides system and method for API Integration which provides capability to pick up real time information from a system s website visitor by seeing the content of a visitor s shopping cart or by passing information from the systems server into the visitor s information located in the operator s panel.

Referring to an example of a graphical user interface providing for live chat between an operator agent and a client customer where the operator panel can integrate with third party systems via a public API non limiting examples of such third party systems include SalesForce and Facebook according to an exemplary embodiment of the present invention.

Yet another exemplary embodiment of the present inventions provides system and method for generating and maintaining a history of past activity or call history where for example when selecting a visitor customer in the visitor grid viewing a ticket or viewing a callback the operator has the ability to see all previously submitted tickets chat sessions and callbacks for the selected visitor customer.

According to an exemplary implementation when a visitor customer entry in the visitor grid ticket module or callback module is selected by an operator the call history for that visitor customer automatically becomes accessible using the call history tab located under the chat window.

According to another exemplary implementation when an operator selects the call history tab a history of every interaction on record with the currently selected visitor customer is listed. This list can include for example chats tickets and callbacks.

According to yet another exemplary implementation entries in call history list the date and time of every past interaction with the current visitor customer and links are provided to view the archived chats tickets and callback entries associated with the call history entries.

According to yet another exemplary implementation call history is generated by searching a customer database for the visitor customer IP address email address host name and cookies from previous sessions.

Referring to according to an exemplary implementation of the present invention certain features provided as part of a user interface in an exemplary implementation of a call history feature according to an embodiment of the present invention include 

Yet another exemplary embodiment of the present inventions provides system and method that include multiple chat windows which facilitates the ability to create and brand multiple chat windows and selectively link all or some them to the same account. This allows one company set of operators to service multiple websites brands or to present a different window to visitors customers depending on the department selected.

Referring to example of user interfaces provide for managing tickets according to an exemplary embodiment of the present invention. For example exemplary implementations of the present invention provide for assigning queuing and prioritizing customer inquiries arriving via email or web page. Other exemplary implementations of the present invention provides for an email ticket management system to facilitate organization of emails. Yet other exemplary implementations of the present invention provide for responding to a visitor s inquiry even if unable to do so while in a live chat by creating a follow up ticket on behalf of the client customer visitor for other agents operators departments to responds.

According to an exemplary implementation each website can have its own unique branding and the chat window for each website can reflect this branding. Each company department can have its own priorities and the chat window that department utilizes can be customized to reflect those priorities.

According to another exemplary implementation chat windows can be added and modified within the administrative portion of the operator panel. Each chat window can exist on its own and can be tied to any number of click to chat buttons internal departments and online domains.

Yet another exemplary embodiment of the present invention provides system and method that include chat tagging which facilitates the ability to tag each chat session and group thusly tagged chat sessions for example by any selected or assigned categories.

According to an exemplary implementation operators are given the option to tag each chat session as they chat with the visitor customer. The chat tags can be used to for example group similar chats together for later review. For example a company may utilize a shipping issue tag to track the effectiveness of their shipping department and log recurring problems so that they can be addressed more completely.

According to another exemplary implementation operators with administrative privileges can decide what categories can be used to tag chats and also decide in what order the tags can be displayed to operators.

According to yet another exemplary implementation chat tags can be displayed to operators in a sliding tab to the left of the chat window. The sliding tab interface can stay visible to the operator until at least one tag is selected for each chat to encourage operators to assign a tag to every chat session. After at least one tag is selected the operator can minimize the sliding tab. The chat tags selected for a chat session can be represented by colored labels on the minimized sliding tab that correspond to the colors of the chat tag labels on the maximized sliding tab.

Non limiting examples of categories that can be used according to exemplary implementations of certain embodiments of the present invention include sales inquiry recurring issue product feature request satisfied customer and unsatisfied customer.

Referring to according to an exemplary implementation of the present invention certain features provided as part of a user interface include 

Yet another exemplary embodiment of the present inventions provides system and method including parent child ticketing for project management which allows an unresolved ticket to be broken into subordinate tickets to facilitate management of complex tasks. Referring to for example an original or parent ticket can be broken into subordinate or child tickets which can then be assigned to other operators to delegate tasks.

According to an exemplary implementation in order to resolve a parent ticket every child ticket created must be resolved. For example operators can have the ability to break up an unresolved ticket or tickets into child tickets. Operators can also manage projects by for example creating a new parent ticket and assigning child ticket or tickets to other operators.

According to another exemplary implementation child tickets can be required to be resolved in a selectable specific order. In such a non limiting example if child tickets are to be resolved in a specific order then the creator of the parent ticket can assign this order when the parent ticket is created.

According to yet another exemplary implementation email notifications can be automatically sent out by a ticket module to the operators assigned to child tickets when a parent ticket is created and to the creator of a parent ticket whenever a child ticket is resolved. If as in the example described above the child tickets must be resolved in a specific order then email notifications to operators assigned to child tickets are delayed until after each one has been resolved.

Yet another exemplary embodiment of the present inventions provides system and method including lead scoring which assigns a percentage score to each unique website visitor based on a combination of identifiable visitor data and specific visitor actions. For example a high score can indicate that visitor is a qualified lead where qualified leads are deemed as more likely to make a purchase. In another non limiting example qualified leads contact information can be passed on to a sales department.

According to an exemplary implementation a website visitor s can be given a percentage score determined by for example assigning values to the visitor s data and actions in a website environment. For example a visitor may receive 20 percentage points because the visitor is located within a certain geographical region for example the United States and another 20 points when they a visitor submits contact information for example in order to receive further communications such as advertising or technical information . In such non limiting exemplary situations a lead score can be calculated and assigned to each visitor.

According to another exemplary implementation operators can customize the scores associated with different visitor actions and characteristics. For example in a percentage scoring scheme when a visitor s score reaches 100 percent that visitor can be considered as a qualified lead and that visitor s contact information is passed along to for example a sales department along with a percentage breakdown indicative of how that visitor reached 100 percent and was deemed as qualified.

Yet another exemplary embodiment of the present inventions provides system and method including mobile live chat between an operator agent and a client customer. Referring to an example of a graphical user interface provides for mobile live chat between an operator agent and a client customer using a mobile device .

The above described exemplary embodiments may be implemented as sets of instructions including program modules to perform various operations on a computing device stored on non transitory computer readable media. The media may also include alone or in combination with the program instructions data files data structures and the like. The media and program instructions may be those specially designed and constructed for the purposes of the present invention or they may be of the kind well known and available to those having skill in the computer software arts. Examples of non transitory computer readable media include magnetic media such as hard disks floppy disks and magnetic tape optical media such as CD ROM disks and DVD magneto optical media such as optical disks and hardware devices that are specially configured to store and perform program instructions such as read only memory ROM random access memory RAM flash memory and the like. Other media may include a transmission medium such as optical or metallic lines wave guides and so on including a carrier wave transmitting signals specifying the program instructions data structures and so on. Examples of program instructions include both machine code such as produced by a compiler and files containing higher level code that may be executed by the computer using an interpreter.

Referring to a system illustrating an exemplary implementation of non limiting embodiments of the present invention can include a computing device for use by an operator agent connected directly or indirectly to a server or connect via the Internet Intranet which includes but not limited to a wide area network or local area network . Visitor can use a computing device to connect to the server via the Internet Intranet . A live chat session between a visitor using computing device and an operator using computing device is established and conducted as describe above in the exemplary embodiments illustrated in the non limiting examples of . In addition either an operator or a visitor can connect to the Internet Intranet using a mobile device to perform a live chat session as illustrated for example in . All of the connections and can be wired or wireless such as Wi Fi Bluetooth Radio Frequency RF cellular and others as known and understood in the art. The described hardware devices may be configured to act as or store on their respective non transitory computer readable media one or more software modules in order to perform the operations of the above described embodiments of the present invention as illustrated in the examples of .

Although exemplary embodiments of the present invention have been disclosed for illustrative purposes those skilled in the art will appreciate that various modifications additions and substitutions are possible without departing from the scope of the present invention. For example non limiting features of various embodiments of the present invention can include 

