---

title: Fingerprint identifying method and electronic device thereof
abstract: A method of operating an electronic device is provided. The method includes detecting a plurality of fingerprint drags after a touch on a portion of the electronic device, wherein each of the plurality of fingerprint drags is a consecutive drag from a previous drag and each of the plurality of fingerprint drags has a different orientation from each other; and identifying a fingerprint based on a plurality of images acquired from the plurality of fingerprint drags, wherein each of the plurality of images is compared with corresponding portion of a reference image.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09569087&OS=09569087&RS=09569087
owner: Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd
number: 09569087
owner_city: 
owner_country: KR
publication_date: 20150326
---
This application claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 a to a Korean Patent Application filed on Mar. 26 2014 in the Korean Intellectual Property Office and assigned Serial No. 10 2014 0035205 the entire contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.

The present disclosure relates generally to a fingerprint identifying method and an electronic device thereof and more particularly to a method of operating an electronic device for detecting a fingerprint swipe and identifying a fingerprint based on an image acquired from the fingerprint swipe.

As information communication technology and semiconductor technology advance various electronic devices have been developed into multimedia devices for providing diverse multimedia services. For example an electronic device can provide various multimedia services such as a messenger service broadcasting service wireless Internet service camera service and audio play service.

Recently as personal privacy has become significant an electronic device provides an enhanced security function such as a lock function. For example an electronic device provides a fingerprint identification function. The fingerprint identification function identifies a particular person by comparing a fingerprint image input to the electronic device with a preset reference image based on a feature that the fingerprint differs from individual to individual.

Fingerprint input methods for fingerprint identification include a method for inputting a fingerprint to a fingerprint sensor using a swipe or a touch. The swipe type is subject to a low fingerprint identification rate because the electronic device compares one fingerprint image input through the single swipe with the reference image. In addition a user must put an electronic device down or use both hands in order to input the fingerprint.

The present disclosure has been made to address at least the above mentioned problems and or disadvantages and to provide at least the advantages described below. Accordingly an aspect of the present disclosure is to provide a fingerprint identification method and an electronic device for enhancing a fingerprint identification rate.

Another aspect of the present disclosure is to provide a fingerprint identification method and an electronic device for enhancing user convenience in fingerprint identification.

Another aspect of the present disclosure is to provide a fingerprint identification method and an electronic device for providing entertainment and various user interfaces based on a fingerprint input direction when the fingerprint is input.

According to an aspect of the present disclosure a method of operating an electronic device is provided. The method includes detecting a detecting a plurality of fingerprint drags after a touch on a portion of the electronic device wherein each of the plurality of fingerprint drags is a consecutive drag from a previous drag and each of the plurality of fingerprint drags has a different orientation from each other and identifying a fingerprint based on a plurality of images acquired from the plurality of fingerprint drags wherein each of the plurality of images is compared with a corresponding portion of a reference image.

According to another aspect of the present disclosure an electronic device is provided. The electronic device includes a fingerprint sensor configured to detect a plurality of fingerprint drags after a touch on a portion of the electronic device wherein each of the plurality of fingerprint drags is a consecutive drag from a previous drag and each of the plurality of fingerprint drags has a different orientation from each other and a processor configured to identify a fingerprint based on a plurality of images acquired from the plurality of fingerprint drags wherein each of the plurality of images is compared with a corresponding portion of a reference image.

According to another aspect of the present disclosure a non transitory computer readable recording medium storing a program which executes a method of operating an electronic device is provided. The method includes detecting a plurality of fingerprint drags after a touch on a portion of the electronic device wherein each of the plurality of fingerprint drags is a consecutive drag from a previous drag and each of the plurality of fingerprint drags has a different orientation from each other and identifying a fingerprint based on a plurality of images acquired from the plurality of fingerprint drags wherein each of the plurality of images is compared with a corresponding portion of a reference image.

The following description with reference to the accompanying drawings is provided to assist in a comprehensive understanding of embodiments of the present disclosure as defined by the appended claims and their equivalents. It includes various details to assist in that understanding but these are to be regarded as merely exemplary. Accordingly those of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that various changes and modifications of the embodiments of the present disclosure described herein can be made without departing from the scope and spirit of the present disclosure. In addition descriptions of well known functions and constructions may be omitted for clarity and conciseness. Throughout the drawings like reference numerals will be understood to refer to like parts components and structures.

The terms and words used in the following description and appended claims are not limited to their dictionary meanings but are merely used to facilitate a clear and consistent understanding of the present disclosure. Accordingly it should be apparent to those skilled in the art that the following description of embodiments of the present disclosure is provided for illustration purposes only and not for the purpose of limiting the present disclosure as defined by the appended claims and their equivalents.

It is to be understood that the singular forms a an and the include plural referents unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. Thus for example a reference to a component surface includes a reference to one or more of such surfaces.

By the term substantially it is indicated that the recited characteristic parameter or value need not be achieved exactly but that deviations or variations including for example tolerances measurement error measurement accuracy limitations and other factors known to those skilled in the art may occur in amounts that do not preclude the effect the characteristic was intended to provide.

The terms used herein are merely used to describe certain embodiments of the present disclosure and are not intended to limit the present disclosure. An expression used in the singular encompasses the expression of the plural unless it has a clearly different meaning in the context. The terms such as include and or have may be construed to denote a certain characteristic number step operation constituent element component or a combination thereof but may not be construed to exclude the existence of or a possibility of addition of one or more other characteristics numbers steps operations constituent elements components or combinations thereof.

Although terms including ordinal numbers such as first and second and the like may be used to describe various components such components are not limited by the above terms. The above terms are used only to distinguish one component from another. For example a first component may be referred to as a second component without departing from the scope of the present disclosure and likewise a second component may be referred to as a first component. The term of and or encompasses a combination of plural items or any one of the plural items.

In the case according to which a component is referred to as being connected to or accessed by another component it should be understood that not only the component is directly connected to or accessed by the other component but also there may exist another component between them. Meanwhile in the case according to which a component is referred to as being directly connected to or directly accessed by another component it should be understood that there is no component there between.

Unless defined otherwise all terms used herein have the same meanings as commonly understood by those skilled in the art. Such terms as those defined in a generally used dictionary are to be interpreted to have the meanings equal to the contextual meanings in the relevant field of art and are not to be interpreted to have ideal or excessively formal meanings unless clearly defined in the present specification.

An electronic device according to an embodiment of the present disclosure can be a device having fingerprint identification functionality. For example an electronic device can include at least one of a smartphone a tablet Personal Computer PC a mobile phone a video phone an e book reader a desktop PC a laptop PC a netbook computer a Personal Digital Assistant PDA a Portable Multimedia Player PMP a Moving Picture Experts Group Audio Layer 3 MP3 player a mobile medical appliance and a wearable device e.g. a Head Mounted Device HMD such as electronic glasses an electronic textiles an electronic bracelet an electronic necklace an electronic appcessory an electronic tattoo and a smart watch .

An electronic device can be a smart home appliance having fingerprint identification functionality. The smart home appliance can include for example at least one of a television a Digital Video Disk DVD player an audio system a refrigerator an air conditioner a vacuum cleaner an oven a microwave oven a washing machine an air purifier a set top box a TV box e.g. Samsung HomeSync AppleTV or Google TV game consoles an electronic dictionary a digital key a camcorder and a digital frame.

An electronic device can include at least one of various medical appliances e.g. Magnetic Resonance Angiography MRA Magnetic Resonance Imaging MRI Computed Tomography CT X ray system ultrasonicator a navigation device a Global Positioning System GPS receiver an Event Data Recorder EDR a Flight Data Recorder FDR an in vehicle infotainment device marine electronic equipment e.g. marine navigation device and gyro compass avionics a security device and an industrial or home robot.

An electronic device can include at least one of part of furniture or building structure having fingerprint identification functionality an electronic board an electronic signature receiving device a projector and various gauges e.g. gauges for water electricity gas and radio waves .

An electronic device can be one or a combination of those various devices. Those skilled in the art should understand that an electronic device of the present disclosure is not limited to those devices.

Embodiments of the present disclosure provide an electronic device by referring to the accompanying drawings. The term user can indicate a person or a device e.g. an artificial intelligence electronic device who or which uses an electronic device.

Referring to the electronic device includes a bus a processor a memory an input output interface a display a communication interface and a fingerprint sensor .

The bus interlinks the components e.g. the processor the memory the input output interface the display the communication interface and the fingerprint sensor of the electronic device and controls communications between the components.

The processor receives an instruction from the components of the electronic device via the bus interprets the received instruction and performs an operation or processes data according to the interpreted instruction. The processor executes at least one program stored in the memory and provides a service corresponding to the program. The processor detects a fingerprint swipe through the fingerprint sensor and recognizes a fingerprint based on an image acquired from the detected fingerprint swipe. The fingerprint swipe may include a plurality of fingerprint drags after a touch on a portion of the electronic device .

The fingerprint sensor can be included in a home button as shown in . The processor detects the fingerprint swipe on a surface of the home button through the fingerprint sensor . For example the processor can detect but is not limited to a vertical fingerprint swipe of and a horizontal fingerprint swipe of . The processor can detect a fingerprint swipe in a diagonal direction or orientation or in a certain pattern. The processor can continuously detect a fingerprint swipe during a reference time.

The processor obtains one or more fingerprint images according to a number of fingerprint swipes and identifies a fingerprint by matching an obtained fingerprint image and a preset reference image. For example when one or more fingerprint images obtained match one or more reference images the processor identifies the fingerprint. For example the processor continuously detects a fingerprint swipe during a reference time and compares images sequentially obtained to preset reference images in real time.

Upon identifying a fingerprint the processor outputs a fingerprint identification notice using one or more of a Light Emitting Diode LED a vibration and a popup as shown in . For example in response to a fingerprint identification the processor controls any one of a screen unlock function a security setting function an information transport function and an electronic payment function. For example the processor requests a certain number of fingerprint swipe inputs and requests a minimum number of fingerprint swipe inputs for enhancing a fingerprint identification rate.

The processor can include one or more Application Processors APs and one or more Communication Processors CPs . An AP and a CP can be included in the processor or in different Integrated Circuit IC packages. An AP and a CP may be included in a single IC package.

An AP can control hardware or software components connected to the AP by driving an operating system or an application program and carry out data processing and operations including multimedia data. For example the AP can be implemented using a System on Chip SoC .

The CP can perform at least part of a multimedia control function. The CP can determine and authenticate a device in a communication network using a Subscriber Identity Module SIM card. In so doing the CP can provide a user with services including voice telephony video telephony text message and packet data. The CP can control data transmission and reception of the communication interface .

The AP or the CP can load and process an instruction or data received from its non volatile memory or at least one of the other components in a volatile memory. The AP or the CP can store data received from or generated by at least one of the other components in a non volatile memory.

The CP can manage data links and convert a communication protocol in a communication between an electronic device including hardware and other electronic devices connected over a network. The CP can be implemented using an SoC.

The processor can include one or more data processors an image processor and a codec. The electronic device can separately include a data processor an image processor or a codec. The processor can further include a Graphics Processing Unit GPU .

The memory can store an instruction or data received from or generated by one or more components e.g. the processor the input output interface the display the communication interface and the fingerprint sensor of the electronic device .

The memory can store one or more programs for a service of the electronic device . For example the memory includes a kernel a middleware an Application Programming Interface API and an application . The program can be implemented using a program module and the programming module can be implemented using software firmware and hardware or a combination of at least two of them.

The kernel controls or manages system resources e.g. the bus the processor and the memory used to execute an operation or a function of the other programming modules e.g. the middleware the API or the application . Also the kernel provides an interface allowing the middleware the API or the application to access control or manage the individual components of the electronic device .

The middleware relays data between the API the application or the kernel . The middleware can load balance task requests received from at least one application by giving priority of a system resource e.g. the bus the processor or the memory of the electronic device to the task requests.

The API which is an interface for the application to control a function provided from the kernel or the middleware can include at least one interface or function e.g. instruction for for example file control window control image processing or text control.

The application can include a Short Message Service SMS Multimedia Messaging Service MMS application an e mail application a calendar application an alarm application a health care application e.g. an application for measuring an amount of exercise a blood sugar level and or the like or an environmental information application e.g. an application for providing air pressure humidity temperature information and or the like . Additionally or alternatively the application can be involved in information exchange between the electronic device and an external electronic device . The information exchange application can include for example a notification relay application for relaying certain information to an external electronic device or a device management application for managing an external electronic device.

For example the notification relay application can relay notification information of another application e.g. an SMS MMS application an e mail application a health care application an environmental information application and or the like of the electronic device to the external electronic device . Additionally or alternatively a notification relay application can receive and provide notification information from the external electronic device to a user. A device management application can turn on off at least part of a function e.g. the external electronic device or some other components of the external electronic device communicating with the electronic device control brightness or resolution of the display and manage e.g. install delete or update a service e.g. a call service or a messaging service provided by an application of the external electronic device or by the external electronic device itself.

The application can include an application designated based on an attribute e.g. a type of an electronic device of the external electronic device . For example when an external electronic device is an MP3 player the application can include a music playing application. Similarly when an external electronic device is a mobile medical device the application can include a health care application. The application can include at least one of an application designated in the electronic device and an application received from an external electronic device e.g. a server and or the electronic device .

The memory can include an internal memory or an external memory. The internal memory can include at least one of for example volatile memory e.g. Dynamic Random Access Memory DRAM Static RAM SRAM Synchronous Dynamic RAM SDRAM or non volatile memory e.g. One Time Programmable Read Only Memory OTPROM Programmable ROM PROM Erasable and Programmable ROM EPROM Electrically Erasable and Programmable ROM EEPROM mask ROM flash ROM NAND flash memory NOR flash memory . The internal memory may employ a Solid State Drive SSD .

The external memory can include at least one of a Compact Flash CF memory card a Secure Digital SD memory card a Micro SD memory card a Mini SD memory card an extreme digital xD memory card or a memory stick.

The input output interface forwards an instruction or data input from a user through an input output device e.g. a sensor a keyboard or a touch screen to for example the processor the memory the communication interface or the fingerprint sensor via the bus . For example the input output interface forwards data of a user s touch input through a touch screen to the processor . For example the input output interface outputs an instruction or data received from the processor the memory the communication interface or the fingerprint sensor via the bus through an input output device e.g. a speaker or a display . For example the input output interface outputs voice data processed by the processor to a user through a speaker.

The communication interface establishes communication between the electronic device and an external device e.g. the electronic device or the server . For example the communication interface communicates with an external device over the network using wireless communication or wired communication. The wireless communication can include at least one of for example Wireless Fidelity WiFi Bluetooth BT Near Field Communication NFC GPS and cellular communication e.g. Long Term Evolution LTE LTE Advanced LTE A Code Division Multiple Access CDMA Wideband CDMA WCDMA Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS WiBro or Global System for Mobile communications GSM . The wired communication can include at least one of for example a Universal Serial Bus USB a High Definition Multimedia Interface HDMI a Recommended Standard RS a Plain Old Telephone Service POTS and or the like.

The network can be the communication network. The communication network can include at least one of a computer network the Internet the Internet of Things IoT and a telephone network. The protocol e.g. transport layer protocol data link protocol or physical layer protocol for the communication between the electronic device and an external device can be supported by at least one of the application the API the middleware the kernel and the communication interface .

The server supports the electronic device by conducting at least one of the operations or the functions of the electronic device . For example the server can include a sensor server module for supporting the fingerprint sensor of the electronic device . The sensor server module can include at least one component of the fingerprint sensor and perform e.g. act as a substitute for at least one of the operations of the fingerprint sensor .

The fingerprint sensor can include any one of optical thermal capacitive or electric field fingerprint sensors. For example the fingerprint sensor detects a touch or a swipe of a fingerprint and receives fingerprint data. The fingerprint sensor generates a fingerprint image corresponding to a finger touching a surface of the fingerprint sensor . For example the fingerprint sensor generates a fingerprint image corresponding to a fingerprint pattern based on currents varying based on a finger contacting the surface of the sensor.

The fingerprint sensor extracts feature points by reading a fingerprint in a user registration procedure and stores them in the memory . The fingerprint sensor detects a fingerprint swipe and thus obtains one or more fingerprint images. For example upon detecting a fingerprint swipe the fingerprint sensor compares one or more images obtained from the fingerprint swipe to one or more original preset images. The fingerprint sensor can be included in the home button of the electronic device .

At least one part of the fingerprint sensor can be included in the server e.g. the sensor server module and the server can support at least one operation of the fingerprint sensor .

The electronic device can further include a sensor module. The sensor module can include at least one of a gesture sensor a gyro sensor an atmospheric pressure sensor a magnetic sensor an acceleration sensor a grip sensor a proximity sensor a color sensor a biometric sensor a temperature sensor a humidity sensor a light sensor and an UltraViolet UV light sensor.

The sensor module measures a physical quantity or detects an operation status of the electronic device and converts the measured or detected information to an electrical signal. The sensor module can include an Electronic Nose E nose sensor an ElectroMyoGraphy EMG sensor an ElectroEncephaloGram EEG sensor and an ElectroCardioGram ECG sensor.

The names of the components of the electronic device can differ according to the type of the electronic device. The electronic device can include one or more of the components omit some components or further include other components according to its type.

An electronic device can include a fingerprint sensor for detecting a fingerprint swipe and a processor for identifying a fingerprint based on an image acquired from the fingerprint swipe.

The processor can continuously detect the fingerprint swipe through the fingerprint sensor during a reference time.

The processor can identify the fingerprint by determining whether the image consecutively acquired matches a preset reference image.

The processor can determine a direction of the fingerprint swipe and execute an application designated in the direction.

When detecting the fingerprint swipe the processor can display a content based on movement of the fingerprint swipe.

When identifying the fingerprint the processor can execute one of a screen unlock function a security setting function an information transport function and an electronic payment function.

When identifying the fingerprint the processor can output a fingerprint identification notice using one or more of a sound a Light Emitting Diode LED a vibration and a popup.

Referring to the electronic device detects a fingerprint swipe in step . The fingerprint sensor can be included in the home button of an electronic device as shown in . The electronic device detects the fingerprint swipe on the surface of the home button through the fingerprint sensor. For example the electronic device can detect but is not limited to a vertical fingerprint swipe of and a horizontal fingerprint swipe of . The electronic device can detect the fingerprint swipe in a diagonal direction or in a certain pattern. The electronic device can continuously detect a fingerprint swipe during a reference time.

In step the electronic device identifies a fingerprint based on the image obtained from the fingerprint swipe. The electronic device can acquire one or more fingerprint images according to the number of the fingerprint swipes and identify the fingerprint by matching the acquired fingerprint image to a preset reference image. For example when the one or more acquired fingerprint images match one or more reference images the electronic device identifies the fingerprint. The electronic device can continuously detect the fingerprint swipe during the reference time and match the images sequentially acquired with the preset reference images in real time.

After identifying a fingerprint the electronic device outputs a fingerprint identification notice using one or more of an LED a vibration and a popup as shown in . For example in response to a fingerprint identification the electronic device controls any one of a screen unlock function a security setting function an information transport function and an electronic payment function. For example an electronic device can request a certain number of fingerprint swipe inputs and request a minimum number of fingerprint swipe inputs for enhancing the fingerprint identification rate.

Referring to the electronic device continuously detects a fingerprint swipe for a reference time in step . The fingerprint sensor can be included in the home button of the electronic device as shown in . The electronic device can detect the fingerprint swipe on the surface of the home button through the fingerprint sensor. For example the electronic device can detect but is not limited to a vertical fingerprint swipe of and a horizontal fingerprint swipe of . The electronic device can detect the fingerprint swipe in a diagonal direction or in a certain pattern.

After identifying a fingerprint an electronic device displays a content based on the movement of the fingerprint swipe as shown in . For example the electronic device can gradually display at least part of the content according to the movement of the fingerprint swipe. When detecting a vertical fingerprint swipe the electronic device can vertically display at least part of the content in a certain area of the hidden content . The electronic device can detect the fingerprint swipe and concurrently provide the user with a visual effect or an auditory effect of scratching a lottery ticket. For example although the electronic device can provide but is not limited to the scratching effect for the fingerprint swipe it can provide various effects of cleaning a steamy window gradually clearing an object and gradually blurring an object.

In step the electronic device sequentially obtains images from the detected fingerprint swipe. The electronic device can acquire one or more fingerprint images according to the number of the fingerprint swipes as shown in . For example when the fingerprint is swiped but is not limited to four times the electronic device acquires four different fingerprint images through . The number of the fingerprint swipes can vary and accordingly various fingerprint images can be acquired. The electronic device can limit the number of the fingerprint swipes for the fingerprint identification.

In step the electronic device determines whether the images consecutively obtained match the preset reference images. The electronic device determines whether the acquired fingerprint images through match the preset reference images through as shown in . For example the electronic device determines whether the fingerprint images through match the preset reference images through over a reference rate. For example the electronic device determines whether one or more of the four fingerprint images through matches one or more of the reference images through over the reference rate.

When the consecutive images match the preset reference images the electronic device identifies a fingerprint in step . After identifying the fingerprint the electronic device outputs a fingerprint identification notice using one or more of an LED a vibration and a popup as shown in . For example in response to a fingerprint identification the electronic device controls any one of a screen unlock function a security setting function an information transport function and an electronic payment function.

Referring to the electronic device continuously detects a fingerprint swipe for a reference time in step . The fingerprint sensor can be included in the home button of the electronic device as shown in . The electronic device can detect the fingerprint swipe on the surface of the home button through the fingerprint sensor. For example the electronic device can detect but is not limited to a vertical fingerprint swipe of and a horizontal fingerprint swipe of . The electronic device can detect the fingerprint swipe in a diagonal direction or in a certain pattern.

In step the electronic device sequentially obtains images from the detected fingerprint swipe. The electronic device acquires one or more fingerprint images according to the number of the fingerprint swipes as shown in . For example when the fingerprint is swiped but is not limited to four times the electronic device acquires four different fingerprint images through . The number of the fingerprint swipes can vary and accordingly various fingerprint images can be acquired. The number of the fingerprint swipes can be limited.

In step the electronic device determines whether the consecutively obtained images match preset reference images. The electronic device determines whether the acquired fingerprint images through match the preset reference images through as shown in . For example the electronic device determines whether the fingerprint images through match the preset reference images through over a reference rate. For example the electronic device determines whether one or more of the four fingerprint images through match one or more of the reference images through over the reference rate.

When the consecutively obtained images match the preset reference images the electronic device obtains the direction of the fingerprint swipe and executes an application designed for the direction in step . An electronic device can execute a camera application according to the direction of the fingerprint swipe as shown in . For example the electronic device can determine a display location of an icon of the application based on the direction of the fingerprint swipe. The electronic device can determine a user s grip status using the fingerprint image input through the fingerprint swipe. When the user holds the electronic device with a right hand R and swipes the fingerprint the electronic device can move the icon of the camera application toward the right hand R holding the electronic device .

When the user grips the electronic device with a left hand L and swipes the fingerprint the electronic device can move the icon of the camera application toward the left hand L holding the electronic device as shown in . Various applications can be executed based on the direction of the fingerprint swipe and the icon of the executed application can be moved to the designated location.

Referring to the electronic device continuously detects the fingerprint swipe for a reference time in step . The fingerprint sensor can be included in the home button of the electronic device as shown in . The electronic device can detect the fingerprint swipe on the surface of the home button through the fingerprint sensor. For example the electronic device detects but is not limited to a vertical fingerprint swipe of and a horizontal fingerprint swipe of . The electronic device detects the fingerprint swipe in the diagonal direction or in a certain pattern.

In step the electronic device acquires a first image from the fingerprint swipe. The electronic device acquires a first fingerprint image from the first fingerprint swipe.

In step the electronic device determines whether the first image matches a first reference image being preset. The electronic device determines whether the first image matches the first reference image over the reference rate.

When the first image matches the first reference image preset the electronic device identifies the fingerprint in step .

When the first image does not match the first reference image the electronic device acquires a second image from the fingerprint swipe in step . The electronic device acquires a second fingerprint image from the second fingerprint swipe.

In step the electronic device determines whether the second image matches a second reference image being preset. The electronic device determines whether the second image matches the second reference image over a reference rate.

When the second image matches the second reference image preset the electronic device identifies a fingerprint in step .

When the second image does not match the second reference image the electronic device repeats steps and . For example the electronic device determines whether an N th image acquired from the fingerprint swipe matches an N th preset reference image in step . The electronic device can limit the number of fingerprint swipes for the fingerprint identification.

When the N th image does not match the N th reference image the electronic device outputs a fingerprint identification failure notice in step . When the fingerprint identification fails the electronic device outputs the fingerprint identification failure notice using one or more of an LED a vibration and a popup.

When the N th image matches the N th reference image the electronic device identifies a fingerprint in step . Upon identifying a fingerprint the electronic device outputs the fingerprint identification notice using one or more of an LED a vibration and a popup. When identifying a fingerprint the electronic device controls any one of a screen unlock function a security setting function an information transport function and an electronic payment function.

The electronic device can continuously detect the fingerprint swipe during the reference time and match the images sequentially acquired with the preset reference images in real time. The electronic device can request a certain number of fingerprint swipe inputs and request a minimum number of fingerprint swipe inputs for enhancing a fingerprint identification rate.

A method of operating an electronic device can include detecting a fingerprint swipe and identifying a fingerprint based on an image acquired from the fingerprint swipe.

A fingerprint swipe can be continuously detected through a fingerprint sensor during a reference time.

Identifying a fingerprint is determined when the image consecutively acquired matches a preset reference image.

The method can further include determining a direction of a fingerprint swipe and executing an application designated for the direction.

The execution of an application for a designated direction can determine an icon display location of the application based on the direction.

The method can further include when detecting a fingerprint swipe displaying a content based on movement of the fingerprint swipe.

The method can further include when identifying a fingerprint executing one of a screen unlock function a security setting function an information transport function and an electronic payment function.

The method can further include when identifying a fingerprint outputting a fingerprint identification notice using one or more of a sound an LED a vibration and a popup.

Referring to the electronic device can include one or more AP a communication module a SIM card a memory a sensor module an input device a display an interface an audio module a camera module a power management module a battery an indicator and a motor .

The AP controls hardware or software components connected to the AP by driving an operating system or an application program and performs data processing and operations including multimedia data. For example the AP can be implemented using an SoC. The AP can further include a GPU.

The communication module transmits and receives data in a communication between the electronic device e.g. the electronic device and other electronic devices e.g. the electronic device or the server connected over the network. For example the communication module can include a cellular module a WiFi module a BT module a GPS module an NFC module and a Radio Frequency RF module .

The cellular module provides voice telephony video telephony text messaging and Internet service over the communication network e.g. LTE LTE A CDMA WCDMA UMTS WiBro or GSM . The cellular module determines and authenticates the electronic device in the communication network using for example the SIM card . The cellular module can perform at least part of the functions of the AP . The cellular module can perform at least part of the multimedia control function.

The cellular module can include the CP. The cellular module can be implemented using for example an SoC. Although the components of the cellular module e.g. the CP the memory and the power management module are separated from the AP in the AP can include part e.g. the cellular module of those components.

The AP or the cellular module e.g. the CP loads and processes an instruction or data received from its non volatile memory or at least one of the other components in the volatile memory. The AP or the cellular module stores data received from or generated by at least one of the other components in the non volatile memory.

The WiFi module the BT module the GPS module and the NFC module each can include a processor for processing data transmitted and received via the corresponding module. Although the cellular module the WiFi module the BT module the GPS module and the NFC module are shown separately in at least some e.g. two or more of the cellular module the WiFi module the BT module the GPS module and the NFC module can be included in a single IC or IC package. For example at least some e.g. the CP corresponding to the cellular module and the WiFi processor corresponding to the WiFi module of the processors corresponding to the cellular module the WiFi module the BT module the GPS module and the NFC module can be implemented using a single SoC.

The RF module transmits and receives data for example RF signals. The RF module can includes a transceiver a Pulse Amplitude modulation Module PAM a frequency filter or a Low Noise Amplifier LNA . The RF module can further include a component e.g. a conductor or a conducting wire for sending and receiving electromagnetic waves in free space in a wireless communication. Although the cellular module the WiFi module the BT module the GPS module and the NFC module share the single RF module in at least one of the cellular module the WiFi module the BT module the GPS module and the NFC module can transmit and receive RF signals using a separate RF module.

The SIM card is a card including a SIM and is inserted into a slot formed at a certain location in the electronic device. The SIM card includes unique identification information e.g. Integrated Circuit Card Identifier ICCID or subscriber information e.g. International Mobile Subscriber Identity IMSI .

The memory e.g. the memory can include an internal memory or an external memory . The internal memory can include at least one of for example a volatile memory e.g. DRAM SRAM SDRAM and a non volatile memory e.g. OTPROM PROM EPROM EEPROM mask ROM flash ROM NAND flash memory NOR flash memory .

The internal memory may employ an SSD. The external memory can further include a flash drive for example a CF memory card an SD memory card a Mini SD memory card an xD memory card or a memory stick. The external memory can be functionally connected to the electronic device via various interfaces. The electronic device can further include a storage device or a storage medium such as a hard drive.

The sensor module measures a physical quantity or detects an operation status of the electronic device and converts the measured or detected information to an electrical signal. The sensor module can include at least one of for example a gesture sensor A a gyro sensor B an atmospheric pressure sensor C a magnetic sensor D an acceleration sensor E a grip sensor F a proximity sensor G a color sensor e.g. a Red Green Blue RGB sensor H a biometric sensor I a temperature humidity sensor J a light sensor K and an UltraViolet UV light sensor M. Additionally or alternatively the sensor module can include an Electronic nose E nose sensor an EMG sensor an EEG sensor an ECG sensor an InfraRed IR sensor an iris sensor or a fingerprint sensor. The sensor module can further include a control circuit for controlling the one or more sensors.

The input device can include a touch panel a digital pen sensor a key and an ultrasonic input device . The touch panel recognizes a touch input using at least one of capacitive resistive infrared and Surface Acoustic Wave SAW techniques. The touch panel may further include a control circuit. The capacitive touch panel recognizes not only a direct touch but also a proximity touch. The touch panel may further include a tactile layer. In this case the touch panel provides a tactile response to the user.

The digital pen sensor can be implemented using the same or similar method to the user s touch input or using a separate recognition sheet. The key can include for example a physical button an optical key or a keypad. The ultrasonic input device which obtains data by detecting a microwave signal through a microphone in the electronic device allows radio frequency identification through the pen which generates an ultrasonic signal. The electronic device receives a user input from a connected external device e.g. a network a computer or a server using the communication module .

The display can include a panel a hologram device and a projector . The panel can employ a Liquid Crystal Display LCD or an Active Matrix Organic Light Emitting Diode AMOLED display. The panel can be implemented flexibly transparently or wearably. The panel may be constructed as a single module with the touch panel . The hologram device can present a three dimensional image in the air using the interference of light. The projector can display an image by projecting light onto a screen. The screen can be internal or external to the electronic device . The display can further include a control circuit for controlling the panel the hologram device or the projector .

The interface can include for example an HDMI a USB connector an optical interface and a D sub connector. The interface can be included in for example the communication interface of . Additionally or alternatively the interface can include for example a Mobile High Definition Link MHL an SD MMC interface or an IrDA interface.

The audio module converts voice to an electrical signal and vice versa. For example the audio module processes sound information input and output through a speaker a receiver an earphone or the microphone .

The camera module can capture a still picture and a moving picture. For example the camera module can include one or more image sensors e.g. a front sensor or a rear sensor a lens an Image Signal Processor ISP or a flash e.g. an LED or a xenon lamp .

The power management module manages power of the electronic device . For example the power management module can include a Power Management IC PMIC a charger IC a battery or a battery gauge. For example the PMIC can be mounted in an IC or an SoC semiconductor.

The charging type can be divided to a wired type and a wireless type. The charger IC can charge the battery and prevent overvoltage or overcurrent from flowing from a charger. For example the charger IC can include a charger IC for at least one of the wired charging type or the wireless charging type. For example the wireless charging type includes magnetic resonance magnetic induction and microwave and can further include an additional circuit such as a coil loop a resonance circuit and a rectifier circuit for the wireless charging.

The battery gauge measures for example the remaining capacity of the battery and the voltage the current or the temperature of the charging. The battery can store or produce electricity and supply the power to the electronic device using the stored or produced electricity. For example the battery can be a rechargeable battery or a solar battery.

The indicator displays a certain status for example a booting state a message state or a charging state of the electronic device or part e.g. the AP of the electronic device . The motor converts an electrical signal to a mechanical vibration. The electronic device can include a processor e.g. the GPU for supporting mobile TV. For example the processor for supporting mobile TV can process media data in conformity with a Digital Multimedia Broadcasting DMB a Digital Video Broadcasting DVB or a media flow standard.

The aforementioned components of the electronic device can include one or more parts and the name of the corresponding component can differ according to the type of the electronic device. The electronic device of the present disclosure can include at least one of the components omit some components or further include other components. Some of the electronic device components can be combined into a single entity to carry out the same functions of the corresponding components.

The term module used in an embodiment of the present disclosure indicates for example a unit including a combination of one or more of hardware software or firmware. The module can be interchangeably used with the terms for example a unit logic a logical block a component or a circuit. The module can be a minimum unit or part of the components integrally formed. The module may be a minimum unit or part of one or more functions. The module can be implemented mechanically or electronically. For example the module can include at least one of an Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC a Field Programmable Gate Array FPGA or a programmable logic device for performing operations which are well known or will be developed.

At least part of the device e.g. the modules or the functions or the method e.g. the operations described in the appended claims and or the specifications of the present disclosure can be implemented using for example instructions stored as the programming module in a non transitory computer readable storage medium. For example when an instruction is executed by one or more processors e.g. the processor the one or more processors perform the corresponding function. The non transitory computer readable storage medium can be for example the memory . At least part of the programming module can be implemented e.g. executed by the processor . At least part of the programming module can include for example a module a program sets of instructions or a process for performing one or more functions.

The non transitory computer readable recording medium can include magnetic media such as a hard disk a floppy disk and a magnetic tape an optical media such as a Compact Disc Read Only Memory CD ROM and a Digital Versatile Disc DVD magneto optical media such as a floptical disk and hardware devices specifically configured to store and execute an application instruction e.g. the programming module such as a Read Only Memory ROM a Random Access Memory RAM and a flash memory. A program instruction can include not only machine code made by a compiler but also high level language code executable by a computer using an interpreter. The above stated electronic device can serve as one or more software modules for fulfilling the operations of an embodiment of the present disclosure and vice versa.

The module or the programming module according to an embodiment of the present disclosure can include at least one of the aforementioned components omit some components or further include other components. The operations fulfilled by the modules the programming modules or other components can be carried out in sequence in parallel repeatedly or heuristically. In addition some operations can be executed in a different order or omitted or other operations can be added.

In a recording medium storing the instructions the instructions when executed by at least one processor make the at least one processor conduct at least one operation. The at least one operation can include detecting a fingerprint swipe and identifying a fingerprint based on an image acquired from the fingerprint swipe

As set forth above the fingerprint identifying method and the electronic device can enhance the fingerprint identification rate through the fingerprint swipe. The fingerprint identifying method and the electronic device can enhance user convenience for the fingerprint identification. When the fingerprint is input the fingerprint identifying method and the electronic device can provide entertainment and various user interfaces based on the fingerprint input direction.

While the present disclosure has been shown and described with reference to certain embodiments thereof it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes in form and details may be made therein without departing from the scope and spirit of the present disclosure as defined by the appended claims and their equivalents.

