---

title: Transistor with elevated drain termination
abstract: According to an exemplary implementation, a transistor includes drain finger electrodes interdigitated with source finger electrodes. The transistor also includes a current conduction path in a semiconductor substrate between the drain finger electrodes and the source finger electrodes. At least one of the drain finger electrodes has a drain finger electrode end and a drain finger electrode main body, where the drain finger electrode main body is non-coplaner with at least a portion of the drain finger electrode end. The transistor may also include a dielectric material situated between at least a portion of the drain finger electrode end and the semiconductor substrate. The dielectric material can be an increasing thickness dielectric material. The dielectric material can thus elevate the drain finger electrode end over the semiconductor substrate. Further, the drain finger electrode end can have an increased radius of curvature.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09564498&OS=09564498&RS=09564498
owner: Infineon Technologies Americas Corp.
number: 09564498
owner_city: El Segundo
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150625
---
This is a divisional of application Ser. No. 13 941 335 filed Jul. 12 2013 which itself claims priority to U.S. provisional application Ser. No. 61 674 553 filed Jul. 23 2012 and is a continuation in part of application Ser. No. 13 749 477 filed Jan. 24 2013 which itself claims priority to U.S. provisional application Ser. No. 61 600 469 filed Feb. 17 2012. The disclosures in the above referenced patent applications are hereby incorporated fully by reference into the present application.

The present application claims the benefit of and priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 674 553 filed on Jul. 23 2012 and entitled Elevated Drain Finger Termination and is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 749 477 filed on Jan. 24 2013 and entitled Transistor Having Increased Breakdown Voltage which itself claims the benefit of and priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 600 469 filed on Feb. 17 2012 and entitled Drain Termination for Transistor with Improved Breakdown Voltage. The disclosures of the above applications are hereby incorporated fully by reference into the present application.

This invention was made with Government support under Contract No. DE AR0000016 awarded by Advanced Research Projects Agency Energy ARPA E . The Government has certain rights in this invention.

As used herein the phrase group III V refers to a compound semiconductor including at least one group III element and at least one group V element. By way of example a group III V semiconductor may take the form of a III Nitride semiconductor. III Nitride or III N refers to a compound semiconductor that includes nitrogen and at least one group III element such as aluminum Al gallium Ga indium In and boron B and including but not limited to any of its alloys such as aluminum gallium nitride AlGaN indium gallium nitride InGaN aluminum indium gallium nitride AlInGaN gallium arsenide phosphide nitride GaAsPN aluminum indium gallium arsenide phosphide nitride AlInGaAsPN for example. III Nitride also refers generally to any polarity including but not limited to Ga polar N polar semi polar or non polar crystal orientations. A III Nitride material may also include either the Wurtzitic Zincblende or mixed polytypes and may include single crystal monocrystalline polycrystalline or amorphous structures. Gallium nitride or GaN as used herein refers to a III Nitride compound semiconductor wherein the group III element or elements include some or a substantial amount of gallium but may also include other group III elements in addition to gallium. A group III V or a GaN transistor may also refer to a composite high voltage enhancement mode transistor that is formed by connecting the group III V or the GaN transistor in cascode with a lower voltage group IV transistor.

In addition as used herein the phrase group IV refers to a semiconductor that includes at least one group IV element such as silicon Si germanium Ge and carbon C and may also include compound semiconductors such as silicon germanium SiGe and silicon carbide SiC for example. Group IV also refers to semiconductor materials which include more than one layer of group IV elements or doping of group IV elements to produce strained group IV materials and may also include group IV based composite substrates such as silicon on insulator SOI separation by implantation of oxygen SIMOX process substrates and silicon on sapphire SOS for example.

Group III V heterostructure field effect transistors group III V HFETs such as group III V high electron mobility transistors group III V HEMTs are often utilized in high power switching applications. For example III Nitride HEMTs may be utilized to provide switching and or amplification functions.

Group III V HFETs advantageously allow for power transistors using a lateral conduction topology in which drain source and gate electrodes are formed on one side of a semiconductor wafer or die. In a typical lateral transistor layout for example drain and source finger electrodes coupled to respective drain and source pads may be interdigitated with a gate region located between the source and drain. As the power requirement for such transistors continues to increase the transistors are fabricated with a higher unit cell density. However due to high termination electric fields typically present at the drain finger electrode ends the gate to drain spacing at the drain finger electrode ends of higher density power transistors may be insufficient to reliably sustain a high breakdown voltage.

A transistor having elevated drain finger termination such that at least a portion thereof is non coplanar with the drain finger electrode main body substantially as shown in and or described in connection with at least one of the figures and as set forth more completely in the claims.

The following description contains specific information pertaining to implementations in the present disclosure. The drawings in the present application and their accompanying detailed description are directed to merely exemplary implementations. Unless noted otherwise like or corresponding elements among the figures may be indicated by like or corresponding reference numerals. Moreover the drawings and illustrations in the present application are generally not to scale and are not intended to correspond to actual relative dimensions.

Source finger electrodes and drain finger electrodes are situated in gate region and are implemented in an interdigitated pattern such that gate region surrounds source finger electrodes and drain finger electrodes and is disposed between the interdigitated source finger electrodes and drain finger electrodes . As further shown in transistor has source to drain half pitch i.e. the distance separating center line of source finger electrode from center line of drain finger electrode .

Transistor has an interdigitated layout commonly utilized to implement lateral power transistors. As shown in source to drain half pitch is substantially constant along the entirety of drain finger electrodes . However due to the high termination electric fields which may develop under high voltage operation particularly at semicircular drain finger electrode ends the robustness of transistor may be compromised. As a result transistor may break down become unstable and or fail catastrophically under high voltage operation. In accordance with an implementation of the present disclosure various approaches are described which can be utilized alone or in any combination to ease the high termination electric fields amongst other advantages.

It is noted that as used herein the feature referred to as a transistor may correspond more generally to a variety of specific transistor or other semiconductor device implementations. In one implementation for example transistor may take the form of a field effect transistor FET . For instance transistor may be an insulated gate FET IGFET or a heterostructure FET HFET . In one implementation transistor may take the form of a metal insulator semiconductor FET MISFET such as a metal oxide semiconductor FET MOSFET . In other implementations transistor may take the form of a schottky gated transistor or a P N junction gated transistor or JFET . When implemented as an HFET transistor may be a high electron mobility transistor HEMT incorporating a two dimensional electron gas 2DEG . In yet another implementation transistor may take the form of a Schottky diode not shown in for example through replacement of drain finger electrodes with anode electrodes replacement of the source finger electrodes with cathode electrodes and without the controlling gate electrode of .

Referring to the exemplary implementation shown by semiconductor body of transistor may be configured to provide a group III V HFET such as a III Nitride HEMT. III Nitride materials include gallium nitride GaN and or its alloys such as aluminum gallium nitride AlGaN indium gallium nitride InGaN and aluminum indium gallium nitride AlInGaN . These materials are semiconductor compounds that have a relatively wide direct bandgap and strong piezoelectric polarizations and can enable high breakdown fields and the creation of 2DEGs. As a result III Nitride materials such as GaN are used in many microelectronic applications in which high power density and high efficiency switching are required.

Active surface of transistor includes source pad drain pad and gate pad . In addition to drain finger electrodes and source finger electrodes transistor also includes gate region and field dielectric . Source finger electrodes are electrically coupled to source pad drain finger electrodes are electrically coupled to drain pad and gate region is electrically coupled to gate pad . It is noted that the electrical coupling of source finger electrodes to source pad and that of gate region to gate pad is shown by dashed lines because those connections may be formed using one or more additional metal layers not shown in .

It is noted that in some implementations either or both of source pad and drain pad may be on the same plane as source finger electrodes and drain finger electrodes . However in other implementations source pad and or drain pad may be on a different plane than that occupied by source finger electrodes and or drain finger electrode . For example source pad and or drain pad may be formed on a backside of the device or substrate and electrically connected to their respectively corresponding finger electrodes using electrical through substrate vias. Such transistor designs with ohmic pad source and or drain construction on other planes are described in U.S. Pat. No. 7 233 028 entitled Gallium Nitride Material Devices and Methods of Forming the Same and issued on Jun. 19 2007 and in U.S. Pat. No. 7 915 645 entitled Monolithic Vertically Integrated Composite Group III V and Group IV Semiconductor Device and Method for Fabricating Same and issued on Mar. 29 2011. The entire disclosures of U.S. Pat. No. 7 233 028 and U.S. Pat. No. 7 915 645 are hereby incorporated fully by reference into the present application.

As shown in source finger electrodes and drain finger electrodes may be implemented in an interdigitated pattern such that gate region surrounds source finger electrodes and is between interdigitated source finger electrodes and drain finger electrodes . Source finger electrodes have length and drain finger electrodes have length . Also shown in is source to drain half pitch of transistor i.e. the distance separating center line of source finger electrode from center line of drain finger electrode .

Source finger electrodes have source finger electrode main bodies coupled to source pad and source finger electrode ends adjacent drain pad . Drain finger electrodes have drain finger electrode main bodies coupled to drain pad and curved drain finger electrode ends or tips adjacent source pad . As shown in source to drain half pitch of transistor is substantially constant from source finger electrode main bodies to source finger electrode ends . As further shown in curved drain finger electrode ends are modified in order reduce the electric field at the tips of drain finger electrodes .

In at least one exemplary implementation curved drain finger electrode ends have an increased radius of curvature such as r1 for example resulting in increased width of curved drain finger electrode ends relative to width of drain finger electrode . It is noted that as used herein width is defined as the width of drain finger electrode just before the transition to curved drain finger electrode end . As also shown in radius of curvature r2 of gate region surrounding curved drain finger electrode end is also increased which increases the gate to drain spacing d2 in the vicinity of curved drain finger electrode ends compared to the gate to drain spacing d1 further reducing the electric field at curved drain finger electrode ends . It is noted that for the purposes of the present application when curved drain finger electrode ends are described as having an increased radius of curvature that characterization can apply to either one or both of r1 and r2 .

In some implementations as shown in increased radius of curvature r1 of curved drain finger electrode ends may cause curved drain finger electrode ends to have a generally ellipsoidal shape as discussed in more detail in reference to below. One advantage of implementing curved drain finger electrode ends as substantial ellipsoids is that such a shape can aid in reducing or relaxing the high termination electrical fields that can otherwise exist at semicircular drain finger electrode ends of transistor shown in . As a result increased radius of curvature r1 and or increased radius of curvature r2 as well as the subsequent increase in gate to drain spacing d2 at curved drain finger electrode ends reduces the termination electric field at curved drain finger electrode ends so as to achieve an increased breakdown voltage and reliability for transistor .

In some implementations curved drain finger electrode ends are extended beyond source finger electrode main bodies instead of or in addition to providing curved drain finger electrode ends having an increased radius of curvature. As depicted in curved drain finger electrode ends are situated closer to source pad than source finger electrode main bodies . In doing so drain finger electrodes may be longer than source finger electrodes as shown. Extension of curved drain finger electrode ends beyond source finger electrode main bodies can advantageously achieve an increased breakdown voltage for transistor without increasing source to drain half pitch along length of source finger electrodes . Consequently the exemplary transistor layout shown in can be implemented so as to allow for a tighter source to drain half pitch while achieving increased breakdown voltage thereby providing a low ON resistance and improved robustness for transistor concurrently.

It is noted that although the implementation shown in depicts drain finger electrodes as having increased radius of curvature r1 increased radius of curvature r2 and increased width at curved drain finger electrode ends as well as having curved drain finger electrode ends extending beyond source finger electrode main bodies that representation is merely exemplary. In other implementations drain finger electrodes may not have all of those characteristics concurrently.

In one implementation curved drain finger electrode ends may extend beyond source finger electrode main bodies but not have increased radius of curvature r1 increased radius of curvature r2 or increased width . Alternatively according to another implementation curved drain finger electrode ends may have increased radius of curvature r1 increased width and or increased radius of curvature r2 but may not extend beyond source finger electrode main bodies . Thus according to a variety of possible implementations drain finger electrodes may have length greater than length of source finger electrodes and or may have curved drain finger electrode ends extending beyond source finger electrode main bodies and or may have increased radius of curvature r1 increased width and or increased radius of curvature r2 at curved drain finger electrode ends .

Some of the features discussed in conjunction with will now be further described by reference to . present respective top plan views of exemplary drain terminations having a decreased electric field at the ends or tips of the drain finger electrodes. As further described below such a decreased electric field can result from increasing a radius of curvature of the gate to drain spacing between an edge of a curved drain finger electrode end and a boundary of a gate region surrounding the curved drain finger electrode end thereby allowing for an increased breakdown voltage and a more robust and reliable transistor. It is noted that the exemplary implementations shown in corresponding in general to the implementation shown in .

Continuing to presents a top plan view of an exemplary drain termination enabling increased breakdown voltage corresponding in general to the implementation shown in . shows gate region surrounding drain finger electrode . Drain finger electrode has width and also includes drain finger electrode main body having width . In addition shows curved drain finger electrode end having increased radius of curvature r1 relative to the radius of curvature of semicircular drain finger electrode ends in transistor of . That is to say in contrast to transistor having semicircular drain finger ends radius of curvature r1 of curved drain finger end is greater than a radius of curvature of a circle having a diameter equal to width .

Also shown in is radius of curvature r2 of the gate electrode region surrounding the drain finger electrode end radius of curvature r3 of the smooth transition connecting curved drain finger electrode end to drain finger electrode and radius of curvature r4 of the smooth transition connecting gate region surrounding curved drain finger electrode end to the gate region surrounding drain finger electrode . further depicts gate to drain spacing d1 gate to drain spacing d2 and length of drain finger electrode . Gate to drain spacing d1 gate to drain spacing d2 length and width correspond respectively to gate to drain spacing d1 gate to drain spacing d2 length and width in . Moreover curved drain finger electrode end radius of curvature r1 and radius of curvature r2 in correspond respectively to curved drain finger electrode ends radius of curvature r1 and radius of curvature r2 in .

Continuing to presents a top plan view of an exemplary drain termination enabling increased breakdown voltage corresponding in general to the implementation shown in . shows gate region surrounding drain finger electrode . Drain finger electrode has width and includes drain finger electrode main body having width . In addition drain finger electrode has curved drain finger electrode end with increased width relative to width of drain finger electrode . Also shown in are field dielectric radius of curvature r1 radius of curvature r2 radius of curvature r3 radius of curvature r4 gate to drain spacing d1 and gate to drain spacing d2 as well as minor axis and major axis of curved drain finger electrode end .

Gate region field dielectric and drain finger electrode correspond respectively to gate region field dielectric and drain finger electrode in . In addition width curved drain finger electrode end and drain finger electrode main body having width correspond respectively to width curved drain finger electrode end and drain finger electrode main body having width in . Moreover gate to drain spacings d1 and d2 and radii of curvature r1 r2 r3 and r4 in correspond respectively to gate to drain spacings d1 and d2 and radii of curvature r1 r2 r3 and r4 in . It is further noted that increased width of curved drain finger electrode end in corresponds to increased width of curved drain finger electrode end in .

As shown in curved drain finger electrode end has a shape described by major axis and minor axis . Major axis is longer than and substantially perpendicular to minor axis . As further shown in major axis is substantially aligned with drain finger electrode and minor axis is substantially perpendicular to drain finger electrode .

In some implementations for example curved drain finger electrode end may be substantially an ellipsoid having major axis substantially aligned with drain finger electrode . Curved drain finger electrode end taking the form of an ellipsoid with major axis and minor axis results from forming curved drain finger electrode end and the surrounding gate region with increased radii of curvature r1 r2 r3 and r4 such that r1

Gate to drain spacing d1 is shown as being less than gate to drain spacing d2 . As discussed above by reference to by forming the gate to drain spacing such that d1

In some implementations it may be advantageous for the ratio of increased width to width to be approximately equal to 2 1. In other implementations it may be advantageous or desirable for the ratio of increased width to width to be greater than 2 1. An advantage of using an ellipsoidal shape for curved drain finger electrode end is that such a shape can aid in minimizing the peak electric fields that can otherwise be present at the transition from a main body to a rounded semicircular end termination region of a conventionally configured drain finger electrode such as semicircular drain finger electrode ends in .

It is noted that width increased width and curved drain finger electrode end are exaggerated in for conceptual clarity. Thus drain finger electrode is not drawn to scale. Nevertheless drain finger electrode corresponds to drain finger electrodes in as well as to drain finger electrode in as noted above.

In some implementations further improvements in high current carrying transistors can be realized with higher breakdown voltages and lower ON resistance through use of tapered drain and source finger electrodes which may be implemented in combination with a curved drain finger electrode end having an increased radius of curvature corresponding to curved drain finger electrode ends in respective . Such tapered source and drain finger designs are described in U.S. Pat. No. 7 417 257 entitled III Nitride Device with Improved Layout Geometry and issued on Aug. 26 2008. The entire disclosure of U.S. Pat. No. 7 417 257 is hereby incorporated fully by reference into the present application.

As further shown in width of tapered drain finger electrode main body is larger than width . In other words in contrast to drain finger electrode for which width of drain finger electrode main bodies may be substantially equal to width tapered drain finger electrode has a tapered drain finger electrode beginning width that is greater than width .

A further approach to minimizing the termination peak electric fields is described below with respect to . presents a top plan view of an exemplary transistor having a drain termination enabling increased breakdown voltage in accordance with an implementation of the present disclosure. The portion of transistor shown in can correspond to the portion of transistor labeled with bracket A in . present cross sectional views of exemplary transistors in accordance with an implementation of the present disclosure. The cross sectional views in can correspond to cross section in in different implementations of the present disclosure.

Transistor includes drain finger electrodes and source finger electrode corresponding respectively to drain finger electrodes and source finger electrode in . Transistor also includes gate region corresponding to gate region in .

Similar to transistor drain finger electrodes are interdigitated with source finger electrodes . Drain finger electrodes and source finger electrodes are situated in on or above or a combination thereof i.e. non coplaner semiconductor substrate . Semiconductor substrate can be for example a III Nitride material stack such as a HEMT material stack silicon and or other semiconductor material. Current conduction paths such as current conduction path are in semiconductor substrate between drain finger electrodes and source finger electrodes . Gate region is configured to control current conduction in semiconductor substrate through the current conduction paths between drain finger electrodes and source finger electrodes .

Also in transistor drain finger electrodes have drain finger electrode main bodies and drain finger electrode ends e.g. curved drain finger electrode ends corresponding respectively to drain finger electrode main bodies and drain finger electrode ends in . Source finger electrodes have source finger electrode main bodies and source finger electrode ends not shown in corresponding respectively to source finger electrode main bodies and source finger electrode ends in . In some implementations drain finger electrode main bodies are coplanar with drain finger electrode ends as described by . In other implementations drain finger electrode main body is non coplanar with at least a portion of drain finger electrode end as described by .

Referring to drain finger electrode is shown having drain finger electrode main body and drain finger electrode end . Drain finger electrode is situated on semiconductor substrate . In particular drain finger electrode main body and drain finger electrode end are both situated on semiconductor substrate and are coplanar. Any or all of drain fingers electrodes in transistor can have a similar cross section as shown in . However by configuring any or all of drain fingers electrodes in accordance with the implementation shown in termination electric fields which may develop during operation particularly at drain finger electrode ends can be further eased.

Referring now to drain finger electrode is shown having drain finger electrode main body and drain finger electrode end . Drain finger electrode is situated on semiconductor substrate . In particular drain finger electrode main body is situated on semiconductor substrate . However dielectric material is situated between at least portion of drain finger electrode end and semiconductor substrate . Drain finger electrode end is formed over dielectric material and over semiconductor substrate such that at least a portion of drain finger electrode end is non coplanar with drain finger electrode main body . Furthermore dielectric material insulates drain finger electrode end from semiconductor substrate thereby further easing termination electric fields which may develop at drain finger electrode end . Thus transistor can have an even higher breakdown voltage and a lower on resistance when using the drain finger termination topology shown in .

Examples of dielectric material include one or more dielectrics such as any combination of silicon nitride silicon oxide oxynitride or other insulating material. In certain implementations dielectric material includes tetraethyl orthosilicate TEOS . The dielectrics may be provided in layers such as in a dielectric stack or may be provided by a combination of similar or dissimilar materials.

In some implementations dielectric material is of a substantially uniform thickness. However in the implementation shown in dielectric material is an increasing thickness dielectric material. By configuring the thickness of dielectric material the easing of the termination electric fields can be controlled for example by gradually increasing the insulation thickness along the length of drain finger electrode end between drain finger electrode end and semiconductor substrate .

Dielectric material may be situated at least partially in semiconductor substrate . For example dielectric material may be situated in a trench in semiconductor substrate . However in the present implementation dielectric material is situated on and over semiconductor substrate . In doing so drain finger electrode end has increased elevation and is non coplanar relative to drain finger electrode main body . Increased elevation increases with the increasing thickness of dielectric material .

Thus present another approach which can be utilized to enhance performance of a semiconductor device such as a transistor or a diode. As such this approach may be applied to a device such as transistor in without utilizing other approaches described herein. Alternatively any the aforementioned approaches can be employed. For example as shown in any of drain finger electrodes ends can have an increased radius of curvature. Furthermore any of drain finger electrode ends can extend beyond any of source finger electrode main bodies as shown. Also any of drain finger electrode ends can be a tapered drain finger electrode not shown in .

In accordance with various implementations disclosed by the present application termination electric fields at drain finger electrode ends can be reduced. As a result disclosed implementations achieve an increased breakdown voltage. The implementations disclosed herein can achieve the increased breakdown voltage while concurrently maintaining a low specific ON resistance on resistance in the active area through a shorter source to drain half pitch.

From the above description it is manifested that various techniques can be used for implementing the concepts described in the present application without departing from the scope of those concepts. Moreover while the concepts have been described with specific reference to certain implementations a person of ordinary skill in the art would recognize that changes can be made in form and detail without departing from the scope of those concepts. As such the described implementations are to be considered in all respects as illustrative and not restrictive. It should also be understood that the present application is not limited to the particular implementations described above but many rearrangements modifications and substitutions are possible without departing from the scope of the present disclosure.

