---

title: Multiple advertising systems integrated using a video link aggregation system
abstract: Methods and systems for presentation of content to provide personalized video feeds to a user. A plurality of service feeds comprising a plurality of feed items are acquired by an aggregation system. The aggregation system identifies a first server to provide a first advertisement and a second server to provide a second advertisement, based on a first feed item and a second feed item of the plurality of feed items. The first advertisement and the second advertisement are presented to the user with the first feed item and the second feed item.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09451309&OS=09451309&RS=09451309
owner: Frequency IP Holdings, LLC
number: 09451309
owner_city: Los Angeles
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150226
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 938 315 filed Jul. 10 2013 entitled INTEGRATED ADVERTISING IN VIDEO LINK AGGREGATION SYSTEM which application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 717 597 filed on Dec. 17 2012 entitled AUTOMATIC SELECTION OF DIGITAL SERVICE FEEDS now U.S. Pat. No. 8 706 841 issued Apr. 22 2014 which application is a is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 469 717 filed May 11 2012 entitled TWO STAGE PROCESSED VIDEO LINK AGGREGATION SYSTEM now U.S. Pat. No. 8 613 015 issued Dec. 17 2013 which application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 460 305 filed Apr. 30 2012 entitled MULTIPLE CAROUSEL SELECTIVE DIGITAL SERVICE FEEDS now U.S. Pat. No. 8 566 722 issued Oct. 22 2013 which is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 296 183 filed Nov. 14 2011 entitled CREATION AND PRESENTATION OF SELECTIVE DIGITAL CONTENT FEEDS now U.S. Pat. No. 8 583 759 issued Nov. 12 2013 which is a continuation of PCT US2011 034653 filed Apr. 29 2011 entitled CREATION AND PRESENTATION OF SELECTIVE DIGITAL CONTENT FEEDS and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 296 183 filed Nov. 14 2011 is related by priority to Australian Patent Application Serial No. 2011202182 filed Apr. 29 2011 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 938 315 filed Jul. 10 2013 is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 469 717 filed May 11 2012 which is a continuation of PCT US2012 035854 filed Apr. 30 2012 entitled MULTIPLE CAROUSEL SELECTIVE DIGITAL SERVICE FEEDS which is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 296 183 filed Nov. 14 2011 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 717 597 filed on Dec. 17 2012 is a non provisional of U.S. Patent Application No. 61 733 870 filed on Dec. 5 2012 entitled AUTOMATIC SELECTION OF DIGITAL SERVICE FEEDS all of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

This application relates in general to creation of and presentation of selective digital service feeds and but not by way of limitation to creation of and presentation of selective digital service feeds comprising primarily or exclusively video and video related content.

There are many services available to users through the use of the Internet including websites other Internet sites publishing services media services data services information services electronic commerce services electronic transaction services payment services software and content download services communications services other remotely accessed sites and services and other digital sites centers destinations or systems whether shared or dedicated public or private institutional or personal fixed or mobile wired or wireless and whether accessed through a browser mini browser embedded browser application other software program or other interface. Examples of popular Internet services in widespread use today include but are not limited to content websites that may include primarily video or audio content primarily text and graphics including photographs content or a mixture of several content and media types including websites such as CNN.com Politico.com HuffingtonPost.com NYTimes.com and others video publishing websites such as YouTube DailyMotion Metacafe and others entertainment content services such as Netflix Pandora Hulu Zynga social networking sites such as Facebook Twitter and MySpace and many others.

Digital content provided by Internet services can include any of all of or any combination of proprietary content exclusively or non exclusively licensed content syndicated content member provided content user provided content system generated content messages or emails from one or more users to one or more other users social content comments ratings embedded links to other digital content tags maps locations time and date content user identifiers source identifiers and other related or unrelated content. The hyperlinked structure of the World Wide Web and the Hypertext Transfer Protocol the advanced capabilities of modern web browsers the ability built into an increasing range of modern user devices to execute programs the flexibility inherent in application software developed and delivered to user devices the rise of common platforms that support both broadly deployed and more narrowly focused functionality across many discrete Internet services and the ability to stream data and content from to and among users and Internet services in realtime or near realtime individually and collectively have increasingly allowed Internet services to create content and data feeds that are simple complex or compound and include as many or as few diverse components as is desired.

A user may use more than one Internet service sequentially concurrently or simultaneously may use different Internet services with different degrees of interest intensity frequency sophistication depth of knowledge of the service and or skill and may vary her selection and mix of services from time to time or over time according to tasks and interests because of the Internet service choices of others according to her choice of device at the moment or over time or for other reasons.

Users increasingly use devices other than or in addition to browser equipped personal computers to access Internet services including SMS capable and other mobile phones web equipped mobile phones smartphones Internet ready television sets digital set top boxes DVD and Blu Ray players digital video recorders videogame consoles tablets such as the iPad and other devices. These devices exhibit a wide array of form factors memory storage displays output interfaces user input interfaces and devices and other peripherals and components. Users may have preferences and habits that influence or determine the choice of device for a given purpose for a given time and place or for a given mode of use because of or regardless of such device aspects.

There are numerous standards available for use in browsers browser equipped personal computers and the numerous other devices used by users to access Internet services. These standards are sometimes deployed in mass production products before being finally determined at different times for different products in heterogeneous technical implementations and with varying degrees of completeness they often evolve over time at times discontinuously and they fluctuate in popularity. As a result devices are not always technically uniform and not all such standards are supported by all device and component providers. For example some browsers support HTML5 and some browsers do not different HTML5 ready browsers support different media standards e.g. when rendering content identified with the tag some support H.264 whereas others support WebM or another video codec some devices support Adobe Flash while some devices do not e.g. Apple iPhone and iPad do not or one set top box may support MPEG2 video but not H.264 video whereas another may support both and a third may support just H.264. In addition there are diverse content security schemes deployed across devices including proprietary encryption schemes consortia based encryption schemes and other encryption schemes and there are diverse rights management and user authentication schemes including consortia based schemes such as UltraViolet and vendor proprietary schemes such as Disney Keychest and Apple iTunes .

As the variety and capability of devices available to users have increased and as user behavior has evolved in response to new devices and capabilities content company strategies have also evolved. Aspects of evolving content company strategies include blocking some or all devices from accessing some or all content modifying or customizing technical versions of content available on some or all devices modifying or customizing editorial versions of content available on some or all devices modifying or customizing advertising sponsorships or other promotional aspects presented in conjunction with content accessed via some or all devices making content available on different devices with different access prices terms user rights and privileges and other conditions and many other strategy variations. Content company strategies and aspects of strategies commonly vary from device to device from content company to content company on a given device and from one geography to another. For example in the United States ABC Disney makes most ABC network television shows available on broadcast television with commercials online with commercials and online for download via Apple iTunes without commercials but at a charge per episode but blocks the availability of these shows on GoogleTV while at the same time it makes most Disney network television shows available on broadcast television without commercials online with commercials and online for download via iTunes without commercials but at a charge per episode and blocks the availability of these shows on GoogleTV .

Most Internet services operate legitimately. Legitimate Internet services may properly obtain rights to content through licensing syndication fair use government permission or other legitimate methods or may produce content of their own or may pursue a combination of these and other methods. Some Internet services however are less concerned about obtaining proper rights to content and may rely on their users to have obtained rights may rely on actual or alleged legal safe harbor provisions or may pay little or no attention to rights questions. The problem of intellectual property piracy has increased as user Internet use has increased.

In various embodiments methods and systems for presentation of content through an interface to provide personalized video feeds to a user are disclosed. A video feed is harvested from feed items gathered at various Internet sources. The feed items are filtered to remove those that do not link to video content. A criteria specified by the user is used to filter the feed items.

In another embodiment a video processing system for providing personalized video content feeds to users from the Internet is disclosed. The video processing system comprises a service feed an aggregation system and a selective video feed. The service feed is acquired from an internet service which is accessible from the Internet. The service feed comprises a plurality of feed items arranged in the first service feed serially. The service feed includes the plurality of feed items that each include a first separately resolvable link to another content item available from the Internet. The aggregation system that is configured to receive the service feed remove from the service feed a plurality of non video feed items that do not link to video content available from the Internet and remove from the service feed a plurality of filtered feed items that either meet or do not meet a predetermined criteria. The selective video feed comprises a plurality of remaining feed items that exclude the plurality of non video feed items and the plurality of filtered feed items.

In yet another embodiment a method for providing personalized video content feeds to users from the Internet is disclosed. A service feed is acquired including a plurality of feed items arranged serially that link to content objects which are available from the Internet with an Internet service. The service feed is filtered to remove from the service feed a plurality of non video feed items that do not link to video content available from the Internet. The service feed is filtered to remove from the service feed a plurality of filtered feed items that either meet or do not meet a predetermined criteria. A selective feed is sent to a user that comprises a plurality of remaining feed items that exclude the plurality of non video feed items and the plurality of filtered feed items.

In still another embodiment a method for providing personalized video feeds to a user gathered from the Internet. Selection of a content feed is received including a plurality of feed items arranged serially that link to content objects which are available from the Internet from an Internet service. A criteria is received from a user that specifies filtering of the service. Those feed items of the service feed that do not link to video objects available over the Internet are removed from the service feed. Those feed items of the service feed that are specified by the criteria are removed from the service feed. A subset of the plurality of feed items are sent toward the user where the subset is defined by the two preceding sentences.

Further areas of applicability of the present disclosure will become apparent from the detailed description provided hereinafter. It should be understood that the detailed description and specific examples while indicating various embodiments are intended for purposes of illustration only and are not intended to necessarily limit the scope of the disclosure.

Methods and systems for presentation of content through an interface to provide personalized video feeds to a user are disclosed. The video feeds are harvested from feed items gathered at various Internet sources. Those video feeds are referenced by icons or channels that rotate about or scroll or move within a first carousel. Video feeds are arranged in columns and or rows that rotate about or scroll or move within a second carousel. Movement in one carousel causes movement in the other in a synchronous manner even though the movement may be at different speeds.

In another embodiment a content presentation interface for providing personalized video feeds to users from a variety of Internet sources is disclosed. The content presentation interface comprises a first carousel comprising a number of pointers to a number of video feeds and a second carousel comprising rows or columns. Each of the number of video feeds is acquired from Internet services accessible with the Internet. Each of the number of video feeds includes a number of feed items. Each of the number of feed items is defined by a separately resolvable universal resource indicator URI to another content item available with the Internet. The second carousel comprises rows or columns that each reference a number feed items of the number of video feeds. The first carousel and second carousel rotate as a function of movement of the other.

In yet another embodiment a method for presenting content through an interface to provide personalized video feeds to a user from various Internet sources is disclosed. A number of pointers to a number of video feeds is produced where each video feed is acquired from Internet services accessible with the Internet and includes a number of feed items. Each video feed item is defined by a separately resolvable universal resource indicator URI to another content item available with the Internet. The number of pointers are programmed to display along a first carousel in the interface for the user. A number of video feeds that each reference a number of feed items are produced. Causing arrangement of the number of video feeds in a second carousel. Each of the number of video feeds is arranged in a column or row. The first carousel and second carousel are programmed to rotate as a function of movement of the other.

In still another embodiment a method for presenting content through an interface to provide personalized video feeds to a user from various Internet sources is disclosed. A number of pointers to a number of video feeds is provided. Each video feed is acquired from Internet services accessible with the Internet and includes a number of feed items. Each video feed item is defined by a separately resolvable universal resource indicator URI to another content item available with the Internet. The number of pointers is displayed along a first carousel in the interface for the user. A number of video feeds that each reference a number of feed items is determined. The number of video feeds are arranged in a second carousel where each of the number of video feeds is arranged in a column or row. The first carousel and second carousel are rotated as a function of movement of the other.

Further areas of applicability of the present disclosure will become apparent from the detailed description provided hereinafter. It should be understood that the detailed description and specific examples while indicating various embodiments are intended for purposes of illustration only and are not intended to necessarily limit the scope of the disclosure.

In the appended figures similar components and or features may have the same reference label. Further various components of the same type may be distinguished by following the reference label by a dash and a second label that distinguishes among the similar components. If only the first reference label is used in the specification the description is applicable to any one of the similar components having the same first reference label irrespective of the second reference label.

The ensuing description provides preferred exemplary embodiment s only and is not intended to limit the scope applicability or configuration of the disclosure. Rather the ensuing description of the preferred exemplary embodiment s will provide those skilled in the art with an enabling description for implementing a preferred exemplary embodiment. It is understood that various changes may be made in the function and arrangement of elements without departing from the spirit and scope as set forth in the appended claims.

Referring first to a primary embodiment is shown that includes an Internet system that aggregates two or more Internet service feeds . shows a block diagram of the Internet system without showing the Internet or other network that couples the various blocks together. shows a functional diagram of various feeds and filters that operate to convert service feeds into selective feeds . Only a single selective feed and a single user is shown but it is to be understood that there are many different selective feeds for many different users supported by the Internet system . An aggregation system selectively and optionally narrows the aggregate of the service feeds into one or more selective feeds and presents the selective feed s to a user viewing with a rendering system device agent at a user location . In this disclosure the singular and plural terms selective feed and selective feeds are used interchangeably for convenience clarity and readability to mean one or more selective feeds and should be interpreted accordingly. In the primary embodiment a selective feed is created from the aggregate of service feeds by including only items from the aggregate of service feeds which are contain refer to or otherwise indicate video content. This creates a condensed and video specific selective feed from the aggregate of service feeds . The Internet services are generally operated by third parties e.g. websites Facebook YouTube Twitter .

In other embodiments a selective feed is created by selecting meaning to include and or exclude items which are contain refer to or otherwise indicate one or more media types other than video or in addition to video is created from a single Internet service feed by selecting items which are contain refer to or otherwise indicate video content is created from a single Internet service feed by selecting items which are contain refer to or otherwise indicate one or more media types other than video or in addition to video is created from a single Internet service feed or from an aggregate of more than one Internet service feed by selectively narrowing the single service feed or aggregate of service feeds i.e. an aggregate feed by selecting items which are contain refer to or otherwise indicate video content and based on one or more other criteria including user Internet service user within Internet service source user within source user ratings or rankings user comments keywords tags user tags topic category language other content indicators length format and or codec fidelity such as standard definition 720p 1080p time and or date device or location is created from a single Internet service feed or from an aggregate feed by selectively narrowing the single feed or aggregate feed by selecting items which are contain refer to or otherwise indicate one or more media types other than video or in addition to video and based on one or more other criteria including user Internet service user within Internet service source user within source user ratings or rankings user comments keywords tags user tags topic category language other content indicators length format and or codec fidelity such as standard definition 720p 1080p time and or date device or location respectively optionally through use of a first stage filter or a second stage filter or both or is created from a single Internet service feed or from an aggregate feed by selectively narrowing the single service feed or aggregate feed by selecting items based on other similar or dissimilar criteria respectively optionally through use of a first stage filter or a second stage filter or both.

In the primary embodiment the user configures which Internet service feeds will be aggregated as the basis for her selective feed s and supplies whatever credentials are required in order to enable the aggregation system to collect the configured service feeds . The selective feed is produced from one or more service feeds with optional first stage filtering that are collected into an aggregate feed that may have an optional second stage filter . Some feeds may be specific to her for example her Twitter service feed which although it may comprise the Twitter messages tweets of many Twitter users will contain only those of the feeds that she follows or her email service feed inbound email messages in many such cases the ability of the aggregation system to access these service feeds will depend on the user supplying her credentials typically her username and password for the aggregation system to use. In the primary embodiment a user can provide access credentials for other Internet services either permanently allowing the aggregation system to store the credentials or temporarily the aggregation system uses the credentials for the current session but does not store them or stores them temporarily and can revoke access in effect disconnecting a given service feed from the aggregation system . Other service feeds may be freely available service feeds such as published service feeds for example a YouTube channel or the RSS feed of a website service feeds such as these often will not require any credentials. In the primary embodiment these service feeds can be configured or de configured even though there may be no access credentials required to access or to revoke these service feeds . Other service feeds may be created by or made available to the aggregation system by querying one or more websites or other publicly available or privately available Internet content sources or services .

In the primary embodiment a user creates a username and password or uses other credentials she has created such as her Facebook username and password via Facebook Connect or that are available to her such as her employer assigned username password or other credentials or such as system created credentials including credentials that precisely loosely approximately or otherwise identify her or associate her with one or more services or resources to access and control her selective feed configure and reconfigure the service feeds that will be aggregated to create her selective feed connect and configure rendering systems and perform other control and configuration functions . In other embodiments a user can use other access credentials or methods or is required to use no access credentials or methods to access or to control some or all aspects of her selective feed through the aggregation system .

As described previously in the primary embodiment some Internet service feeds which will be included in the aggregation of feeds as the basis for a user s selective feed such as Twitter service feeds or service feeds from email accounts may consist in part or entirely of items that can be identified to particular users or other sub entities within the overall service feed for example a Twitter service feed comprises messages that can normally be identified with one or more particular Twitter users Twitter accounts or Twitter lists. In addition feed items from an Internet service feed which will be included in the aggregation of service feeds as the basis for a user s selective feed may have other optional or mandatory attributes for example messages in an email feed may have a priority flag a spam flag or one or more other attributes. In an optional aspect of the preferred embodiment a user can further configure a specific Internet service feed which will be aggregated as the basis for a user s selective feed to include or exclude feed items from aggregation into the basis for the user s selective feed based on the user account list entity or other attribute or characteristic of items in the Internet service feed .

In the primary embodiment the aggregation system is implemented as an Internet service and supports two or more users. Accordingly in the primary embodiment the aggregation system collects Internet service feeds as configured for each one of the multiple users of the aggregation system and selectively narrows the aggregated feeds and or video sharing feeds into one or more selective feeds for each user. In other embodiments the system is implemented as an Internet aggregation system that supports only one user is implemented as software deployed on one or more user devices or rendering systems and supporting one or more users of those devices is implemented as software deployed in an Internet network supporting one or more users or is implemented as a feature of another Internet service.

With reference to another embodiment of a diagram showing creation of a selective feed . In this embodiment the selective feed is a function of a video sharing feed formulated by another user and an aggregate feed designed by the user. A second stage filter takes the combination and may select in or filter out certain parts of the feed based upon a criteria specified by the user. The selective feed could include any number of video sharing feeds for optionally combining with an aggregate feed . The user could avoid specifying an aggregate feed in other examples solely relying upon one or more video sharing feeds to create her selective feed .

In the primary embodiment some service feeds configured for aggregation may overlap e.g. if a popular celebrity is followed on Twitter by more than one user of the system in this case the service feed configured for aggregation is only obtained once and can be simultaneously synchronously asynchronously or discontinuously used or re used as the basis for the other users who also have configured that feed for aggregation. In this fashion the aggregation system of the primary embodiment is efficient in its use of resources and avoids duplicate or repetitive processing. Reuse may even be used where credentials are used by one user for a service feed that will be used for another user.

In other embodiments some or all of any overlapping service feeds configured for aggregation are obtained separately for some or all users that have configured that service feed for inclusion in their aggregation feeds . Where credentials are required service feeds could be kept separate and retrieved in duplicate from the Internet service . Separation could be done in some embodiments regardless of whether credentials are required.

In the primary embodiment optionally some service feeds that a user configures for aggregation can be provided by the Internet service individually for that user so that some or all users who have configured that service feed for inclusion in their aggregate feed receive personalized partially personalized unique partially unique or potentially unique selective feeds that are specific to them or that are created expressly for them. In the primary embodiment the user is identified via a user ID associated with the aggregated feed that she provides to the aggregation system and that the aggregation system passes to the Internet service of the service feed to be aggregated enabling that Internet service to configure and return or otherwise send a service feed customized for or attributable in whole or in part to that specific user . In this optional aspect of the primary embodiment the user also provides a password so that the user can be authenticated to the Internet service . In another embodiment a password is not required.

In other embodiments the user is identified by any of all of or any combination of a user ID with or without a password association with a specific device device identifier MAC address or other attribute or data element associated with a device association with a network address network identifier telephone number or other attribute or data element associated with a network association with content a set of content a pattern of content viewed a content access characteristic a set of content access characteristics or a pattern of content access characteristics association with a stored identifier such as an Internet browser cookie a Flash local shared object or a similar file association with a derived identifier such as a device fingerprint comprising one or more aspects of the user s device and or device software association with biometric information association with a usage pattern or characteristics or association through another method of identifying a user or a user s association with a feed provider.

In the primary embodiment while most service feeds configured for aggregation are service feeds additional feeds can optionally be configured for aggregation that provide data sound music or other information rather than video content to the aggregation system . This data or other information can be used by the aggregation system in the optional creation of algorithmically created filtered or alternatively sequenced feeds for example a data feed of a user s fantasy sports league rosters could be configured for aggregation and the aggregation system could then use the information it receives about the user s fantasy sports roster as a basis for identifying items for filtering items contained within in or alternatively sequencing the items in the user s selective feed in this optional embodiment if and as the provided data or other information changed the content of filtering of or sequencing of the items contained in the selective feed would change accordingly.

Referring next to a block diagram of an embodiment of an aggregation system is shown. There are various stores of information that may be in a database file system and or memory data structure specifically Service feed items aggregate feed items selective feed items service credentials and feed filters . The information in the various stores can be combined into a single store or divided between a number of stores at a number of locations. The aggregation system includes application software running on one or more hardware servers in one or more locations.

The aggregation engine manages processing of information within the aggregation system. Service interfaces periodically check the various Internet services for new Service feed items . Service credentials are stored when and if the service credentials are provided by users and used by the service interfaces where required by the Internet services . Service feed items are processed and stored. In some cases Service feed items can be pushed to the aggregation engine without the need to query for Service feed items by the Internet services .

In another embodiment one or more Internet services send transmit or otherwise provide Service feed items to the aggregation system accessing an Application Programming Interface API or other interface mechanism to provide feed items associated content metadata extracts or highlights and any other information related to the service feed or to individual Service feed items in the service feed .

There can be first stage filters and second stage filters stored as feed filters . The feed processor performs standard filtering to find appropriate feed items but can also apply the first stage and second stage filters as specified by the users . The Service feed items are organized by their source Internet service category sub category subject topic or topics tag or tags genre content rating reviewer rating popularity and or other factors. The aggregate feed items are an aggregation from multiple service feeds specified by a user after any feed filter is applied by the feed processor . The selective feed items are further filtered by the feed processor using any second stage filters .

Filters including first stage filters and second stage filters or other filters can be absolute or can be indicative of proportion or relative weight or degree or can combine both. Thus a filter applied to the aggregate or video sharing feeds of one user could completely block or always include inclusion in the selective feed or a subset of the selective feed those feed items matching the specified criteria whereas the filter applied to the feed of a second user could operate to reduce the number of such feed items but not completely block such feed items or operate to increase the proportion of such feed items but not always include such feed items in the selective feed or a subset of the selective feed of that second user and whereas the filter applied to the feed of a third user could operate to change the position or sequence of feed items matching the specified criteria in the selective feed or a subset of the selective feed of that third user. For example in a user interface such filters could be visually presented to a user as a slider bar where the far left position means always include the far right position means always exclude and positions between the far left and far right mean graduated degrees of inclusion importance or priority.

Once a service interface has found a Service feed item it is processed to determine included video or content link feed service source description of the video or content any reviews or rankings user comments related article s etc. In the various stages of processing all the information that comprises the Service feed item need not be replicated. The aggregate feed can be a list of identifiers that specify which Service feed items to include. Similarly the selective feed can be a list of the Service feed items that have not been filtered out and are specified for inclusion for one or more users .

The user interacts with a user interface to configure the aggregation system . An account is created through the user interface where service feeds are specified filtering credentials etc. Additionally the user can authenticate herself with the aggregation system for example with a user name and password or with other credentials. Content pages are supplied through the user interface to display the selective feed items . The selective feed items can be organized by oldest items newest items most highly reviewed popularity unviewed items or any other criteria or combination of criteria. The user interface may be supplied by the aggregation system implemented in an application applet or app on the rendering system or divided in implementation between the aggregation system and rendering system in various embodiments.

Referring next to a diagram of an embodiment illustrating the logical flow of feeds is shown. In this embodiment there are x service feeds y aggregate feeds and z selective feeds. The arrows show how service feeds are typically logically combined into aggregate feeds and optionally logically combined into selective feeds . For example a first service feed is the sole contributor to a first aggregate feed . The first third and fifth aggregate feeds are identified by the user to be combined into the first selective feed . In another example the third and fifth service feeds combine into the fourth aggregate feed before being the sole contributor to the fifth selective feed .

With reference to a diagram of an embodiment illustrating the flow of feeds is shown. This embodiment adds user defined filtering through first stage filters and second stage filters . These filters are in addition to standard filters that screen for feed items that are of a particular type for example video feed items are screened to exclude items that have no video. In one example the fifth service feed is provided to fourth and fifth aggregate feeds . A first stage filter on prior to the fifth aggregate feed may select for or screen out any Service feed items relating to a particular subject or with a particular characteristic for example HD video or with a keyword or tag of Charlie Sheen . In another example the second aggregate feed is provided to both the first and second selective feeds with only the second selective feed filtering the input aggregate feed items .

Referring next to a process for gathering feed items is shown for the primary embodiment. The depicted portion of the process begins in block where the service interfaces gather Service feed items . Any needed service credentials are used to get access to the service feeds . In block the service feeds chosen by the various users are gathered by the service interfaces . Each service feed could be checked periodically for new Service feed items . Processing is performed on the Service feed items in block .

Various users have subscribed to the various service feeds . In block the processed Service feed items are routed to the subscribed aggregate feeds . Any first stage filter specified by the user is performed on the Service feed items before they become part of the aggregate feed in block . The aggregate feed items are routed to selective feeds that have subscribed in block . Any second stage filter is applied on the selective feed items in block . The user periodically will access the aggregation system to view the selective feed through the user interface or the device .

With reference to a process that fixes the service feed is shown. The aggregation system determines whether an aggregate feed item from an aggregate feed is itself or references or includes within it video content and if the aggregate feed item is or does processes the aggregate feed item by any of some of or all of the following blocks depending on the requirements presented by the aggregate feed item from the service feed and executed in any order as determined by the requirements presented by the aggregate feed item . The depicted portion of the process begins in block where the aggregation engine identifies and categorizes the Service feed item and extracts available characteristics of the Service feed item e.g. any available identifying classifying temporal or system related characteristics of the Service feed item .

In block the aggregation engine determines whether the Service feed item has been previously processed and if it has how recently and in what context. Next it is determined whether a Service feed item is itself a video resource. The aggregation engine determines whether a Service feed item that is not a video resource is a web page RSS feed XML file or other data type that potentially contains within it URLs that are video resources or that iteratively require further processing in block . Embedded executable code contained within the resource is executed in block such as Javascript contained with a web page to obtain content that is normally activated within that resource by a browser or other software client s execution of such embedded executable code and further processes the content thereby obtained. In block it is determined whether a video resource URL or other resource URL is content or is a URL for an advertisement either video or non video and if it is a URL for an advertisement ignores it.

Optionally a module or function of the aggregation engine or a separate system or module associated with the aggregation engine may repetitively access execute download or otherwise activate all of or part of a service feed item web page web page element URL tag other tag embed code other content container or other content indicator identifying itself as a different user agent device type media player type or other component type and or within same identifying itself as having different functions capabilities connectivity characteristics or capacities at each such access execution download or activation in order to receive multiple alternative responses indicating alternative formats protocols structures policies or other characteristics that may be available. Where multiple such alternative responses are available the module or function of the aggregation engine or separate system or module associated with the aggregation engine may store some or all of the alternative responses and optionally some or all of the options associated with some or all of the accesses executions downloads or activations associated with the responses.

A URL in a Service feed item can be redirected and or rewritten when activated. In block it is determined whether a URL is a shortened URL and if it is issues an HTTP or other appropriately formatted request for that URL to obtain the actual base reference URL for further processing. It is determined whether the base reference URL has previously been processed in block and if it has determines whether a modification creation or expiration date parameter is associated with the base reference URL and if one is available determines whether it indicates that the resource identified by the base reference URL has been changed or has not been changed since the base reference URL was previously processed. Where the base reference URL was not previously processed the aggregation engine parses the surrounding resource to obtain metadata such as dates times proper names and other metadata that is potentially relevant to associated with or descriptive of the video resource in block . The aggregation engine optionally parses the surrounding resource to obtain user comments likes ratings and other user feedback or other content. The aggregation engine optionally associates data obtained from the surrounding resource with the base reference URL or base video object in order to aggregate data obtained from multiple surrounding resources in which a particular base reference URL or base video object appears.

Where a base reference URL is available for the URL such as may be the case for syndicated content the aggregation engine identifies whether a base reference video object is available for a video resource identified by a URL. In block a syndicated video resource that has not been previously stored is stored. Optionally one or more short highlights of the video object are extracted and stored in the current implementation of the primary embodiment a single 15 second highlighted is extracted and stored. Optionally the video resource the extracted highlight s or both all are transcoded or otherwise processed into one or more other formats codecs bitrates containers or forms. The aggregation engine stores and associates the data and objects obtained via this process keyed at least by the item processed and by the video resource as a service feed item in block .

In the primary embodiment the aggregation system optionally eliminates duplicate video items i.e. items that appear in more than one of the service feeds aggregated for one or more users while preserving the selective feed item s presence in any of the selective feeds or any of the filtered or narrowed views of any of the selective feeds . In the primary embodiment the user can also add a resource or item to the aggregation system so that the video will be included in the user s aggregate feeds and processed to derive the user s selective feed by providing the resource s URL embed code or other identifier to the aggregation system that item is processed as if it were an item obtained from a service feed .

In an optional aspect of the primary embodiment some Internet services are blocked by the aggregation system so that a user cannot configure such Internet service for aggregation cannot add an Internet item associated with that Internet service to the aggregation system or otherwise designate content from that Internet service for incorporation into the aggregation system this optional aspect of the primary embodiment can be configured to prevent the aggregation system from accessing and or incorporating content associated with or obtained from Internet services that have been identified as being Internet services that consist partially predominately or entirely of content that is undesirable prohibited illegal pirated unlicensed copied or otherwise objectionable. In another embodiment of this optional aspect some Internet services are blocked by the aggregation system for some users based on criteria associated with users or rendering devices or other criteria. In another embodiment of this optional aspect some or all Internet services are configured for content review and each feed item including related or associated content is inspected for a digital watermark digital fingerprint audio content match or other content match to determine whether the specific feed item and its related or associated content is permitted or blocked.

Referring next to an embodiment of a user interface to the aggregation system is shown. In the primary embodiment the user interface for a full screen as opposed to mini browser based user who is recognized by the aggregation system comprises a content navigation pane with navigational and other controls across the top of the screen a presentation of the user s selective feed running in a feed pane beneath the content navigation pane and down the left side of the screen an active item pane for video playback underneath the overall controls on the right side of the user interface an information display showing information i.e. title source and description about the video underneath the video window and a comment entry field and sharing controls beneath the information display.

In an optional aspect of the primary embodiment a user interface for a full screen browser based user is a video playback window embedded in a web page published by a party other than the primary embodiment aggregation system . The embedded user interface could also include a feed pane and or a content navigation pane . Other embodiments could include a feed pane that is overlaid or replaced by a video playback window when one selective feed item is chosen.

In another optional aspect of the primary embodiment one or more data elements or types related to each selective feed item is presented from some or all of the Internet services associated with the service feeds in which the selective feed item was found for example ratings comments likes shares or other such information about a selective feed item . In yet another optional aspect of the primary embodiment one or more data elements or types related to each selective feed item is consolidated from some or all of the Internet services associated with the service feeds in which the selective feed item was found for example likes or shares of a feed item are aggregated from multiple Internet services or ratings of a feed item are averaged or otherwise mathematically consolidated from multiple Internet services .

In another optional aspect of the primary embodiment the user interface and controls are adapted to the display characteristics and data input output capabilities of an Internet connected television with the video playing in the full screen or nearly the full screen of the television display with translucent information related to the video displayed over the video as the video playback window starts and then fading out after several seconds to provide unimpeded visual access to the video controls such as skip to the next video or bring up the selective feed are executed via pressing keys on the television remote. In some cases a playback manipulation control would overlay the video playback window translucently when temporal manipulation of playback is performed and fade away after manipulation.

In another optional aspect of the primary embodiment the user interface and controls are adapted to the display characteristics and data input output capabilities of an Internet connected smartphone or tablet with the video playback window playing in the full albeit in at least some cases physically small screen or nearly the full screen of the smartphone or tablet with information related to the video displayed over the video as the video starts and then fading out after several seconds to provide unimpeded visual access to the video controls such as skip to the next video or bring up the selective feed are executed via gestures made by touching the screen or by pressing keys on a soft keyboard invoked to appear on the screen or by pressing physical keys on the smartphone or tablet.

In another optional aspect of the primary embodiment the user interface is split between two display screens implemented as either two display screens embedded in a single device or as two separate devices. A first display screen could be a television with the video playback window being supplied by internal circuitry or a set top box. A second display screen would be used to provide the feedback pane content navigation pane content information playback manipulation control comment entry field sharing controls and or embedded link control . The second display screen could be an intelligent remote control a smart phone a PDA a personal computer a tablet computer etc. Communication could be directly from the second display screen to the first display screen or through an intermediary such as a set top box or through the aggregation system .

In another embodiment the interface comprises multiple columns of selective feed items all of which may be sorted according to the same criteria or some or all of which may be sorted according to separate criteria implemented as multiple feed panes or as multiple columns of information in a single feed pane . In this embodiment one or more feed panes would compress dissolve or fade shift to another position or otherwise visually give way to the active item pane when a selective feed item is selected for playback.

In the primary embodiment the selective feed is presented to the user in reverse chronological timeline sequence that is with the most recent item first e.g. at the top of a list of items as shown in . In other embodiments the selective feed is presented to the user in chronological timeline sequence in modified reverse chronological timeline sequence where selective feed items are grouped together the selective feed items within groups are presented in chronological timeline sequence and the groups are presented in reverse chronological timeline sequence in modified chronological timeline sequence where selective feed items are grouped together the selective feed items within groups are presented in reverse chronological timeline sequence and the groups are presented in chronological timeline sequence or in a sequence determined without regard to time order. Optionally the selective feed may also be presented in one or more filtered or alternative sequences for example any of all of or any combination of 

In the primary embodiment the videos are played sequentially in the order in which they are presented to the user in the selective feed and if the selective feed is presented in a filtered or narrowed ordered then in that filtered or narrowed sequence. Thus in the primary embodiment and on a full screen browser based user interface e.g. a PC the user can see the selective feed on the left in a feed pane which feed item is currently playing which feed item s recently played and which items are coming up for playback with the feed items arranged in the feed pane as a vertically rotating carousel. In the primary embodiment each item in the running selective feed presented on the left hand side feed pane of the screen portraying the user interface contains descriptive information about the item such as the title description source number of likes and shares optionally other rating information and optionally other information this enables the user to see such information about feed items not currently playing in the video playback window of the active item pane . The user can manually select feed items within the selective feed as presented typically by pointing and clicking on a feed item at which point the feed item begins playing in the video playback window of the active item pane which allows the user to directly access any feed item on demand and begin playback as the feed items are rotated through a list of the selective feed arranged in a vertical carousel within the feed pane . The user can also select the next sequential video in the list of the selective feed by clicking on a button or slider control that advances playback to the next feed item which stops playback of the current feed item and begins playback of the next feed item in sequence. At the conclusion of any feed item s playback when playback of that feed item reaches the end the next feed item in sequence automatically begins playback in one embodiment. Other embodiments could use a Play control to begin playback of the next feed item after the current feed item is done playing.

In an optional aspect of the primary embodiment automatic sequential playback continues indefinitely until the end of the selective feed is reached in this manner a very long continuous period of video content playback hours days weeks months limited only by the length of the history of the user s selective feed can in principle be offered to the user with as much or as little action and resulting control as the user desires. In another aspect of the primary embodiment automatic sequential playback is paused or stopped by the aggregation system after a predetermined point or range based on a number of videos played a total time amount of video played a time interval that has elapsed since the last user initiated action the age of an item in the user s selective feed or other criteria automatic sequential playback may then be resumed upon user initiation or if the user responds to a prompt or system request or dialogue.

In an optional aspect of the primary embodiment the user can perform one or more of the following actions for some or all of the feed items in her selective feed 

In an optional aspect of the primary embodiment the sequence of feed items upcoming in the user s selective feed shown in the feed pane is dynamically influenced changed or rearranged based on the user s actions as the aggregation system progresses through the selective feed as originally sequenced for the user in the vertical carousel. For example as previously described in the primary embodiment the sequence of the feed items in the selective feed is reverse chronological timeline sequence which in this optional aspect may be considered the original sequence of feed items as the aggregation system proceeds through the playback process and the user watches skips likes saves or shares items in the selective feed in this optional aspect of the primary embodiment the aggregation system dynamically adjusts the sequence of upcoming feed items in the user s selective feed to reflect these actions so that the user sees more items that share various characteristics with the feed items she has liked or shared or saved for later viewing or fewer items that share various characteristics with the feed items she has skipped or deleted or otherwise re sequences the upcoming feed items in the selective feed based on her actions. This process can be iteratively repeated based on the user s actions as the aggregation system progresses through the adjusted selective feed further adjusting the sequence of feed items then upcoming similarly based on the user s actions this process can be cancelled or reversed and the user s upcoming selective feed items reverted to the original sequence.

Referring next to the user interface in another embodiment comprises multiple columns rows or arrays of selective feed items Internet feed items keyword feed items aggregate feed items and or other feed items along with an array or multiple arrays of icons in the navigation pane typically displayed above the multiple columns rows or arrays of selective Internet service keyword aggregate and or other feed items hereinafter Feed Items alternatively displayed to the left of the multiple columns rows or arrays of Feed Items or alternatively displayed in another location. Each icon identifies one or more groups of Feed Items such as the selective feed items associated with one or more user accounts on one or more social networking services including the user s own account or another user or group of users or the selective feed items or Internet service feed items associated with one or more particular Internet services for example a news site such as CNN.com or a group of news sites selected by the user or the selective feed items associated with a particular keyword subject or topic such as a sports team or player or the selective feed items collected in an aggregate feed such as recommended items. In the depicted embodiment there are four feed panes that each display a column of selective feed items which is sometimes referred to as a channel or a smart channel herein.

Behind the user interface is a view carousel with three different views as shown in related in a hierarchical manner. The first view is not currently visible to the user through the user interface that displays a window of the view carousel corresponds to the highest level in the hierarchy and allows selecting from multiple selective feeds or other feeds some of which can be an aggregation of two or more selective feeds or other feeds into a smart channel. The first view is detailed in . The second view shows a particular selective feed or other feed in one feed pane with one video playing back in the active item pane . The second view is the part of the view carousel currently viewable through the user interface . The third view shows a full screen version of the video playing back. In this embodiment touch screen gestures move the view carousel for example a two finger touch will rotate the carousel. A single finger touch will move within the current view and not rotate the view carousel .

In this embodiment an icon in the content navigation pane corresponds to one or more columns rows or arrays of Feed Items and the icons are arranged in the same sequence as the columns rows or arrays of Feed Items optionally with more or less icons displayed at any time than columns rows or arrays of Feed Items displayed. The depicted embodiment arranges the selective feed items in a column of a feed pane as shown in . The sequence of icons rotatable about a channel carousel can be moved scrolled advanced retrieved or otherwise manipulated by gesture mouse action cursor control keyboard control voice command or other user interface control. Where all the icons can fit in the content navigation pane the channel carousel may or may not rotate for example in this embodiment the channel carousel only rotates when there are more icons than will fit in the content navigation pane . In a tablet computer embodiment a single touch gesture rotates the channel carousel . In an optional aspect of this embodiment an icon may be linked to a sub array of icons such that at some times when the icon appears the linked sub array of icons also appears e.g. in a drop down or slider tray and as the icon is moved to the edge of the view area of the channel carousel the sub array fades away or otherwise no longer appears.

When the sequence of icons on the channel carousel is moved scrolled advanced retrieved or otherwise manipulated the columns rows or arrays of Feed Items that are visible moves scrolls advances dissolves fades in or out is retrieved or is otherwise manipulated synchronously. Since the width of a feed pane may be different than that of an icon the channel carousel may spin faster or slower than the column carousel such that there may be a gearing ratio other than 1 to 1 between the two carousels . This aspect of the user interface enables a user to for example move the feed pane columns by moving the icon sequence for example by dragging and dropping and when more icons are displayed than columns are displayed gives the user broader visibility into more or all columns of selective feed items Feed Items that are available combined with detailed visibility into the selective feed items that are available in the displayed columns of Feed Items. A scroll control shows with a featured bar which icons have their corresponding feed panes displayed. The icon and feed pane that would be used if the view carousel is rotated is accentuated with a radio dial but other embodiments could highlight the feed pane or icon with bolding enhanced color animation or any other mechanism to inform the viewer the current focus if the view carousel is rotated. The elements may move synchronously such that moving a first element or array of elements causes a second element or array of elements to move while moving the second element or array of elements also causes the first element or array of elements to move or the elements may move asynchronously such that moving a first element or array of elements causes a second element or array of elements to move while moving the second element or array of elements does not cause the first element or array of elements to move or a combination of synchronous movement and asynchronous movement may be implemented.

Both the icons and feed panes are in a synchronized order and each rotate synchronously about carousels although the diameter of a column carousel is larger than the icon carousel . When the user rotates one carousel the other will rotate in a synchronized manner at a predetermined ratio of movement given the differing diameters between the two carousels . This aspect of the user interface also enables a user to rapidly move through all the columns of selective feed items Feed Items that are available for example to quickly and directly navigate to a specific desired column of selective feed items . The feature bar informs the user which feed panes are shown below and also what in the column carousel is visible. In the example of the first four icons are denoted by the feature bar to signal that the corresponding first through fourth selective feeds pane columns . The icon appears both in the content navigation pane and the corresponding feed panes in this embodiment.

Optionally in this embodiment an icon can be deleted from the icon carousel which optionally in turn causes the corresponding feed pane to be removed from view. Optionally in this embodiment the icons in the icon carousel can be reorganized reordered or resequenced by either or both the user or the aggregation system which optionally in turn causes the feed panes in the column carousel to be reorganized reordered or resequenced synchronously with the icon carousel .

Optionally in this embodiment icons in the icon carousel can be combined which optionally in turn causes the corresponding feed panes to be combined or an icon can be separated into multiple constituent parts through filtering which optionally in turn causes the corresponding columns of selective feed items Feed Items to be separated or both. Mixing and separation of icons causes corresponding rearranging of selective feed items Feed Items. Where two or more icons are combined a combined icon may be subdivided into panels that display the icons that are combined. For example the sixth icon combines two icons and the seventh icon combines four icons as shown in . shows the feed pane for sixth icon with selective feed items from both icons.

Alternatively in various embodiments the visual interface can comprise multiple columns rows or other arrays of selective feed items Feed Items along with an array comprising any of all of or any combination of buttons tabs badges keys labels numbers or other graphical elements in addition to or instead of icons any or all of which could be organized in one or more rows columns alignments or other arrays.

With reference to another embodiment of the first view is shown. In this embodiment the selective feed items Feed Items are arranged horizontally in a feed pane . The selective feed items Feed Items can be a list with beginning and end arranged chronologically or in some other manner. In other embodiments the selective feed items Feed Items can be arranged in a circular list as a carousel or in any other arrangement. In another optional aspect of this and other embodiments icons in the tiled icon may correlate to non feed items functions or aspects. The icon carousel is arranged vertically in this embodiment. The feed panes are arranged in a vertical feed carousel that rotates in synchronization with the icon carousel and the scroll control .

In this optional aspect of the primary embodiment this adjusted sequence can be presented continuously with or as part of or as the next part of the user s selective feed or can be presented as a separately labeled and separately selectable sequence of the user s selective feed . Adjustments to the user s upcoming sequence can be provided in real time or near real time as the user advances through or as automatic playback advances through the user s selective feed can be effected between sessions can be effected after a specified amount or type of amount of one or more types of user action has occurred can be effected after two or more user actions have occurred in sequence consecutively within a specified time period within a specified number of user actions in a particular order or in no particular order or otherwise have occurred or can be effected after a specified level of confidence in the applicability of the adjustment s is reached.

In an optional aspect of the primary and other embodiments an icon may be logically subdivided into areas each of which may control activate or indicate a subset of the Feed Items correlated to the icon . Areas can be reserved or prioritized for association with a particular Internet service can be rearranged once associated with a set of Internet services and can be labeled unlabeled or conditionally labeled for example the labels appear if the user zooms the view magnification or appear if the user taps the icon with three fingers. User actions can be associated with different combinations of areas of the icon for example tapping an area of the icon filters the Feed Items to just those associated with the correlated Feed Items. As an example icons on a smartphone might be large and might therefore contain several areas a particular icon might be the social icon which is correlated to the selective feeds and service feeds of Internet social networking services connected by the user the upper right corner or region of the tiled icon might be reserved for Facebook the lower right corner for Twitter and the other corners available for other social networking services if the user taps the word social in the user interface the selective feed of selective feed items from all connected social networking services appears along with a corresponding tiled icon that would be an aggregation of the selective feeds where as if the user taps a corner or region of the tiled icon the selective feed items of the associated social networking service appear. The tiled icon may optionally be configured programmatically by accessing a programming interface available on the device provided by a device related service provided by the aggregation system or a control system related to the aggregation system or provided by another service to connect to social networking services already connected by the user to the device device related service the aggregation system or a control system related to the aggregation system or another service.

In an optional aspect of the primary and other embodiments the contents and characteristics of an icon a tiled icon and or one or more correlated or uncorrelated Feed Items associated with a user are synchronized across one or more devices or interfaces used by or associated with the user . In this optional aspect of the primary embodiment when the user using one device or interface or the aggregation system changes adds or deletes feed to or from a tiled icon or changes adds or deletes a tiled icons that change addition or deletion is reflected subject to any further over riding rules or policies on the other devices or interfaces used by the user subject to any particular presentation which may be different in some or all respects of icons tiled icons which may apply on that device similarly when the user using one device or interface or the aggregation system reorganizes a tiled icon for example changing the sequence grouping or other characteristics of the feeds in the tiled icon that reorganization is reflected subject to any further over riding rules or policies on the other devices or interfaces used by the user subject to any particular presentation which may be different in some or all respects of icons and tiled icons which may apply on each other device . Synchronization of the icons and tiled icons may be complete or partial may apply to all or a subset of the icons and or tiled icons and may apply to all or a subset of the devices or interfaces used by or associated with the user for example a given icon or tiled icon may be designated as specific to a device or interface and therefore is not synchronized to any other device or interface another icon or tiled icon may be designated as specific to device categories e.g. smartphones televisions and therefore is synchronized from one device or interface within the category to all other devices or interfaces within that category but not to devices or interfaces that are not within that category and still other icons and or tiled icons may synchronize across all devices. Synchronization of icons and or tiled icons can be maintained across heterogeneous view carousels so that regardless of the particular view carousel in use on a given device or interface or in a given mode of operation the icons and or tiled icons update appropriately in the context of each view carousel . As the icons and or tiled icons are updated the Feed Items associated with the icons and or tiled icons will typically be similarly updated subject to any further over riding rules or policies on the other devices or interfaces used by the user and subject to any particular presentation which may be different in some or all respects of feed items which may apply on that device. Additionally irrespective of any change to the icons or tiled icons in this optional aspect of the primary embodiment when the user using one device or interface or the system changes the Feed Items for example adds or deletes or marks a Feed Item or changes the sequence or other characteristic s of one or more Feed Items that change is reflected subject to any further over riding rules or policies on the other devices or interfaces used by the user subject to any particular presentation which may apply on each other device. Such synchronized changes may be effected immediately at a point in time after a specified or remaining period of time or without regard to time. Additional rules and or policies may optionally be provided that over ride generally or selectively the automatic synchronization of the icons and or tiled icons for example a user or the system may specify particular icons that appear in any of all of or any combination of on one or more particular devices or interfaces but not on others at all times or at certain times in one viewing mode but not another or determined by other criteria. Synchronization may apply to some but not all aspects properties attributes or features of the contents and characteristics of icons tiled icons and or one or more correlated or uncorrelated Feed Items.

In an optional aspect of this embodiment icons and or tiled icons may appear on a device or in the interface temporarily for example because a user indicated while using an Internet service an interest in adding that service feed to her tiled icon or because an Internet service linked to the tiled icon or as a means of suggesting or recommending a selective feed to the user or for another reason. A temporary icon or tiled icon may expire based on a period of time usage time non usage time or other time based criteria or based on a count or sequence of actions action opportunities based on a count or sequence of actions inactions or events or based on other criteria or may never expire. A temporary icon or tiled icon may appear identical to or may appear different from its non temporary counterpart for example a temporary icon may optionally appear in a different color or size or in a different place or sequence or with a different visual intensity or with different iconography or with an indicator such as a mark or graphical element that conveys that it is temporary. A temporary icon or tiled icon may optionally also contain actionable indicators for example to reject or delete it or to accept or make it permanent or to accept for this device or interface or only. The Feed Items associated with a temporary icon and or tiled icon may be identified in the same manner as those associated with its non temporary counterpart or may be identified in a different manner for example by providing a particular set or a subset of Feed Items may appear conditionally for example based on a user action gesture or other condition or may not appear at all such that only the temporary icon or tiled icon appears.

In another optional aspect of this embodiment one or more icons tiled icons selective feeds Internet service feeds keyword feeds i.e. a feed with screened to include or exclude feed items based upon a topic keyword metadata tag etc. aggregate feeds and or other feeds hereinafter Feeds and or Feed Items associated with a user may conditionally or non conditionally be displayed on the user s device and or within an external interface element available on the user s device such as the operating system web browser another application or home screen other screen sub screen or area on a screen or other device facility. In this optional aspect of this embodiment instead of first installing and or initiating the app applet or application which then presents the icons tiled icons Feeds and or Feed Items associated with the user one of a subset of a composite of or all of the icons tiled icons Feeds and or Feed Items associated with the user are themselves visible on and accessible via the operating system web browser another application or home screen other screen sub screen or area on a screen or other device facility. Icons tiled icons Feeds and or Feed Items may be always be displayed or may be displayed conditionally such as when the user first powers on the device or selects the screen or other device facility in which the icons tiled icons Feeds and or Feed Items are embedded or upon the condition that the user has configured the device to display the icons tiled icons Feeds and or Feed Items in this fashion or upon the condition that there are new unseen items in one or more of the icons tiled icons and or Feeds. As an example in this optional aspect of this embodiment two different users having different tiled icons but otherwise having identically configured devices would each see a different home screen or other screen whereas in another embodiment where only the app applet or application presence is displayed on the home screen two different users having two different tiled icons but otherwise having identically configured devices would initially see the same app presence on their respective home screens or other screens and would only see a difference in their devices i.e. their different tiled icons once they had initiated the app applet or application. In this optional aspect of this embodiment the embedded icons tiled icons Feeds and or Feed Items may also be synchronized with icons tiled icons Feeds and or Feed Items associated with the user across any number of other devices as previously discussed and may include or not include temporary icons and or tiled icons associated with the user across other devices also as previously discussed.

In this optional aspect of this embodiment the integration of the user dependent graphical elements and user controls associated with the icons and or tiled icons can be achieved using any of all of or any combination of a device level programming interface an operating system programming interface an application level programming interface a system level programming interface at the system controlling the device interfaces the system controlling the icons and or tiled icons or both or a system to system programming interface where the system controlling the device communicates programmatically with the system controlling the icons and or tiled icons directly or through one or more intermediate systems. In a further optional aspect of this and other embodiments correlated or uncorrelated Feed Items may conditionally or non conditionally be displayed along with independently of and or without the icons and or tiled icons being displayed.

In an optional aspect of this and other embodiments touching dragging clicking activating or otherwise engaging with one or more of or the group of or a particular one of or subset of the displayed icons tiled icons and or Feed Items further causes the user s device and or an interface element available on the user s device such as the operating system web browser another application or other device facility to display one or more additional icons tiled icons Feed Items or feed item content with or without activating the user interface in its entirety. In this manner the displayed icons tiled icons and or Feed Items can be used to invoke the user interface or to further view content and selections without invoking the full interface. This limited interface could be a user configurable interface widget that could be placed on any of the four edges of the screen. As one example of the interface shown in displayed icons or tiled icons could appear as a single row of icons running along one edge of a smartphone or tablet home screen such that each user of the interface would have a personalized array of icons immediately available by pulling a tab without first invoking the full interface as shown with the tab not pulled in dragging the tab from right to left the displayed icons and tiled icons are shown in a rotating or scrolling column for the interface for a carousel that contains more icons than can be displayed in the area along one edge of the smartphone home screen as shown in further dragging the icons or tab in a direction perpendicular to the length of the column in the interface could reveal the feed item carrousel showing feed items associated with icons as shown in touching a Feed Item in one of the feed panes could invoke playback of the video all accomplished from the smartphone home screen without first invoking the full interface.

Referring next to another embodiment of the smartphone or tablet interface is shown with the channel carousel arranged horizontally to rotate right to left or vice versa. This limited interface could be configured by the user as an interface widget to occupy any horizontal region of the screen giving the option to be higher or lower on the screen. Selecting any icon would display the corresponding feed panes for some or all of the visible icons not shown as a horizontal carousel either above or below the channel carousel . Selection of a Feed Item in a feed pane would activate a video window not shown either above or below the channel carousel . In some embodiments the activation of the video window would fill the entire screen or at least obscure the channel carousel in whole or in part.

In an optional aspect of the primary and other embodiments the user can optionally select among multiple genre modes. Each genre mode comprises a combination of icons and or tiled icons and optionally further comprises a combination of correlated or uncorrelated Feed Items. When a genre mode is selected by the user only those icons and or tiled icons and optionally correlated or uncorrelated Feed Items that are associated with the selected genre are displayed by that interface while in the mode. Icons and or tiled icons and optionally correlated or uncorrelated Feed Items can be associated with only one more than one or a specified number of genres and or can have a degree of genre association which can be used to determine which of a user s particular set of icons and or tiled icons and optionally correlated or uncorrelated Feed Items should be associated with that genre for genre mode purposes or other purposes. Optionally a genre may contain or may contain only icons and or tiled icons Service feeds Service feed items and optionally correlated or uncorrelated Feed Items that are not contained in the user s selections e.g. a genre comprising only recommendations for inclusion in the user s selections or a genre containing some current selections and some recommendations for inclusion in the user s selections in either case optionally further limited to a subset of all possibilities in this mode the user can optionally choose if only their previously selected Feed Items are used for the genre filter or if their Feed Items can be supplemented or replaced by feed items that were not previously selected. Optionally the user can control which genres are available to her. Genres may comprise any attribute or basis for sorting filtering or selecting among icons and or tiled icons Service feeds Service feed items and optionally correlated or uncorrelated Feed Items including but not limited to category topic time viewing history length sources keywords content elements ratings popularity actor creator creation time or date and or other attributes. Genres could also comprise users or groups of users of a device . As an example of genre mode a user might have configured her system to offer her a choice of music movies fashion politics and sports as genres available to her in this example when she selects the music genre icons associated with the music genre or that contain feed items associated with the music genre would be displayed as a result her icons for particular musicians music blogs and music services would be displayed each with all associated feed items plus icons for her social networking services would be displayed each with all associated feed items that are also associated with the music genre e.g. her Twitter icon would be displayed along with items from her Twitter feed that are related to music. Continuing the example when she selects the politics genre a different set of icons would be displayed these icons associated with the politics genre or containing feed items associated with the politics genre as a result her icons for particular politicians or political commentators political parties and politics blogs would be displayed each with all associated feed items plus news services with feed items related to politics would be displayed each with all associated feed items that are also associated with the politics genre e.g. her CNN icon would be displayed along with items from her CNN feed that are related to politics plus icons for her social networking services would be displayed each with all associated feed items that are also associated with the politics genre e.g. her Twitter icon would be displayed along with items from her Twitter feed that are related to politics. Further genre modes can be contained within a given genre mode so for example the sports genre mode might further contain a basketball genre mode which might further contain a college basketball genre mode or the sports genre mode might contain both the basketball genre mode and the college basketball genre mode. As another example genre choices available to a user could be standard users and recommended. In this example when she selects standard mode she sees her normal set of icons and Feed Items when she selects users mode she sees a set of icons that all correlate to other users contained within her standard array of icons and service feeds including optionally individual users that do not appear separately in her standard mode and when she selects recommended mode she sees icons and Feed Items that do not appear in her standard mode view but that are recommended for her for inclusion at her option in her personal configuration.

The visual representation of the genre modes available the selected genre mode and other genre mode related characteristics may optionally be implemented as an icon array of icons or sub array of icons as a separate indicator message pull down control keyword control or symbol conditionally indicated to the user or not indicated to the user . When more than one genre mode is available to the user the selected genre mode may be continuously periodically conditionally or partially synchronized or not synchronized from one device used by the user to another device used by the user .

In an optional aspect of the primary and other embodiments a user can optionally conditionally or non conditionally share or prohibit sharing of in real time near real time retrospectively or in aggregate some or all of her icons and or tiled icons other user interface elements components contents messages or characteristics or selection of genre or other mode and or correlated or uncorrelated Feed Items Feeds as well as associated actions user actions and responses to user actions with one or more other users of the aggregation system with one or more other users of another Internet service such as a social networking service or with one or more users of another service enabled by the user s device or by interconnection of the user s device with another system or service. Such sharing can be implemented automatically periodically continuously as a result of an action or selection by the user or another user or on another basis. For example a user could optionally share her tiled icons along with any Feed Item filtering with another user of the aggregation system so that the receiving user could see and at her option adopt some or all of the icons tiled icons icon combinations or icon configurations along with the correlated Feeds of the sharing user. Such sharing could be implemented by allowing the sharing user to send some or all of her icon configuration to the receiving user or by enabling the sharing user to publisher her icon configuration or a portion of it so that any other user can see and optionally adopt some or all of it or by enabling the receiving user to request and the sharing user to allow or not allow access to the sharing user s icon configuration or by any similar process. As another example a user could optionally share in real time or near real time with other users of the aggregation system or with other users of a social networking service each icon selection action that she takes such that other users would be notified of the icons tiled icons and or Feeds selected by the sharing user and optionally of the device the sharing user is using to access the aggregation system from moment to moment as the sharing user uses the aggregation system .

In addition a user can optionally conditionally or non conditionally allow or not allow in real time near real time retrospectively or in aggregate sharing to her of some or all of the icons tiled icons Feeds other user interface elements components contents messages or characteristics or selection of genre or other mode and or correlated or uncorrelated Feed Items as well as associated actions user actions and responses to user actions from one or more other users of the aggregation system from one or more other users of another Internet service such as a social networking service or from one or more users of another service enabled by the user s device or by interconnection of the user s device with another system or service.

In the primary and other embodiments implementation configuration synchronization coordination management and sharing of icons and or groupings of icons and or tiled icons and or other user interface elements components contents messages or characteristics or genre or other mode and or correlated or uncorrelated Feed Items as well as associated actions user actions and responses to user actions can be implemented through any of all of or any combination of a direct data or programming interface between the user interface the user s device and or an interface element available on the user s device such as the operating system web browser another application or other device facility and the feed presentation interface operating on the device a data or programming interface between the visual user interface the user s device and or an interface element available on the user s device such as the operating system web browser another application or other device facility and the aggregation system or other control system associated with the aggregation system a data or programming interface between an intermediate system communicating directly or indirectly with the visual user interface the user s device and or an interface element available on the user s device such as the operating system web browser another application or other device facility and the feed presentation interface operating on the device a data or programming interface between an intermediate system communicating directly or indirectly with the user interface the user s device and or an interface element available on the user s device such as the operating system web browser another application or other device facility and the aggregation system or other control system associated with the aggregation system a data or programming interface communicating directly or indirectly between the aggregation system and an Internet service or another system or service a data or programming interface communicating directly or indirectly between the aggregation system and an Internet service or another system or service utilizing user access credentials to access the aggregation system the Internet service and or another system or service or another data or programming interface that communicates the contents of or information about the icons tiled icons and or other user interface elements components contents messages or characteristics or genre or other mode and or Feed Items or other information associated with one or more users of the device or user interface .

In an optional aspect of the primary embodiment the user has the option of selecting regular viewing mode which plays each video in the selective feed in full as presented that is plays the first video then plays the next video then plays the next video or can select a quick play viewing mode activated by a quick play control which plays one or more excerpts of each video rather than the full videos in scan sequence. In this optional aspect of the primary embodiment the excerpts may be of a specific length may be of selectable length by the user may be of a length selected by the aggregation system or may be of a length separately selected for each feed item by the aggregation system for each. In this optional aspect of the primary embodiment the user has the option of clicking on a play in full icon which then initiates playback of the full feed item from the beginning upon completion the aggregation system will stay in regular viewing mode of the active viewing pane for the next feed item in the user s selective feed or in another optional aspect of the primary embodiment the aggregation system will return to quick play viewing mode for the next feed item . When the user selects quick play viewing mode or alters the settings length of excerpt etc. of quick play viewing mode the presentation of the user s selective feed is filtered to include only those feed items for which the necessary excerpt s is are available thus presenting the user a selective feed that functions properly in this mode.

In another optional aspect of the primary embodiment content publishers and or Internet services may be offered the option of prohibiting quick play viewing mode or of specifying one or more excerpts to be presented in quick play viewing mode. If a content publisher has elected to prohibit quick play viewing mode when the user selects this viewing mode the presentation of the user s Feed is additionally filtered to include only those Feed Items for which the content publisher has not prohibited quick play viewing mode thus presenting the user a Feed that functions properly in this mode. If a content publisher has elected to specify one or more excerpts to be presented in quick play viewing mode when the user selects this mode the presentation of the user s Feed is additionally filtered to include only those Feed Items for which the specified excerpt matches the quick play viewing mode settings or alternatively the user s settings are overridden and the content publisher s selected excerpt is presented even though it does not meet the user s quick play viewing mode settings.

In another optional aspect of the primary embodiment content publishers may be offered the option of prohibiting quick play viewing mode on specific devices or specifying the excerpt to be used on a particular device in quick play viewing mode. If a content publisher has elected to prohibit quick play viewing mode on specific devices when the user selects quick play viewing the presentation of the user s Feed is additionally filtered to include only those Feed Items for which the content publisher has not prohibited quick play viewing mode on the device the user is using for playback thus presenting the user a Feed that functions properly in this mode. If a content publisher has elected to specify one or more excerpts to be presented in quick play viewing mode on a particular device when the user selects this mode the presentation of the user s Feed is additionally filtered to include only those Feed Items for which the content provider s specified excerpt for the device being used by the user matches the quick play viewing mode settings or alternatively the user s settings are overridden and the content publisher s selected excerpt for the device being used by the user is presented even though it does not meet the user s quick play viewing mode settings.

In the primary embodiment the Feed presented to the user may optionally be modified expanded or narrowed based on the capabilities of the device in use by the user to effectively render the video content that comprises is contained in is referred to by or is otherwise indicated by the Feed Items in the Feed. In the primary embodiment the ability to effectively render the video content is determined in absolute terms that is either the device can render it or the device cannot in another embodiment the ability to effectively render the video content is determined in qualitative terms such as based on how well the device can render the video content based on the relative quality of the video playback in the context of the device s overall capabilities or based on the relative quality of the video playback in the context of the particular user s or a typical user s normal usage of the device . In some embodiments the Internet service can specify a minimum quality of service such that their video is rendered at an adequate quality and if the user device is not capable of the specified minimum quality those Feed Items are removed hidden or disabled from the Feed.

In an optional aspect of the primary and other embodiments the device can notify the aggregation system when it receives a Feed Item that does not reference renderable video or that references video that renders poorly or that references video that is blocked or prohibited from playing or that otherwise does not play properly or with adequate quality of service QoS . The aggregation system can evaluate the notifications received from multiple devices including the number of notifications that have been received including optionally receiving just one notification the frequency with which the notifications are received the changes in velocity of the notifications the geographic network domain subdomain or other locations from which the notifications are received the format encoding bitrate or content attribute the device or devices class of device software or firmware version of the device from which the notifications are received or other factors associated with the notifications received and remove the Feed Item from the Feed of some or all users and optionally remove other related similar or otherwise correlated Feed Items from the Feed of some or all users . For example a Feed Item may stop rendering properly on a set top box device but render appropriately on tablet computers . For Feeds played on set top box devices the Feed Item would be removed or disabled but would remain in a Feed sent to a tablet computer . Where the players report problems that correlate to one of the above factors similarly situated users could have that Feed Item disabled. Additionally support personnel associated with the aggregation system could be notified so that the rendering failure could be corrected for example by contacting the provider of the service feed in which the Feed Item originated by updating or otherwise modifying the user interface by modifying the rendering system so that the affected Feed Item s can be properly viewed or by other corrective action. For example a service feed provider may change its video player software or video encoding techniques such that the Feed Items are no longer playable on the rendering system . Support personnel could correct the interface software that retrieves video from the service feed provider s Internet domain or from the service feed provider s feed to enable the video from the service feed provider to play correctly in the rendering system . Feed Items that were disabled could be re enabled after this correction is made and the previously unrenderable Feed Items were reprocessed and made available to the relevant Feeds.

In an optional aspect of the primary embodiment the Feed presented to the user may optionally be modified expanded or narrowed based on the user s Feed Items that are accessible or accessed and the device in use by the user based on policies attributes or characteristics associated with the Feed Items including the preferences or settings specified by any of all of or any combination of the producer of publisher of distributor of contributor to or other party affiliated with one or more items or the content contained in or referenced by one or more Feed Items or by one or more Internet services that contributed one or more feed items or the content contained in or referenced by one or more Feed Items to the feed. In an optional aspect of the primary embodiment the feed presented to the user may optionally be modified expanded or narrowed based on the user s Feed Items and the device in use by the user based on policies attributes or characteristics associated with the device including the preferences or settings specified by the manufacturer of distributor of or other party affiliated with the device . In another optional aspect of the primary embodiment the Feed presented to the user may optionally be modified expanded or narrowed based on the user s Feed Items and the network or network segment to which the device in use by the user is attached based on policies attributes or characteristics associated with the network or network segment including the preferences or settings specified by the network or network segment operator including a network operator an enterprise or other organization or an operator of a home or other premises network.

In the primary embodiment the user can view a subset of the Feed and or playback of the video content that comprises is contained in is referred to by or is otherwise indicated by the Feed Items in the Feed based on including or excluding all of any of or any combination of the Internet service s from which one or more Feed Items were obtained the user s or other entity ies associated with the Internet service s from which one or more Feed Items were obtained the source s where one or more Feed Items were referenced the source s where one or more Feed Items were published the source s where one or more Feed Items were first published one or more lists or categories of Internet services one or more lists or categories of users of one or more Internet services one or more lists or categories of sources where Feed Items are referenced published or first published one or more topics to which one or more Feed Items refer one or more categories of topics or within which one or more topics are included one or more time ranges timeframes sequences or dates one or more ratings either globally or within one or more Internet services activity related to one or more Feed Items or other criteria associated with one or more Feed Items.

In an optional aspect of the primary embodiment the user can attach one or more devices such as connected consumer electronics equipment video game consoles smartphones set top boxes pad tablet computers and other devices to his or her user account with the aggregation system . In the primary embodiment the user navigates to a code available on the device she desires to connect to her account then enters that code into her account through the user interface . In an alternative method for connecting a device to her account the user navigates to a sign in screen on the device she wishes to connect and enters her username and password thereby signing into the aggregation system from the desired device . In another method for connecting a device to a user s account the device is configured before shipment to connect to her account based on information she provides or that is otherwise available for example at the time of placing the order. Under any of these or other methods the aggregation system of the primary embodiment then identifies the device type unique identification information and other technical and configuration characteristics identifies the device as connected to the user s account and provides the appropriately configured Feeds properly formatted service feed Items other user interface parameters and elements operational parameters controls and commands and other content and data to the device and accepts data input and other appropriately formatted and if desired authenticated entries from the device . In one embodiment a device can only be attached to a single user account with the aggregation system in another embodiment a device can be attached to multiple user accounts of the aggregation system .

In an optional aspect of the primary embodiment the aggregation system determines one or more home regions locations or other geographic characteristics of a user or of a device or the combination of a user and device with any appropriate level or range of geographic or cultural precision such as a global region e.g. North America Western Europe continent country state county city postal code designated marketing area DMA census tract language zone or other cultural environs. The home regions locations or other geographic characteristics can then be used to filter prioritize select or make substitutions for some or all feed items or versions of feed items or versions of content associated with feed items such as video content presented in or with the Feed for a user for example to select a version of a Feed Item that is presented in a language specific to or appropriate for a region location or characteristic or that contains a content version tailored to or appropriate for a region country or location or substitute one such version of a Feed Item for another or as another example to filter out a Feed Item that is not appropriate for or is prohibited for legal or regulatory reasons in a country or location. In another embodiment of this optional aspect of the primary embodiment the user can specify her home region location or other geographic characteristics. In yet another embodiment the aggregation system determines one or more home regions locations or characteristics of a user the user can also specify her home region location or other geographic characteristics and the aggregation system can determine when under what conditions and or for which Feed Items to use the home region location or other geographic characteristics specified by the user and when under what conditions and or for which Feed Items to use the home regions locations or other geographic characteristics determined by the aggregation system . In one embodiment the Internet service can specify a home region location or other geographic characteristics on a per service feed or per Service feed item which is communicated to the aggregation system and can be used by the aggregation system independently or in conjunction with the home region location or other geographic characteristics determined by the aggregation system or the home region location or other geographic characteristics specified by the user or both.

In an optional aspect of the primary embodiment the user interface of the aggregation system presents the user with a list of or array comprising one or more of the devices connected to the aggregation system optionally including the manufacturer model device type carrier unique identifier and or other relevant descriptive data allows the user to provide customized names or identifiers to each device such as John s smartphone or Living Room TV enables the user to manage each device including to cancel the connection of that device to the user s account enables the user to manage which of his or her Feeds subsets of feeds lists of items or other category or subset of Feed Items is available on each device and under what label or title enables the user to identify or save Feed Items for a specific device or devices for example while browsing the web via a web browser or while reviewing her Feed from a connected smartphone identify or save a video for viewing on the device Living Room TV or on the group of devices TVs at Home enables the user to manage the lengths of items content of items category of items or other item attributes that will determine or influence which content or Feed Items are available on that device allows the user to control one connected device from another such as controlling a connected Blu Ray player from a connected smartphone control how one or more Feeds subset s of the Feed s or group of content or Feed Items is are filtered and or presented on the device or another device and enables the user to save rollback changes to or recover prior versions of such configurations information settings or controls associated with one or more devices .

In an optional aspect of the primary and other embodiments the aggregation system accesses multiple Internet services by accessing a single shared content management system. The aggregation system may use a single system level access technique such as a token sign in sequence shared secret key public key digital signature or other authorization technique to access the shared content management system or may use an individual system level access technique to access the shared content management system for each authorized Internet service associated with the shared content management system or may access the shared content management system without any system level access control. The aggregation system can use common access interface and processing steps and techniques for all Internet services associated with a particular shared content management system while still identifying the separate Internet services associated with the shared content management system and identifying and maintaining the association of Feed Items and other associated information such as metadata with the proper Internet service associated with the shared content management system. The aggregation system may similarly access multiple shared content management systems concurrently or sequentially. If a given Internet service is associated with more than one shared content management system the aggregation system can optionally maintain separation of the Feed Items and other associated information from some or all of the shared content management systems associated with the Internet service or can merge some or all of them into a single Feed of content and or associated information associated with the Internet service . If a given Internet service migrates from one shared content management system to another shared content management system the aggregations system can access the new shared content management system using any new required system level access techniques required and can optionally merge some or all of the Feed Items and other associated information into a single Feed of content and or associated information associated with the Internet service .

In an optional aspect of the primary and other embodiments the operator of the aggregation system or another service provider can provide any of some of all of or any combination of technical optimization digital advertising execution user activity reporting and synchronization with other applications for providers of content Feeds Internet services or other content data or services to the aggregation system .

Technical optimization includes but is not limited to audio and or video encoding and or transcoding at one encoded bitrate or at multiple encoded bitrates audio and or video encoding and or transcoding to adapt files for delivery to particular devices including detecting the device and selecting an appropriate technical format associated with the device segmenting encoded files into appropriate segment sizes for delivery adapted to various devices and or various network connectivity conditions so that files are encoded in the proper format and protocol for particular devices and or so that overall segment lengths are appropriate for a given device given the heterogeneous memory processor buffer and other technical characteristics of different devices and or so that higher bitrate segments can be requested and or delivered when more network throughput is available while lower bitrate segments can be requested and or delivered when less network throughput is available and file transmission or delegation of file transmission to one or more selected data services providers or data storage or computing infrastructure providers.

Digital advertising execution includes but is not limited to issuing one or more appropriately formatted advertising requests to one or more advertising services or servers before after during or in conjunction with a content request play other user action or independently of a user action identifying the appropriate advertising service or server to issue advertising requests to including allocating advertising requests among multiple advertising services or servers for a given content request or play or among a series of content requests or plays and including based on the service feed source content publisher content distributor or other entity associated with the content device network or user generating retrieving sending and or receiving parameters associated with digital advertising from data files or tables or in URIs content tags embed codes scripting languages or programming calls incorporating digital or other advertisements into the content experience including displaying or inserting audio video graphic or other advertisement content before after during in overlay in alphablend in conjunction with or independently of audio video graphic or other content and reporting completed advertisement views to one or more advertising services or servers measurement services or servers and or other services or servers.

User activity reporting includes but is not limited to issuing appropriately formatted URL requests pixel requests data messages commands or other data interactions to one or more measurement servers or services analytics servers or services reporting servers or services or other servers or services. The activity reporting could be used by the aggregation system and optionally provided back to the Internet services for their Feeds and or Feed Items.

Synchronization with other applications includes but is not limited to linking between the user interface or user device and one or more other applications linking specifically from a given Feed or Feed Item to one or more other applications including in the linking process an identification of the user s identity in the context of the aggregation system the provider of the other application s or the provider of another Internet service including in the linking process an identification of what content or other item or location within the user interface or user device or user action the user selected viewed interacted with or performed that resulted in or was associated with linking to the one or more other applications prompting from the user interface or user device the download of one or more other applications and notification in the user interface or user device of the availability of one or more other applications or services.

Technical optimization digital advertising execution user activity reporting and synchronization with other applications can be technically implemented through any of all of or any combination of execution as part of the user interface as part of software functionality on the device as part of the aggregation system as part of a system associated with the aggregation system as part of an Internet service associated with the aggregation system and or the user as part of or in conjunction with a content management system shared content management system or other system associated with a service feed as a standalone system or programming interface as a standalone Internet service through a programming interface or other digital interface of the device the operating system executing on the device or other software executing on the device through a programming interface or other digital interface available in conjunction with the network connected directly indirectly or through an intermediate network to the user device .

In one implementation of this aspect of the primary and other embodiments technical optimization digital advertising execution and user activity reporting are provided by the operator of the aggregation system . In this implementation a service feed provider enables access to an XML feed of video content items as video service feed items are published or otherwise become available enables access to its digital advertising server enables access to an XML feed of its digital advertisements provides a configuration for its content delivery service and provides one or more reporting service URLs or beacons. The operator of the aggregation system receives the XML feed of video content items from the service feed provider encodes and or transcodes the video feed items into one or more suitable encoded file formats each at one or more bitrates preparing the video content for playback on some or all of the devices supported by the aggregation system where supported by the device and or expected delivery conditions segments the encoded files into one or more segment lengths suitable for some or all of the devices supported by the aggregation system and associates one or more Internet URLs or other content identifiers with each encoded file or segment. The operator of the aggregation system also receives the XML feed of advertisements and similarly prepares the advertisements for playback on some or all of the devices associated with the aggregations system . The operator of the aggregation system then provides in the feed sent to user devices appropriate URIs for that device manifests containing appropriate URIs for that device or alternatively intermediate URIs or manifests containing intermediate URIs that will lead through HTTP redirection or other similar techniques to appropriate URIs for that device . In this manner when a content item URI intermediate URI or manifest containing URIs or intermediate URIs is requested by the user it will be requested from the aggregation system or a system associated with the aggregation system rather than directly from the service feed provider . The operator of the aggregation system can operate systems that encode transcode and or segment files can utilize an outside service that encodes transcodes and or segments files or can utilize an outside service that provides URIs intermediate URIs manifests containing URIs and or manifests containing intermediate URIs that identify the content in a form appropriate for the device .

Continuing with this implementation a URI sent to the device can include or encode parameters associated with digital advertising management options processes or alternatives which can then be passed through to digital advertising servers or services either directly or after combination with other information or parameters. Alternatively the parameters can be retrieved from a file or table can be generated or can otherwise be determined. These parameters can influence or control the selection of advertising servers or services for some or all of the available advertising units the trafficking of advertisements into available advertising units or other aspects of the digital advertising process.

Continuing with this implementation before during after or in conjunctions with content selection or playback by the user the operator of the aggregation system or associated system can then issue a request to the advertising server or service identified by the service feed provider receive in response a designation of which advertisement to insert before after or into or display in conjunction with the content during the content playback experience and can insert or display the correct advertisement at the correct position in a properly encoded and segmented form into the playback experience on behalf of the service feed provider . The advertisement can be inserted by any of all of or any combination of the user interface the user s device by inserting URLs or intermediate URLs referencing the advertisement into manifests sent to the user s device by inserting manifests containing URLs or intermediate URLs referencing the advertisement into the sequence of manifests sent to the user s device or directly into the content sent to the user s device either at the time the content is requested or in a preparation step before the content is requested. At during after or in conjunction with the playback or display of the advertisement the operator of the aggregation system can then report completion of the advertisement playback or display to one or more advertising servers or services or other reporting servers or services identified by or associated with the service feed provider on behalf of the service feed provider . The operator of the aggregation system can also report progress through completion of and other analytical characteristics of the content video playback activity of the user to one or more reporting and or measurement servers or services identified by or associated with the service feed provider on behalf of the service feed provider.

This implementation can support multiple service feed providers providing independent XML feeds of content items as they are published or available and XML feeds of advertisements employing different advertising servers or services while also supporting multiple service feed providers that use the same advertising servers or services by identifying to the advertising measurement server or service the service feed provider on whose behalf the operator of the aggregation system is reporting and employing different reporting and or measurement servers or services while also supporting multiple service feed providers using the same reporting and or measurement servers or services by identifying to the reporting and or measurement server or service the service feed provider on whose behalf the operator of the aggregation system is reporting . This implementation can concurrently support multiple different user interfaces operating on multiple different devices interacting with multiple advertising servers or services and multiple reporting and or measurement servers or services on behalf of multiple service feed providers or independently of any individual service feed provider .

Other implementations of this aspect of the primary and other embodiments can provide digital advertising execution and user activity reporting through requests made and reports sent by the user interface the user device a component of facility of or other program operating on the user device or a network connected directly or via another network to the user device . In all such implementations the requests and reports can be made either directly to the advertising server s or service s and or reporting and or measurement server s or service s or to an intermediate server or service operated by the operator of the aggregation system or another service operator. The operator of the aggregation system or another service operator can maintain and or provide to the user interface user device or other requesting and reporting servers or services one or more datasets data records data elements or other input information that identifies for each participating service feed provider the advertising server s reporting and or measurement server s request formats reporting protocols and other necessary technical and interface information addresses protocols formats and authentication techniques so that the user interface user device or other requesting and reporting server or service can successfully request and or report to the correct servers and or services on behalf of each service feed provider . In such implementations the operator of the aggregation system or other service operator can provide and periodically update one or more datasets data records data elements or other input information thereby enabling the user interface user device or other requesting and reporting servers or services to make multiple requests by accessing the datasets data records data elements or other inputs multiple times between communications with the operator of the aggregation system or other service operator or the operator of the aggregation system or other service operator can maintain one or more datasets data records data elements or other input information and enable the user interface user device or other requesting and reporting servers or services to access interact with communicate with or otherwise obtain information as needed from the datasets data records data elements or other input information each time such information is needed or the operator of the aggregation system or other service operator can act as a communications hub or point e.g. a clearinghouse enabling the user interface user device or other requesting and reporting servers or services to access interact with communicate with or otherwise obtain information as needed or in advance of as needed from it while it in turn accesses the datasets data records data elements or other input information from service feed providers Internet services shared content management systems or other sources of such information as such information is requested or in advance of such requests. These implementations can concurrently support multiple different user interfaces operating on multiple different devices interacting with multiple advertising servers or services and multiple reporting and or measurement servers or services on behalf of multiple service feed providers or independently of any individual service feed provider .

In another optional aspect of the primary and other embodiments the operator of the aggregation system can signal advertising load characteristics or whether or not to insert an advertisement to multiple service feed providers such that the overall advertising load experienced by a user can be coordinated among multiple service feed providers and so that each service feed provider can receive a share of the total available advertising load. This can help prevent the individual actions of service feed providers in deciding how many advertisements to insert and which video playbacks to insert them into from combining in an uncoordinated way to saturate the user s playback experience with too many advertisements. In one implementation of this aspect of the primary and other embodiments the user interface or user device includes a parameter with each requested service feed item that signals whether or not an advertisement should be inserted into the requested content item. In another implementation of this aspect of the primary and other embodiments the user interface user device aggregation system or other system making requests to an advertising server on behalf of the service feed provider includes a parameter with each requested service feed item that signals whether or not an advertisement should be inserted into the requested content item. In another implementation of this aspect of the primary and other embodiments the user interface user device aggregation system or other system making requests to an advertising server on behalf of the service feed provider manages the overall advertising load by not making a request to the advertising server which results in a content item without an advertisement inserted into it. In any such implementation the advertising load is managed to an acceptable level for the user while at the same time the available advertising load is distributed among the service feed providers according to each service feed provider s share overall load objectives or other objectives. In this manner the user interface user device aggregation system or other system operates to coordinate the advertisement insertions among the participating service feed providers. In other embodiments the service feed providers insert advertising avails into the content item or in metadata where the aggregation system can insert advertising.

In an optional aspect of the primary and other embodiments Feeds can include items added to the Feed that are not feed content items. Additional items can include identifiers of the feed provider service provider or other provider or of the date day part season device place network or other party introductory opening or summary items at the top of a Feed or Feed Item summary or closing items at the bottom of a Feed Feed Item or group of feed items transitional multimedia items between feed items and other items added to the feed that are not feed content items.

In an optional aspect of the primary and other embodiments a service feed presented to a user may be comprised of feed items from more than one service feed presented without attribution to identification of or separation by the contributing content provider. An Internet service for example could gather feed items from multiple sources and aggregate those feed items into a service feed that is passed to the aggregation system .

In an optional aspect of the primary and other embodiments the Feeds and or other Feed Items associated with a user can be accessed searched indexed correlated or used in responding to search requests made by the user other users associated with or authorized by the user other users of the aggregation system or other users of search services generally. For example a user may make one or more of or even all their Feeds public such that they could be searched by other users .

The search provider can provide to the operator of the aggregation system or a system associated with the aggregation system a user identifier such as a user name or number device name or number global unique identifier associated with a user or device IP address host number or any combination thereof along with one or more search terms keywords categories or other search indicators. The operator of the aggregation system or other system associated with the aggregation system can provide to the search provider specific feed items that are responsive to the search terms keywords categories or other search indicators from the service feeds Feed Items associated with the user identified by the user identifier other users associated with the user identified by the user identifier or of users of the aggregation system . Items responsive to the search terms keywords categories or other search indicators can be prioritized ranked scored and or weighted based on data collected by the operator of the aggregation system including but not limited to sharing activity viewing activity rating activity following or subscribing activity or other user activity regarding one or more feed items content provider feeds keywords or categories based on activity of the user users associated with the user users of another Internet service or users of the aggregation system .

Alternatively the operator of the aggregation system or other system associated with the aggregation system can provide to the search provider one or more user identifiers such as user names or numbers device names or numbers global unique identifiers associated with users or devices IP addresses host numbers or any combination thereof along with one or more Internet domains Internet services Feeds keywords associated with one or more Feeds composition characteristics of Feeds or characteristics of other Feeds Feed Items associated with each user identified by a user identifier or of other users associated with each user identified by a user identifier.

Alternatively the operator of the aggregation system or other system associated with the aggregation system can provide to the search provider with one or more Internet domains Internet services Feeds keywords associated with one or more feeds composition characteristics of feeds or Feeds characteristics of other Feeds and or Feed Items associated with all users or subsets of users of the aggregation system .

Search providers can include search service operators device manufacturers network access or service providers software providers or any other operator of a search service.

Implementation of the interface between the search provider and the operator of the aggregation system or other system associated with the aggregation system can include any of all of or any combination of execution as part of the user interface as part of the device as part of the aggregation system as part of a system associated with the aggregation system as part of an Internet service associated with the aggregation system and or the user as a system or programming interface of the search provider or a system associated with the search provider as another system or programming interface as another Internet service through a programming interface or other digital interface of the device the operating system executing on the device or other software executing on the device or through a programming interface or other digital interface available in conjunction with the network connected directly indirectly or through an intermediate network to the user device .

In an optional aspect of the primary and other embodiments the aggregation system a system associated with the aggregation system a system associated with the user interface or device a system associated with some or all of the devices on which instances of the user interface execute a system associated with software operating on some or all of the devices on which instances of the user interface execute a system associated with one or more files or other data created by stored on or processed by some or all of the devices on which instances of the user interface execute a system associated with some or all service feed providers a system associated with some or all of the networks connected directly indirectly or through an intermediate network to some or all of the devices on which instances of the user interface execute or another system or service can receive accumulate parse process summarize divide into subsets and otherwise manipulate data elements data records data sets or other information comprising numerical statistical quantitative qualitative descriptive or other information about actions interactions events and other behavior and activities started stopped completed made or taken by users as they engage with the user interface or device other interfaces to the aggregation system or Internet services connected to the aggregation system Feeds Feed Items icons tiled icons controls data entry fields and or other elements of the user interface or device . In addition such accumulated data can but need not necessarily include user authentication method user identity anonymized unique user identifiers such as globally unique identifiers location date time device identifier network identifier connectivity mode operating system and other software component identifiers user input device identifier and other information. The accumulated data can be divided into subsets by and exported to one or more service feed providers manufacturers of devices on which instances of the visual user interface execute developers of other software that executes on devices on which instances of the visual user interface execute providers of networks connected directly indirectly or through an intermediate network to some or all of the devices on which instances of the visual user interface execute providers of Internet services advertising agencies advertising measurement and reporting servers or services audience measurement and reporting servers or services or other measurement and reporting servers or services.

Referring next to an embodiment of a single pane view of the user interface is shown. In this embodiment a channel carousel rotates to select a single icon denoted by a radio dial . The feed pane corresponding to the selected icon is shown. The user can select a Feed Item in the feed pane that is shown in the video window . The video window may be selected to go full screen to occupy the entire single pane view or may automatically do so after playback is begun or after a delay once playback is begun. In this embodiment the single pane view is displayed on a television using a built in player a set top box a DVD or Blu Ray player a video streaming device etc.

Specific details are given in the above description to provide a thorough understanding of the embodiments. However it is understood that the embodiments may be practiced without these specific details. For example circuits may be shown in block diagrams in order not to obscure the embodiments in unnecessary detail. In other instances well known circuits processes algorithms structures and techniques may be shown without unnecessary detail in order to avoid obscuring the embodiments.

Also it is noted that the embodiments may be described as a process which is depicted as a flowchart a flow diagram a data flow diagram a structure diagram or a block diagram. Although a flowchart may describe the operations as a sequential process many of the operations can be performed in parallel or concurrently. In addition the order of the operations may be re arranged. A process is terminated when its operations are completed but could have additional steps not included in the figure. A process may correspond to a method a function a procedure a subroutine a subprogram etc. When a process corresponds to a function its termination corresponds to a return of the function to the calling function or the main function.

Furthermore embodiments may be implemented by hardware software scripting languages firmware middleware microcode hardware description languages and or any combination thereof. When implemented in software firmware middleware scripting language and or microcode the program code or code segments to perform the necessary tasks may be stored in a machine readable medium such as a storage medium. A code segment or machine executable instruction may represent a procedure a function a subprogram a program a routine a subroutine a module a software package a script a class or any combination of instructions data structures and or program statements. A code segment may be coupled to another code segment or a hardware circuit by passing and or receiving information data arguments parameters and or memory contents. Information arguments parameters data etc. may be passed forwarded or transmitted via any suitable means including memory sharing message passing token passing network transmission etc.

For a firmware and or software implementation the methodologies may be implemented with modules e.g. procedures functions and so on that perform the functions described herein. Any machine readable medium tangibly embodying instructions may be used in implementing the methodologies described herein. For example software codes may be stored in a memory. Memory may be implemented within the processor or external to the processor. As used herein the term memory refers to any type of long term short term volatile nonvolatile or other storage medium and is not to be limited to any particular type of memory or number of memories or type of media upon which memory is stored.

Moreover as disclosed herein the term storage medium may represent one or more memories for storing data including read only memory ROM random access memory RAM magnetic RAM core memory magnetic disk storage mediums optical storage mediums flash memory devices and or other machine readable mediums for storing information. The term machine readable medium includes but is not limited to portable or fixed storage devices optical storage devices wireless channels and or various other storage mediums capable of storing that contain or carry instruction s and or data.

While the principles of the disclosure have been described above in connection with specific apparatuses and methods it is to be clearly understood that this description is made only by way of example and not as limitation on the scope of the disclosure.

