---

title: Call status sharing
abstract: In general, techniques are described for sharing information about a client device phone call to enhance other services. In one example, a method includes receiving, at a server device, voice call parameters that describe at least one characteristic of a voice call in which a user of a first device is participating wherein the first device is physically separate from the server device, and responsive to receiving the voice call parameters, determining, by the server device, a status of the user based on the received voice call parameters. The method further includes storing an account for the user on the server device, wherein the account includes a user profile for the user and identifies contacts of the user, and modifying, by the server device, the user profile to reflect the status of the user, and sending the modified user profile to a device associated with a contact of the user.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09413883&OS=09413883&RS=09413883
owner: Google Inc.
number: 09413883
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150610
---
This application is a divisional application of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 963 408 filed Dec. 8 2010 which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 381 822 filed Sep. 10 2010 the entire content of each of which is incorporated by reference herein.

The disclosure relates to communication systems and more particularly to sharing call status information across communication systems.

Various online services such as instant messaging or chat clients provide a free busy presence status indicator that indicates a status of a user associated with an account. The user may have accounts with multiple online services. The user typically manually updates his status indicator as needed such as by changing the status to busy when the user will be unavailable.

In general this disclosure is directed to techniques for sharing information about a mobile phone call to enhance other services. The techniques involve a central server being made aware of call information when a voice call is initiated or received such as by a mobile phone notifying the server and providing some information about the call to the central server. The server can use the call information to enhance other services for the user of the mobile phone or for other users. For example the server may use the call information to automatically update a user s real time status such as a Google Buzz message a Facebook status message an instant messaging status or similar.

In one example a method includes receiving at a server device voice call parameters that describe at least one characteristic of a voice call in which a user of a first device is participating wherein the first device is physically separate from the server device and responsive to receiving the voice call parameters determining by the server device a status of the user based on the received voice call parameters. The method further includes storing an account for the user on the server device wherein the account includes a user profile for the user and identifies one or more contacts of the user and modifying by the server device the user profile to reflect the status of the user. The method also includes sending the modified user profile from the server device to at least one device associated with at least one of the one or more contacts of the user such that the modified user profile is displayable by the at least one device.

In another example a computer readable storage medium comprises instructions that cause one or more processors of a server device to receive voice call parameters that describe at least one characteristic of a voice call in which a user of a first device is participating wherein the first device is physically separate from the server device and responsive to receiving the voice call parameters determine a status of the user based on the received voice call parameters. The instructions further cause the processors to store an account for the user on the server device wherein the account includes a user profile for the user and identifies one or more contacts of the user and modify the user profile to reflect the status of the user. The instructions further cause the processors to send the modified user profile from the server device to at least one device associated with at least one of the one or more contacts of the user such that the modified user profile is displayable by the at least one device.

In a further example a system comprises an interface of a first server device that receives voice call parameters that describe at least one characteristic of a voice call in which a user of a first device is participating wherein the first device is physically separate from the server device and a means for determining a status of the user based on the received voice call parameters responsive to receiving the voice call parameters. The system further comprises a database that an account for the user on the server device wherein the account includes a user profile for the user and identifies one or more contacts of the user and a display control module that modifies the user profile to reflect the status of the user and sends the modified user profile from the server device to at least one device associated with at least one of the one or more contacts of the user such that the modified user profile is displayable by the at least one device.

In yet a further example a method includes receiving user input authorizing the client device to send voice call parameters to a server device wherein the client device is physically separate from the server device and when the client device engages in a voice call and has received the user input send a message to the server device indicating a group of voice call parameters associated with the voice call wherein the group of voice call parameters describe at least one characteristic of the voice call in which the client device is engaged.

In another example a method includes receiving at a server device voice call parameters that describe at least one characteristic of a voice call in which a user of a first device is participating wherein the first device is physically separate from the server device and identifying by the server device a second device that is associated with the user wherein the second device is physically separate from the first device and the server device. The method further includes responsive to receiving the voice call parameters blocking incoming voice calls to the second device associated with the user when the voice call parameters indicate the user is participating in the voice call using the first device.

In a further example a computer readable storage medium includes instructions that cause one or more processors of a server device to receive voice call parameters that describe at least one characteristic of a voice call in which a user of a first device is participating wherein the first device is physically separate from the server device identify a second device that is associated with the user wherein the second device is physically separate from the first device and the server device and responsive to receiving the voice call parameters block incoming voice calls to the second device associated with the user when the voice call parameters indicate the user is participating in the voice call using the first device.

In yet another example a system includes an interface of a server device that receives voice call parameters that describe at least one characteristic of a voice call in which a user of a first device is participating wherein the first device is physically separate from the server device and a call status module that identifies a second device that is associated with the user wherein the second device is physically separate from the first device and the server device. The system also includes means for blocking incoming voice calls to the second device associated with the user responsive to receiving the voice call parameters when the voice call parameters indicate the user is participating in the voice call using the first device.

The techniques of this disclosure may provide one or more advantages. For example the techniques of this disclosure may provide a simplified mechanism for updating various status update services. The techniques may address the issue of a mobile phone user engaged in a call during which the user may be unable to provide full attention to other things such as receiving additional calls on other devices or responding to chat messages. The techniques of this disclosure provide for automatically updating the user s status to reflect that the user is busy on a voice call without requiring the user to manually update his status message each time the user engages in a call. The techniques provide a mechanism for automatically updating the user s profile on multiple different online applications that indicate user status without requiring user intervention to update each of the different applications. In addition the techniques may provide assistance to the user in automatically managing calls received on a second phone while engaged in a call on the first phone.

The details of one or more examples are set forth in the accompanying drawings and the description below. Other features objects and advantages will be apparent from the description and drawings and from the claims.

In general the disclosure is directed to techniques for sharing information about a client device phone call to enhance other services. The techniques may involve a central server being made aware of call information when a voice call is initiated or received such as by a mobile phone notifying the server and providing some information about the call to the central server. The server can use the information to enhance other services for the user of the mobile phone or for other users. The techniques may address the issue of a mobile phone user engaged in a call during which the user may be unable to provide full attention to other things such as receiving additional calls on other devices or responding to chat messages.

Various online services provide a free busy status indicator e.g. instant message chat clients but conventionally the status is typically tied only to the particular service. When engaging in a mobile phone call a user often cannot take other incoming calls or respond to chat messages but has no easy way of letting contacts know why he did not answer when they called or sent a message. The user could manually change his status message but this may be cumbersome to do each time the user engages in a phone call. Furthermore if the user needs to change his status in multiple different locations e.g. on multiple different status information providers the user typically needs to interact with each status information provider s user interface and set his status for each status information provider individually. Additionally if the user has more than one phone the user may not be able to conveniently manage calls received on a second phone while engaged in a call on the first phone. In one aspect of the techniques of this disclosure a mobile phone may automatically provide information about a mobile phone call that a user is engaged in to servers associated with other services so that the servers can update a free busy status indicator for the user to show that the user is engaged in a call. In another aspect a server receiving the mobile phone call information may automatically block an incoming call to another phone owned by the user when the user is engaged in a call on the mobile phone. Other functions may be provided based on the call information.

In one example a mobile phone may automatically send a message to the central server upon initiating or receiving a call. For example the message may be a HyperText Transfer Protocol HTTP message or a Short Message Service SMS message automatically issued by the mobile phone without user intervention. The message may include a telephone number associated with a device that initiated the telephone call a telephone number associated with a device to which the telephone was directed a timestamp indicating a start time of the call and an authentication token that allows the server to recognize the user associated with the device. In another example the user may be using a Google Voice application to make the phone call in which case a Google server associated with the Google Voice application may already have access to the call information without a mobile device having to send the information in a dedicated communication. The central server may use this information to update a status indicator of the user in a variety of ways such as to simply show the user is busy to show that the user is engaged in a call to identify the other party parties to the call to indicate the duration of the call or to provide other information.

Any type of mobile phone could employ these techniques with an Application Programming Interface API installed to send the information to the central server. In one aspect the mobile phone may present configuration options to the user allowing the user to choose whether to even share call information with other online services and may allow the user to select which online services the information will be shared with e.g. Facebook Google Twitter . In one aspect the mobile device may send the message to a central server which then distributes the information to the various interested online services. In another aspect the mobile device itself may distribute the information directly to the various service subscribers by sending multiple messages in a one to many fashion.

User may use device to receive or initiate a voice call. For example user may use device e.g. a mobile phone to make a voice call. In one example when device begins the call device automatically sends a message containing voice call parameters to server via network . Message may be for example a HyperText Transfer Protocol HTTP message or a Short Message Service SMS message automatically issued by device without any intervention by user . Message may include voice call parameters such as a telephone number associated with a device that initiated the telephone call e.g. device a telephone number associated with a device to which the telephone was directed a timestamp indicating a start time of the call and an authentication token that allows server to recognize the user associated with device . Other voice call parameters may be used in addition or instead of these parameters. In a similar manner device may send a message when device receives a voice call from another caller. Device may also send a message with new voice call parameters when device concludes a voice call. For example upon concluding the voice call device may send a message that includes a timestamp indicating an end time of the call. Message may also include a voice call parameter that indicates whether the call is starting or has ended.

Upon receiving message with the voice call parameters server determines a status of user based on the received voice call parameters. For example server may determine based on the received voice call parameters that user is engaged in a phone call and thus has a busy status. As another example server may determine based on the received voice call parameters that user has concluded a phone call and thus has a free status.

In the example of server acts as a central server for transmitting messages to other servers and or devices to enhance user services based on the voice call parameters received from device and the determine status. For example upon determining the status of the user server may then send status update messages A N status update messages to other servers A N associated with various online services. Server may determine which of servers to send status update messages if any based on configuration settings maintained by server for user . Server may be configured with APIs to automatically provide servers with status update messages in required formats for updating the free busy status of a profile associated user .

In one example scenario mobile device may be a mobile device belonging to user . When user is engaged in a phone call using device user may be unavailable to take calls on mobile device e.g. a mobile phone. In one aspect server is configured to upon determining that user is engaged in a phone call send a command to mobile device to cause mobile device to block incoming calls from ringing on mobile device and instead to send the calls directly to voice mail. When server subsequently receives another message with voice call parameters indicating that device has ended a call server may send another command to cause mobile device to remove the block on incoming calls from mobile device . In this manner server may provide functionality based on the voice call parameters received from device to enhance user service.

User may configure settings on device to enable device to send message or user may choose to disable this functionality. User may also set configuration settings on one or more of servers . For example a user may configure settings for their user profile on an online application service e.g. an online social networking service provided by server A to show the user s free busy status on their profile. Specifically the user may configure settings to allow their profile displays a busy sign when they are on a voice call and to allow their profile to display to others a name of another user to whom user is talking on the voice call.

In another aspect device may run an application such as Google Voice that allows server to be made aware of the voice call parameters without device needing to send a separate message with the voice call parameters. In this case server already has access to the voice call parameters and may automatically send status update messages and command as needed when a call begins or ends.

User may use device to receive or initiate a voice call. For example user may use device e.g. a mobile phone to make a voice call. In one example when device begins the call if user has enabled device to share call status with other services device automatically sends messages A N messages to servers without requiring an intermediate server to distribute the messages to the servers. In one aspect messages may include voice call parameters similar to those described above with respect to and servers may have the ability to receive the voice call parameters and determine a user status based on the voice call parameters. For example servers may have APIs installed to allow them to interpret the received voice call parameters and to modify a free busy status associated with an account of user based on the voice call parameters. The user s account may be stored on a database associated with one of servers . The account includes a user profile for the user and identifies one or more contacts of the user. Servers may be each associated with a different online application service.

In another aspect device may be configured with APIs to automatically provide servers with messages in required format for updating the free busy status associated with an account of user based on the user s engagement in a phone call using device .

In one aspect upon engaging in a voice call device sends a message to control mobile device to cause mobile device to block incoming calls from ringing on mobile device and instead to send the calls directly to voice mail. Device may send another message upon ending the voice call to unblock incoming calls from mobile device .

As illustrated in control unit includes call status propagation module voice call module storage device and processors . Voice call module initiates and receives voice phone calls from and to device . Call status sharing module manages sharing of voice call parameters status updates and other call status sharing functions as described in further detail below. Control unit stores instructions for applications A N applications that may be executed by one or more processors within storage device . For purposes of illustration only in the following description applications that may be executed by one or more processors are described below as being executed by one processor . Applications may be downloaded by user via network e.g. from one or more of servers or may be preprogrammed within device . Applications may be executed by processor in response to user interacting with device to execute applications . Applications may also be executed by processor when user turns on device .

Storage device may also include instructions that cause processor to perform various functions ascribed to processor in this disclosure. Storage device may comprise a computer readable machine readable or processor readable storage medium that comprises instructions that cause one or more processors e.g. processor to perform various functions. Storage device may include any volatile non volatile magnetic optical or electrical media such as a random access memory RAM read only memory ROM non volatile RAM NVRAM electrically erasable programmable ROM EEPROM flash memory or any other digital media. In some embodiments storage device may comprise one or more of a non transitory tangible storage media where the data stored in such media may or may not change e.g. ROM RAM .

User may interact with user interface and or display to execute one or more of applications stored on storage device . User interface may include a keyboard touchscreen mouse trackpad touchpad or other user interface. Display and user interface may be combined such as a touchscreen that executes a graphical or soft keyboard application that provides a keyboard displayed to the user on the touchscreen. Some applications may be executed automatically by device such as when device is turned on or booted up. In response processor executes the one or more applications selected by user or executes the one or more applications executed by device . Processor may include any one or more of a microprocessor a controller a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or equivalent discrete or integrated logic circuitry. Additionally the functions attributed to processor in this disclosure may be embodied as software firmware hardware or any combination thereof.

Processor may execute one or more of applications either alone or simultaneously. Examples of applications include web browsers e mail online social networking applications programs to retrieve stock quotes programs to search for restaurants programs that retrieve current and future weather information games a program to search the Internet a program that provides news a program that provides maps a program that plays music a program that records audio a program that provides driving directions and other programs executed by processor . Applications may be executed based on a request from user and may be terminated based on a request from user . Some applications may be running continuously in the background. Some applications may be executed automatically by device such as at power up and may be terminated automatically by device such as at power down.

Device includes voice call module that allows device to initiate or receive voice calls. In one aspect upon voice call module initiating or receiving a voice call call status propagation module automatically transmits voice call parameters associated with the voice call to a server such as server of or servers of . For example the voice call parameters may include one or more of a telephone number associated with the device that initiated the telephone call a telephone number associated with a device to which the telephone call was directed and a timestamp indicating at least one of a start time and an end time of the call an authentication token that identifies the user and an indicator of whether the call is beginning or ending. As one example call status propagation module includes an HTTP module that automatically sends one or more HTTP messages that include the voice call parameters. As another example call status propagation module includes an SMS module that automatically sends one or more SMS messages that include the voice call parameters. Other message types may be used for sending the voice call parameters in other examples.

In the example in which device sends messages directly to servers for updating status call status sharing module may determine a user status based on voice call parameters obtained from voice call module . Call status sharing module may in some aspects provide the user status to one or more of applications . For example applications may include applications for Facebook Twitter or Google Chat. The applications may format a communication to be sent to one of servers according to the requirements of the respective application . The application may provide the communication having the user status to telemetry module for transmission to the server .

As one example storage device may store application instructions associated with a Google Voice application e.g. application A. User may interact with user interface and or display to execute the Google Voice application. Processor then executes the Google Voice application and causes display to display the application to user . User may then interact with user interface and or display to initiate or receive a voice call. In one example the Google Voice application utilizes data stored on one or more of servers of . In this example telemetry module transmits a request for the data to one or more of servers via network . Display then presents the received content to user .

When user makes a call using the Google Voice application A the Google Voice application A causes telemetry module to transmit a request to one or more of servers such as server A to initiate a voice call. By virtue of the request to server A server A may already have access to the voice call parameters needed to determine a status update for user without device having to send an additional message to server A. Server A may then send additional status update messages to other interested servers to update the user s status with other services according to user configuration settings.

In one aspect user interacts with user interface to configure settings of device for sharing voice call parameters with other devices and or services. The settings for device relating to voice call status may be stored in configuration data config data of call status propagation module . In other examples device may present other messages or settings options to the user such as by allowing the user to select from or add additional online services to which user would like device to provide details of the user s calls.

In the example of server includes control unit network interfaces administrator interface and database . Control unit includes call status module status sharing module and display control module in the example of . Administrator interface allows an administrator to configure server .

Control unit may include any combination of hardware software and or firmware for performing the functions attributed to control unit . For example control unit may include a computer readable storage medium encoded with instructions for call status module status sharing module and display control module as well as a processor that executes the instructions. In another example control unit may include one or more microprocessors digital signal processors DSPs application specific integrated circuits ASICs field programmable gate arrays FPGAs or any other equivalent integrated or discrete logic circuitry as well as any combinations of such components. Similarly any or all of call status module status sharing module and display control module may be functionally integrated.

Network interfaces receive and output data over a network such as the Internet. In one example one of network interfaces may correspond to an interface for receiving data from device or servers . In one example one of network interfaces may correspond to an interface for receiving data from telemetry module of device . In any case input interfaces of network interfaces receive data including voice call parameters. Output interfaces of network interfaces may in various examples include one or more interfaces for outputting data to device or servers . In some examples input and output network interfaces may be functionally integrated while in other examples input and output interfaces may be separate interfaces of network interfaces . For example network interfaces may include one or more network interface cards NICs configured to communicate over for example Ethernet transmission control protocol TCP Internet protocol IP asynchronous transfer mode ATM or other network communication protocols. In some examples server may include a plurality of either or both input and output interfaces.

Call status module executing on control unit may receive voice call parameters that describe at least one characteristic of a voice call in which a user of a device e.g. device is participating. In some aspects call status module receives the voice call parameters by a message from device received at server via one of network interfaces . In other aspects call status module receives the voice call parameters by a message from device as described with respect to . In other aspects call status module receives the voice call parameters from a Google Voice application not shown running on server without requiring a separate message from device . In further aspects call status module may receive a user status message from an intermediate server.

Responsive to receiving the voice call parameters call status module may determine a status of the user based on the received voice call parameters and may provide the determined user status to status sharing module . For example call status sharing module may maintain a history of voice call parameters received for the user e.g. in database and may determine the user status based on an analysis of the history of voice call parameters. When analysis of the history of voice call parameters indicates that the user has started a new call call status module may determine that the user has a busy status. When analysis of the history of voice call parameters indicates that the user has concluded an existing call call status module may determine that the user has a free status. Status sharing module may output status update messages to other servers that indicate the user s status. Status sharing module may determine servers to which to output the status update messages based on user specific configuration data stored in database .

Call status module may additionally or alternatively cause incoming calls to be blocked to another mobile device such as mobile device of based on the received voice call parameters. For example mobile device may belong to the same user as device . In this example aspect server may also determine a status of the user based on the received voice call parameters and modify a user profile in the account for the user to reflect the status of the user. Call status module may identify the mobile device as also being associated with the user and may block incoming voice calls to mobile device responsive to receiving the voice call parameters when the voice call parameters indicate the user is participating in the voice call using the first voice. For example instead of the incoming calls ringing on mobile device the incoming calls may be sent directly to a voice message service associated with mobile device without immediately notifying the user of the incoming voice calls to mobile device . Server may also receive second voice call parameters that describe at least one characteristic of the voice call and responsive to receiving the second voice call parameters may allow incoming voice calls to mobile device when the second voice call parameters indicate the user is no longer participating in the voice call using device .

In some embodiments server may be a server associated with an online application service such as Google or Facebook. In that case server may receive voice call parameters from a device and may similarly determine the user s status or may receive a status update message that indicates the user s status. Display control module may modify a user s profile in an account stored in database associated with the online application service to reflect the status of the user. The user s profile may be displayed by a second different device such as a personal computer or other device. The user s profile is presented by the online server to individuals other than the user e.g. to the user s contacts identified in the user profile. The contacts of the user may be added to the account by the user. For example the user s updated profile may be viewed by the user s friends family members business associates and or acquaintances with whom the user is connected via the online service. In one aspect display control module modifies the user profile to reflect the status of the user and sends the modified user profile from the server to at least one device associated with at least one of the contacts of the user such that the modified user profile is displayable by the device associated with the contact s .

Device begins a voice call using voice call module . For example voice call module may receive an incoming voice call from another device or may initiate an outgoing voice call to another device. Upon beginning the voice call call status sharing module may obtain voice call parameters from voice call module and device automatically sends voice call parameters associated with the voice call to server . The voice call parameters describe at least one characteristic of the voice call in which the client device is engaged. For example the voice call parameters may include one or more of a telephone number associated with a device that initiated the telephone call a telephone number associated with a device to which the telephone was directed a timestamp indicating a start time of the call and an authentication token that allows the server to recognize the user associated with the device. Device may for example send the voice call parameters as an HTTP message using HTTP module or as an SMS message using SMS module . Device sends the voice call parameters as a background task without any action by the user after starting the call.

Server receives the voice call parameters from device via one of interfaces . Call status module of server determines a status of the user based on the received voice call parameters and may provide the determined user status to status sharing module . Status sharing module may output status update messages to other servers that indicate the user s status . Status sharing module may determine servers to which to output the status update messages based on user specific configuration data stored in database . Server A receive a status update message from server and may modify a user profile associated with the user to reflect the status update . The user profile may be stored by server A in database of server A. For example when the user is engaged in a voice call server A may modify the stored user profile to indicate that the user is engaged in a voice call and may also indicate one or more other users engaged in the voice call and duration of the call in progress. Server A may in turn send the stored user profile to another device other than the user s device e.g. when a device requests the user profile to display to an individual other than the user. In this manner device server and server A cooperate to automatically provide a user status update while the user is engaged in a voice call without requiring the user to separately update his or her status.

Server may additionally or alternatively cause incoming calls to be blocked to another mobile device such as mobile device of based on the received voice call parameters . For example mobile device may belong to the same user as device . Instead of the incoming calls ringing on mobile device the incoming calls may be sent directly to voicemail. This allows the user to avoid being interrupted by other incoming calls while the user is engaged in a call on device . Server may determine which other mobile devices to block calls on based on user specific settings saved in database .

Device begins a voice call using voice call module . For example voice call module may receive an incoming voice call from another device or may initiate an outgoing voice call to another device. Upon beginning the voice call call status sharing module may obtain voice call parameters from voice call module and device automatically sends voice call parameters associated with the voice call to server . Device sends the voice call parameters as a background task without any action by the user after starting the call. Server A receives the voice call parameters from device via one of interfaces . Call status module of server A determines a status of the user based on the received voice call parameters and display control module modifies a user profile associated with the user to reflect the status update . For example the user profile may be stored by server A in database of server A. Alternatively device may determine the user status based on the voice call parameters and may send a user status update to server A. Server A may send the stored user profile from server A to another device other than device and the other device may display the user profile to an individual other than the user of device . For example a friend or family member of user may view on the their own computer a modified user profile of user that indicates that user is engaged in a voice call.

Device may also cause incoming calls to be blocked to another mobile device such as mobile device of based on the received voice call parameters either by directly communicating with mobile device or via an intermediate server device.

The techniques described in this disclosure may be implemented at least in part in hardware software firmware or any combination thereof. For example various aspects of the described techniques may be implemented within one or more processors including one or more microprocessors digital signal processors DSPs application specific integrated circuits ASICs field programmable gate arrays FPGAs or any other equivalent integrated or discrete logic circuitry as well as any combinations of such components. The term processor or processing circuitry may generally refer to any of the foregoing logic circuitry alone or in combination with other logic circuitry or any other equivalent circuitry. A control unit including hardware may also perform one or more of the techniques of this disclosure.

Such hardware software and firmware may be implemented within the same device or within separate devices to support the various techniques described in this disclosure. In addition any of the described units modules or components may be implemented together or separately as discrete but interoperable logic devices. Depiction of different features as modules or units is intended to highlight different functional aspects and does not necessarily imply that such modules or units must be realized by separate hardware firmware or software components. Rather functionality associated with one or more modules or units may be performed by separate hardware firmware or software components or integrated within common or separate hardware firmware or software components.

The techniques described in this disclosure may also be embodied or encoded in a computer readable medium such as a computer readable storage medium containing instructions. Instructions embedded or encoded in a computer readable medium including a computer readable storage medium may cause one or more programmable processors or other processors to implement one or more of the techniques described herein such as when instructions included or encoded in the computer readable medium are executed by the one or more processors. Computer readable storage media may include random access memory RAM read only memory ROM programmable read only memory PROM erasable programmable read only memory EPROM electronically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM flash memory a hard disk a compact disc ROM CD ROM a floppy disk a cassette magnetic media optical media or other computer readable media. In some examples an article of manufacture may comprise one or more computer readable storage media.

Various embodiments of this disclosure have been described. These and other embodiments are within the scope of the following claims.

