---

title: High speed, high current pulsed driver circuit
abstract: Various technologies presented herein relate to driving a LED such that the LED emits short duration pulses of light. This is accomplished by driving the LED with short duration, high amplitude current pulses. When the LED is driven by short duration, high amplitude current pulses, the LED emits light at a greater amplitude compared to when the LED is driven by continuous wave current.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09603210&OS=09603210&RS=09603210
owner: Sandia Corporation
number: 09603210
owner_city: Albuquerque
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20151224
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 62 096 608 filed on Dec. 24 2014 and entitled HIGH SPEED HIGH CURRENT PULSED LED DRIVER the entirety of which is incorporated herein by reference.

This invention was developed under contract DE AC04 94AL85000 between Sandia Corporation and the U.S. Department of Energy. The U.S. Government has certain rights in this invention.

A beam of bright light can be required for certain applications. A laser can be utilized to provide such light but laser light is both coherent and monochromatic which can lead to the light interfering with itself and giving rise to a phenomenon of laser speckle . Laser speckle can be problematic with imaging applications such as Schlieren photography and can be difficult to remove and or minimize. A further problem may be that an experiment may desirably include use of light of a particular wavelength however an available laser may emit light of a different wavelength. Still further lasers may be very expensive.

Xenon arc lamps can be substitutes for lasers in certain scenarios. However a xenon arc lamp generates white light accordingly if some other wavelength is to be employed in an experimental setting then the light emitted by the xenon arc lamp must be filtered which may result in inefficiencies and or cause light coupling issues. Moreover xenon arc lights cannot be pulsed.

The following is a brief summary of subject matter that is described in greater detail herein. This summary is not intended to be limiting as to the scope of the claims.

Described herein are various technologies related to causing a light emitting diode LED which may optionally be a high power LED or laser diode LD to emit short duration pulses. With more particularity a driver circuit can drive the LED with short duration high current pulses where the driver circuit can be bipolar a 2 quadrant positive voltage positive or negative current driver circuit. In an example optical pulses can have a duration of less than about 20 ns for a 1 mmLED and down to about 10 ns or less for a high power LED with relative peak optical power 1.0 where relative optical power Prel is defined with optical power Po and some reference current density Jref as Prel Po Po Jref and for a high power LED Jref 0.35 A mm . Further in an example the driver circuit and LED etc. can be integrated with a heatsink into an assembly.

In another exemplary embodiment pulsed current provided to the LED can be scaled up by configuring the driver circuits in parallel. Utilization of the driver circuit or driver circuits in parallel to drive the LED with short duration high current pulses where the current amplitude is significantly greater than e.g. 20 or more greater than the maximum continuous current rating of the LED causes the LED to generate light with greater intensity higher brightness compared to when the LED is driven by continuous wave CW current at its maximum rating . The operation with short duration high current pulses where the current amplitude is significantly greater than the maximum continuous current rating of the LED can be referred to as pulsed overdrive or overdrive .

The driver circuit can be designed to improve the minimum achievable optical pulse duration emitted by LEDs compared to known minimum achievable optical pulse durations e.g. for high power LEDs . There are various techniques for improving this pulse duration which will be described in greater detail below.

Also described herein is a system that includes a densely packed array of differently colored LED chips which can be controlled to generate light of multiple colors. The driving of the LED chips by multiple independent driver channels can be independently timed and as the chips are densely packed light emitted from the array of chips emanates as if from a nearly coincident source.

Furthermore in an example a system that includes one or more driver circuits that drives the LED can be a configurable system that comprises a matrix of switches. The switches can be controlled to connect and disconnect sub parts of the system into various combinations thereby allowing for different operational modes.

In yet another exemplary embodiment a system that includes the LED and the driver circuits that drives the LED can be configurable such that the LED can be driven in a continuous wave mode or pulsed mode. Constant current utilized to drive the LED can be regulated by a primary power supply or by an auxiliary power supply.

The above presents a simplified summary in order to provide a basic understanding of some aspects of the systems and or methods discussed herein. This summary is not an extensive overview of the systems and or methods discussed herein. It is not intended to identify key critical elements or to delineate the scope of such systems and or methods. Its sole purpose is to present some concepts in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.

Various technologies are presented herein pertaining to utilizing a high speed high current pulsed driver circuit to operate a diode e.g. light emitting diode LED or a laser diode LD wherein like reference numerals are used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of one or more aspects. It may be evident however that such aspect s may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing one or more aspects.

Further the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or . That is unless specified otherwise or clear from the context the phrase X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is the phrase X employs A or B is satisfied by any of the following instances X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B. In addition the articles a and an as used in this application and the appended claims should generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from the context to be directed to a singular form. Additionally as used herein the term exemplary is intended to mean serving as an illustration or example of something and is not intended to indicate a preference.

Described herein are various technologies related to a high speed high current pulsed driver circuit wherein the driver circuit can be configured to allow for a LED or LD both of which are referred to hereafter as LED to emit light with greater intensity brightness or optical flux when compared to continuous wave CW light emitted by LEDs using conventional driver circuits. The various embodiments presented herein can be utilized with various science engineering and R D applications such as high speed imaging Schlieren stop motion imaging particle image velocimetry etc. as well as new measurement techniques that are otherwise possible only with far more expensive and or physically larger light sources typically requiring a more complex optical setup.

In an exemplary embodiment the driver circuit can be characterized as being a bi polar driver circuit in that the driver circuit can be a 2 quadrant positive voltage positive and negative current driver circuit. Exemplary non limiting instantiations of such a circuit are presented herein.

More specifically the driver circuit can be or include a complementary metal oxide semiconductor CMOS power inverter e.g. in combination with other circuit elements . Further the driver circuit may include a trigger input inverter and a level translator which may translate voltage amplitude and or polarity . These components enable trigger input signal voltage levels e.g. from an external square wave pulse generator to be at levels that are typical for digital logic systems e.g. from about 0 to 1.1V low logic level to about 2.0 to 5.0V high logic level . In an embodiment the CMOS power inverter and the input inverter e.g. which may optionally include a level translator can together be characterized as a metal oxide semiconductor field effect transistor MOSFET gate driver integrated circuit IC in the driver circuit .

As indicated above the LED emits short duration light optical pulses. As further described herein the fall time a pulse emitted by the LED is improved reduced in comparison with the fall time achievable with a conventional system e.g. a unipolar forward current drive only driver circuit. This can be accomplished by shunting stored charge from the LED to ground when the LED is to cease emitting light. For example the typical fall time for a 1 mmLED under unipolar drive at 1.5 amperes may be at least 70 ns. In contrast the fall time achievable through use of the driver circuit applied to the same LED and conditions is 550 ns. Accordingly at least a 30 improvement in fall time can be achieved when using the driver circuit as further described an improvement in the shape of the falling edge of the pulse can also be achieved e.g. the falling edge has a shape that is more square compared to an exponential decay shape as obtained with unipolar drive .

As will be depicted below a power supply either a positive or negative power supply can emit a direct current DC power supply voltage Vdd where the pulse current amplitude applied to the LED by the driver circuit can be a function of Vdd. Still further the driver circuit can be configured with an output enable disable function and with a possibly corresponding external input . With more particularity another signal source can be arranged to provide a control signal that by being directed to the input which controls the output enable disable function can control when the driver circuit is able to direct current to the LED . In this case when the control signal disables the output the output is caused to be in a high impedance state e.g. tri state such as in a typical digital bus driver buffer device effectively disconnecting the LED from the driver circuit .

While the system depicts a single driver circuit it is to be understood that the system can include multiple driver circuits e.g. arranged in parallel as independently triggerable channels etc. . Utilizing the parallel case of such an arrangement the pulse current provided to the LED can be scaled up by a factor of n when paralleling a plurality n of driver circuits . Further more than one LED can be driven by the plurality of driver circuits. Bridging two or more m already paralleled groups of driver circuits to further scale up output pulse current by a factor of m for a total of n m the output pulse current capability of a single channel can be accomplished through use of a master in master out slave out architecture MI MOSI . To allow for monitoring or measuring of the instantaneous pulse current e.g. by other integrated circuitry or external circuitry a current sense circuit such as a resistor can be placed between the cathode of the LED and ground or between the common current return node bus and ground in the case of a system of several drivers whether operating independently or in parallel . The circuitry used to monitor or measure the instantaneous pulse current can include a low pass filter which may be of any suitable type. This circuitry may be particularly well suited when the LED is a high power LED.

The LED by virtue of being driven by the driver circuit which emits short duration high current pulses can emit light pulses that have a higher brightness intensity or optical flux when compared to intensity of light emitted by a LED when being driven by continuous wave CW current. For example the. LED can be driven by a pulse current that has an amplitude that is in excess of the CW maximum allowed forward current overdrive . Further Vdd referenced above can be varied to regulate pulse current.

Failure of the LED when being over driven by the driver circuit and possible subsequent failure of the driver circuit itself can be prevented by regulating limiting or otherwise controlling the instantaneous real time shot to shot and or average values of various operating parameters of the LED and driver circuit to safe values. These safe values can be determined by collecting and utilizing characterization data from a system comprising a LED and driver circuit over a range of input and output parameter values. With reference to a circuit is depicted wherein the circuit indicates that the system optionally further includes a protection circuit to prevent or greatly reduce the likelihood of the LED and or driver circuit being damaged or destroyed by automatically dynamically or instantaneously performing one or more protection operations including 1 cutting off the LED drive by gating the trigger input signal 2 cutting off the LED drive by disabling one or more outputs of the driver circuit e.g. put into high Z state or 3 controlling Vdd. The protection circuit can be configured to perform a protection operation based upon 1 real time measurements of the instantaneous and or average values of various LED or driver system input or output parameters 2 predicted average junction temperature 3 predicted instantaneous junction temperature and or 4 other predicted conceptions of damage thresholds of the LED . The predictions referenced above can be made based upon stored characterization data and further based upon a heat transfer physics model a heuristic model empirically determined characterization data or the like. The protection circuit can be a digital logic circuit an analog logic circuit a mixed signal circuit e.g. ADC DAC etc. or other suitable module. Further the protection circuit can be included in implemented as or be controlled by a microcontroller a microprocessor etc.

Through utilization of the driver circuit in conjunction with the LED the minimum achievable optical pulse duration can be improved relative to conventional LED operation e.g. while using bipolar drive to drive the LED . Various techniques are contemplated to facilitate such improvement. For instance Vdd can be increased e.g. as the driver circuit has greater output slew rate as Vdd increases . Another technique is to place a plurality of LEDs in series and cause the driver circuit or parallel driver circuits to drive the series connected LEDs. In an embodiment a number of series connected LEDs can be chosen such that the forward voltage Vf of the LEDs is approximately matched to the loaded driver output voltage where the driver circuit achieves maximum slew rate. Further a value of Vdd can be chosen such that the chosen value of Vdd corresponds to the maximum slew rate.

In yet another embodiment the LED can be connected to the driver circuit via a low impedance transmission line. The transmission line can include multiple e.g. 2 or more of each of LED anode wires and LED cathode wires. These wires can be in any suitable configuration e.g. in a braided combination in a parallel arrangement such as a ribbon cable with alternating anode cathode wires multiple parallel coax cables etc. e.g. as further represented in .

In a further embodiment as further described the pulse duration of the driver circuit can be optimized e.g. to a shortest possible output pulse based upon adjusting the trigger signal amplitude such that it barely crosses the input switching threshold. Moreover optical pulse duration can be optimized by incorporating a variable DC power supply into the system e.g. as Vcc powering buffer in such that a constant input trigger pulse amplitude is able to be converted e.g. as by in into a variable amplitude internal trigger signal to be applied to the inputs of the power driver sub circuits e.g. in the driver circuit and as the signals from the outputs of buffer in . Further high speed digital or radio frequency RF printed circuit board PCB layout techniques can be utilized.

When multiple driver circuit channels are arranged in parallel the optical pulse duration can be optimized at least in part by matching timing characteristics of the multiple driver channels and or sub systems of the driver circuit . This can be accomplished by characterizing individual drivers and paralleling them in matched sets according to propagation delays or rise fall times e.g. as a function of power supply voltage or as a function of load characteristics. Yet another technique that can be employed to reduce the optical pulse duration is matching trigger signal electrical path lengths to the driver channel inputs. In another example when MI MOSI bridging two or more systems e.g. as shown circuit which depicts bridging of just two such systems by matching the electrical path length from the master primary buffer output to the parallel channels input node i.e. the path from the output of buffer B BUF through jumper JP to jumper JP with the electrical path length from the master auxiliary buffer output to the slave parallel channels input node e.g. the path from the output of A BUF through jumper JP to master output J through the external connection from master output J to the slave input J through jumper JP finally to jumper JP .

As further described herein and shown in circuit the system can be configured such that light pulses of multiple colors that are independently timed can be emitted from a nearly coincident source. This can be accomplished by multiple driver circuits driving multiple LEDs A that emit different colors of light in a densely packed array of LED chips LED . LEDs can be incorporated into a densely packed array e.g. as an individual LED dice packed into a multi color array in a single emitter substrate package. Independent timing of each LED A can be achieved by having each color driven by its own driver s channel A each with its own trigger input J Jn.

Further as shown in circuit the system can optionally include a matrix of switches which connect driver circuits or sub parts of the driver circuits into various combinations such that different operational modes may be set. The switches can be user configurable to enable modifying the function of the system into various modes. The switches can be mechanical electromechanical or electronic types or jumpers and manually or electronically controlled. The switches can be configured to implement various functionality described herein and or combinations of functionalities. A switch configuration can be utilized to combine N channels of driver circuits in a variety of possible combinations of parallel vs. single channel groups to create M individually triggerable channel groups. Further the switch configuration can enable mapping of M input trigger signals to the inputs of M driver channels or groups and mapping the outputs of those groups to the anodes of various combinations of individual series or parallel combinations of LEDs wherein the LEDs can be single colored or multi colored e.g. in an array. For example as shown in circuit the switch configuration can enable mapping the input trigger signal through optional buffers inverters or logic gates such as to interface with the IO signals of a protection circuit e.g. as shown in gate . The switch configuration can enable mapping the input trigger signal through optional buffers inverters or logic gates to send a buffered version of the trigger input signal back out of the system e.g. to implement MI MISO bridging for example as shown in .

The switch configuration can enable mapping the input trigger signal through optional buffers inverters or logic gates to enable mapping an input signal to another function such as connecting to an output enable control signal of the driver circuits as shown in circuit and further in circuit . This particular configuration can be used to allow when the output is actually disabled via this means a constant current CC source to be injected into the output to operate the LED in continuous wave CW mode to calibrate align optics etc. where otherwise there may be circuit or other system limitations which preclude operating the LED other than in pulsed mode. In other words this approach can be used when the LED is unable to be operated CW via the simpler approach which is described below LED operated in CW mode and it is desirable to work around this limitation without having to physically disconnect the LED or insert other components into the output circuitry to achieve CW operational mode. This can occur as a particular example when COTS MOSFET Driver ICs are used which include an under voltage lockout UVLO function that makes the system unable to be operated in CW mode simply by using an external power supply current regulation function and with holding the trigger input at the ON level. In an aspect the LED forward voltage Vf is lower than the UVLO turn on voltage. Hence in an exemplary embodiment when operating CW with CC current injection into the disabled output Vdd can be provided and have an electrical voltage both greater than Vf by at least approximately 0.7V and greater than the UVLO turn on voltage.

In still yet another exemplary embodiment the LED can be operated in CW mode while connected to the driver circuit . In such an embodiment constant current CC can be regulated by the main power supply. The regulated CC can be provided by having the power supply be of the current limiting regulating type which is normally a voltage supply but which includes a current limit setpoint which when the load attempts to demand current in excess of this limit causes the power supply to operate instead in constant current regulating mode and by providing a constant ON trigger input signal level while avoiding LED damage from an excessive initial current spike by adjusting the power supply voltage to a level just slightly above the voltage needed to provide the specified current magnitude while accounting for the voltage drops through the driver circuit in addition to the LED Vf. The regulated CC can also be provided by powering the LED with CC provided by an auxiliary power supply where the current is injected into the output channel of the driver circuit while commanding signaling the driver circuit to have its output disabled in a high impedance state . Further the driver circuit can be powered by the main power supply so that the signal paths which permit disabling the output stage are operational and with sufficient voltage so that the CC provided by the auxiliary source does not flow back into the output channel of the driver circuit through internal protection or substrate LEDs etc. . Alternately CW LED operation can also be arranged by first connecting the LED to the driver via a series diode where the driver output connects to the diode anode the diode cathode to the LED anode and LED cathode connects as normally to the driver return terminal and then injecting the CC into the output circuit at the node where the LED anode joins with the diode s cathode with current provided by an auxiliary CC regulating power supply.

Further the driver circuit or multiple driver circuits and a heat sink can be integrated into an assembly. The heat sink can include one or more mechanical mounting features for attaching LEDs with good thermal contact such as threaded or unthreaded hole patterns etc. The mounting features can have geometry dimensions compatible with standard LED mountings such as 19 20 mm star MCPCBs and or with certain geometry dimensions compatible with proprietary LED mountings. The mechanical mounting features can enable attaching optics and or optic holders wherein such optics include lenses parabolic or ellipsoidal reflectors etc. The mechanical mounting features can also be optical cage rod systems which can serve to mount optic holders thereby enabling positioning of optic holders with adjustable distance from the LED emitting aperture so as to adjust and fix focus or other optical parameters while maintaining the optic axis co linear with the central LED normal axis. The mounting features can be configured to attach other accessories such as cooling fans additional electronic circuit functional assemblies terminal blocks for making electrical connections etc. The mechanical mounting features can be further configured to facilitate attaching the heat sink assembly to other devices and components wherein the mechanical mounting features can include threaded or unthreaded hole patterns notches grooves etc. in various locations to enable mounting in a variety of ways.

Now referring solely to a circuit is illustrated that facilitates driving the LED with current pulsed with relatively short pulses e.g. in the range of 20 100 nanoseconds to several microseconds or more . The circuit comprises the LED and the driver circuit wherein the driver circuit is configured to control operation of the LED . As further described herein the circuit can be modified to include several LEDs where each of the LEDs can be pulsed with a relatively high current and at relatively high speeds. Further as noted above the LED may be labeled as being a high power LED.

The circuit further comprises a direct current DC voltage source which is configured to output voltage e.g. ranging between about 4.5 volts to about 40 volts . The circuit further comprises a trigger source wherein the trigger source is configured to generate a pulsed trigger signal . Generally the driver circuit is controlled by the pulsed trigger signal output by the trigger source . In an example the pulsed trigger signal can have a square wave profile. Further the pulsed trigger signal can range from about 0 to 1.1 volts when low to about 2.5 5.0 volts when high. Moreover in an example the pulsed trigger signal can be of a variety of types capable of producing pulses in which the high time on or true duration may range from 8 nanoseconds up to several microseconds or greater including up to continuously on i.e. any arbitrary value repeated at any frequency ranging from arbitrarily low values e.g. any lower bound 1 Hz 0.1 Hz 0.001 Hz etc. up to several megahertz e.g. the example circuits typically can operate at an upper bound of frequency of about 2 to 5 MHz while providing at least 95 modulation and typically 99 modulation .

The driver circuit is configured to provide a relatively high current where the current is pulsed with timing that is based upon the pulsed trigger signal . As illustrated in an exemplary embodiment the driver circuit can include MOSFETs and can further include a bipolar 2 quadrant CMOS inverter power output stage. A level translation stage within the driver circuit can allow the trigger signal source to output the pulsed trigger signal such that when high the pulsed trigger signal can have a standard logic voltage level such as 2.5 to 5V for easy interfacing to external systems. Voltage generated at the DC voltage source meanwhile can be varied to indirectly control the peak drive current provided to the LED . As shown in the driver circuit can include an nMOS transistor and a pMOS transistor where gates of the transistors and are electrically connected to the trigger signal source . The driver circuit can optionally include an inverter or buffer which may also incorporate the function s of a level translator s from the input logic level voltage range to the ranges required internally to properly drive the gates of the output stage power MOSFETs disposed between the trigger signal source and the gates of the transistors and .

The drains of the transistors and are electrically connected to the anode of the LED . The cathode of the LED further is electrically connected to the ground or negative power supply node which is connected to the negative terminal of DC voltage source . Also connected to the ground are the source of the transistor a negative terminal of a capacitor and the negative side of trigger signal source as shown in . More specifically the cathode of the LED is electrically coupled to the ground along with the source of the nMOS transistor such that when also considering the connection of the LED anode to the drain of nMOS these connections form a low side output current loop L. The cathode of the LED is electrically coupled to the ground as is the negative terminal of the capacitor and also considering that the positive terminal of the capacitor is connected to the positive power supply node along with the drain of the pMOS thus forms a high side output current loop H. Current flows through the low side loop when the nMOS transistor is switched on and the pMOS transistor is switched off and current flows through the high side loop when the pMOS transistor is switched on and the nMOS transistor is switched off . The circuit further comprises a resistor coupled to the drains of the transistors and and further coupled to the anode of the LED . In an example the resistor can have a resistance of about 0.1 to about 0.2 ohms .

The circuit additionally comprises the capacitor placed in parallel with the DC voltage source where the capacitor is included in the high side loop. When the pMOS transistor is switched on initially charge stored at the capacitor is released as current directed into the anode of the LED via the pMOS transistor but after the initial rising edge of the output voltage the current is drawn from power supply . For example the capacitor supplies current only during output transitions L H of the output voltage pulse but steady flows of current come from the power supply .

The circuit node comprising primarily the driver output comprising the drains of and the LED anode and optionally resistor which for the purpose of the immediate discussion may be considered as part of the wire connecting the LED anode to the driver output also includes unavoidable stray or parasitic capacitance as well as the intrinsic junction capacitance of the LED which may be the dominant capacitance wherein these capacitances and the sum total of their effects is represented by the capacitor .

Operation of the circuit is now described. The pulsed trigger source outputs the pulsed trigger signal which in this example is inverted by the inverter . An inverted signal is directed to the gates of the pMOS and nMOS transistors and turning one of the transistors on while simultaneously turning the other transistor off. When the pMOS transistor is switched on when signal is low and thus the nMOS transistor is switched off current exiting the first capacitor enters the source of the pMOS transistor thereby causing current to exit the drain of the pMOS transistor . Such current passes through the resistor and is directed to the anode of the LED . Current exits the LED by way of its cathode and is directed back to the first capacitor e.g. during the time it takes for the voltage to rise at the output LED anode then steady state current comes from voltage source . During the brief time that the turn on current in the high side loop is being supplied by the capacitor as the voltage at the LED anode rises it is primarily capacitor Cj that is being charged. Likewise during the brief time that the turn off current in the low side loop flows in reverse as the voltage at the LED anode declines back toward zero it is primarily capacitor that is being discharged.

When the nMOS transistor is switched on when signal is high and thus the pMOS transistor is switched off charge stored in capacitor flows out of the anode terminal of the LED into the drain of the nMOS transistor and is then directed to ground finally returning to the LED cathode terminal . Likewise the DC voltage source and the capacitor are coupled to ground. Using the driver circuit the LED can be cycled on and off relatively quickly e.g. on the order of tens of nanoseconds as noted above . In other words the driver circuit can rapidly cause a relative large amount of current to be delivered to the LED followed by an as quickly as possible drop in current to zero. If the driver circuit included only the pMOS transistor e.g. with no lower nMOS transistor only a fast rise in forward current at the LED can occur as the LED would effectively be able to only be connected to the DC power source and capacitor through the pMOS transistor e.g. only the high side loop. Internal physics of the LED cause the light emission to decay as pairs of charge carriers in the LED junction recombine in the absence of an externally applied electric field. Such natural decay results in a slow decline in light output from the LED e.g. on the order of a few hundred nanoseconds in comparison with the LED turning on with high side drive in 10s of nanoseconds. Accordingly the pulse shape at the LED would be a characteristic pulse shape comprising a relatively square rising edge a flat top and then a slowly decaying falling edge e.g. exponential like decay . Owing to junction capacitance other stray capacitance and inductance it is not possible to instantaneously start or stop current from flowing through the LED in such an arrangement.

Thus the nMOS transistor and corresponding low side loop are employed to accelerate the decay of the light emission at the LED . Utilizing the configurations presented herein the nMOS transistor connects the anode of the LED to ground when the LED ceases light transmission. Accordingly current can flow out of the LED to ground rapidly discharging the junction capacitance resulting in a very rapid decline of light output at the LED . Utilizing the nMOS transistor e.g. in combination with the pMOS transistor enables charge carriers to escape the LED through the anode and cathode thereof as opposed to re combining at the junction of the LED which would cause the LED to continue emitting light in an undesired slow decay. Therefore the optical pulse emitted by the LED has a shape comprising a fast rising edge a flat top and then a fast falling edge e.g. the light emitted from the LED substantially conforms to a square wave . In other words the bipolar circuitry of the driver circuit enables the LED to be quickly turned ON and OFF enabling the pulse width during light transmission to be reduced to a range of nanoseconds as opposed to approximately hundreds of nanosecond s range achievable with a unipolar high side only driver circuit. At the limits of achievable short optical pulse duration e.g. approximately 5 ns however the pulse shape approaches that of an exponential rise and fall as well as undergoing diminishing amplitude.

In an exemplary embodiment the circuit can be placed on a printed circuit board PCB which in turn can be located on a heat sink . While the circuit illustrates a configuration that includes a single driver circuit and LED as described above a plurality of LEDs and or a plurality of driver circuits can be mounted on a same PCB. Multiple LEDs driver circuits and other associated circuitry can be manufactured on several PCBs which can be assembled on a heat sink while also being electrically connected to each other and various LED packages. In a non limiting example the LED can be mounted at one end of the heat sink with at least a portion of the driver circuit mounted on the PCB to optimize electrical and thermal performance. Further when multiple PCBs are used the PCBs can be oriented so as to not impede the natural convection air flow through the heat sink. The heat sink can include mechanical features to interface with standard opto mechanical mounting systems such as optic mounts posts and cage rod systems and can also have a cooling fan mounted thereon. The LED mounting surface and other mechanical features can provide the ability to precisely mount and position optics for collecting and manipulating the light emitted from the LED along with the ability to integrate the system into larger apparatuses.

To enable peak intensity flux or radiance levels to be achieved that are several multiples of that which the LED can produce in continuous wave CW operation the peak output current delivered to the LED by the driver circuit can be permitted to exceed the maximum continuous forward current ratings of the LED by a multiple such as 1 30 times the maximum continuous forward current ratings of the LED .

Operating the LED with such multiples of high maximum continuous forward current ratings can be tolerated by a typical high power LED for short pulse durations and low duty ratios provided that the average and instantaneous thermal stresses as well as instantaneous current density to which the junction and die attachments of the LED are subjected to do not exceed maximums where specified or otherwise determined as a pulsed overdrive damage threshold e.g. via experimental characterization or as otherwise estimated or predicted .

Utilizing a driver circuit circuit with bipolar drive the nMOS transistor in the driver circuit can shunt stored charge from the LED to ground during turn OFF transitions resulting in faster and squarer turn OFF transitions versus transitions obtained from a single ended 1 quadrant or source current only driver circuit. Furthermore in contrast to slower pulse performance observed when driving single large area LEDs the various embodiments presented herein enable much shorter pulses with improved brightness to be achieved by instead driving a LED package containing several smaller series connected LEDs. This can permit higher supply voltages to be used resulting in faster driver output slew rates before reaching the highest non destructive LED current densities.

It can be challenging to achieve optical pulses shorter than about 100 nanoseconds ns with peak flux at least as great as the manufacturer specified CW flux for a given high power LED with die area of 1 sq. mm or larger. For 1 sq. mm LEDs achieving pulses ranging from about 50 ns down to 16 20 ns becomes respectively very challenging to nearly impossible. This is partly because high power LEDs have high capacitance due to large junction areas and also high parasitic inductance can be present due to the fact that the LED packages are manufactured primarily for continuous wave CW lighting applications and hence are not optimized to minimize the electrical circuit loop area. Additional difficulty arises from the mismatch between the typical forward voltages of LEDs e.g. 2.2 to 3.6V and the power supply voltage levels at which typical gate driver ICs in cases where such ICs are used as the implantation of attain their fastest transition time performance which is usually near their maximum allowed supply voltage 18 to 40V .

In order to avoid contributing to the obstacles which restrain the possibilities for obtaining fast pulse performance from high power LEDs a PCB that includes the driver circuit can be designed to 

1. utilize one or more pairs of closely spaced solid copper power supply planes located as close as possible to each other and to the outer PCB surface on which the driver circuits are mounted 

2. apply one or more techniques for minimizing the parasitic inductance of the interconnects between power planes and bulk storage bypass capacitors and the connections of the power planes to the gate driver IC power and ground terminals 

4. utilize via in pad VIP PCB fabrication technology to most effectively minimize parasitic inductances.

A number of concepts regarding the various embodiments presented herein are now described with reference to which depicts an exemplary circuit . In order to produce greater peak pulse currents and shorter minimum pulse durations than may be obtained from a single driver circuit e.g. a larger and thus slower driver circuit operating in isolation a plurality of LED driver circuits A can be utilized and connected in parallel where n is a positive integer. As shown any number of driver circuits can be utilized.

Outputs of the driver circuits A are connected to the anode of a single LED as represented in or a series stack of LEDs A or some other combination such as parallel parallel strings of series etc. . The driver circuits are driven by the trigger signal generator and or by a buffer e.g. a Schmitt trigger input buffer level translator etc.

The parallel output connections from the driver circuits A sum the currents from each respective driver circuits A . Accordingly if n driver circuits rated for X amperes are utilized then the total output current from the driver circuits A can be up to n X amperes.

Parasitic inductance in the driver output of the driver circuits can be a significant limiting factor regarding the rise and fall times of the LED ON OFF transitions. The parallel connection of the driver circuits A can reduce the total output circuit inductance as compared with the total output circuit inductance when utilizing a single driver circuit e.g. driver circuit operating in isolation or where the driver circuit is constructed so as to be capable of the same total output current n X . The parasitic inductances of each respective channel are indicated by inductors Lp Lpn. Accordingly a portion of the total output circuit inductance at the output channel can therefore be significantly reduced.

Further minimization of the output circuit inductance can be achieved by utilizing a low impedance transmission line interconnect between the outputs of the driver circuits A and the LED anode. The interconnect can be a low impedance multi conductor transmission line interconnect e.g. comprising multiple parallel conductors such as a ribbon cable with alternating ground signal ground signal etc. or by braiding the n driver output wires with multiple return current wires or as a group of parallel coaxial cables as previously described .

Mismatch between the propagation delays as well as the rise and fall times of individual driver circuits A can broaden output pulses as well as enable potentially destructive cross conduction currents to flow when paralleling multiple driver channel outputs. These issues can be to some degree addressed by utilizing sets of driver circuits A that have been individually characterized and subsequently matched for minimum spread of propagation delays and rise fall times to reduce the speed degrading effect and accordingly increase optimize the minimum achievable pulse durations.

Another technique to optimize for the fastest possible performance is to drive series connected LEDs where the choice of the number m of LEDs is such that the forward voltage of the load near peak operating current is matched as well as possible with the output voltage of the LED driver circuits A and the associated supply voltage Vdd of the DC power supply where the LED driver circuits A exhibit their optimal output slew rates.

Further gross mismatch of peak currents between the driver channels can be avoided by utilizing current sharing resistors Ro Ron on the individual driver circuit outputs e.g. prior to the outputs being combined . The output resistors can have any suitable resistance rating to minimize or negate peak current mismatch of the driver circuit outputs for example the output resistors Ro Ron can have a respective resistance value in the range of about 0.1 to about 1.0 . In a configuration where LEDs A are several different colored LEDs each with independent driver channels and understanding that different colored LEDs have different Vf If characteristics the values of Ro Ron may instead be made different from each other to match either the currents in the channels or the effective radiometric or photometric brightness of the differently colored LEDs A 

High speed high current driver circuits may produce switching transients which may couple noise glitches out of the driver circuit s input terminals e.g. respectively identified . To prevent the switching transients which might couple out of a driver circuit s input from contributing noise to the inputs of the other drivers input isolation resistors Ri Ri Ri and Rin can be placed near the respective driver circuit input terminals . The input resistors can have any suitable resistance rating to facilitate isolation of the driver ICs A for example the input resistors Ri Rin can have a respective resistance value in the range of about 10 to about 100 .

A current sense resistor Rs can also be utilized optionally in conjunction with a low pass filter LPF . Utilizing the current sense resistor develops a voltage signal V I e.g. across test points and which is proportional to the LED forward current I. In an embodiment the voltage signal V I where Iis also referred to as If herein can be utilized e.g. with any suitable device such as an oscilloscope not shown to determine measure the LED pulse current I. In another embodiment the voltage signal V I can be utilized to dynamically prevent LED damage wherein the damage prevention can be performed in conjunction with any suitable device e.g. protection circuitry to which the signal V I may be provided. The current sense resistor can have any suitable resistance rating to facilitate measurement of the LED pulse current I for example the current sense resistor can have a respective resistance value in the range of about 0.02 to about 0.2 wherein the voltage signal V I for measurement of Ican have a value of about 0.02 V A to about 0.2 V A or lower higher respectively .

The individual channels of one or more driver PCBs may be paralleled to achieve a higher drive current than that provided by a single channel. Paralleling channels allows the total drive current to scale linearly with the number of channels. By utilizing one or more driver PCBs with channels paralleled in various ways it is possible to drive an arbitrary number of LEDs or groups of series connected. LEDs each with a unique color including any visible color as well as near IR and UV A to about 365 nm and where each color has independently triggered pulse timing. presents a schematic diagram for an exemplary driver circuit with four independent channels each capable of A of pulse current. Thus when such a quad channel system has its output paralleled by connecting J J and J the sum total output pulse current may be up to 120 A.

In another exemplary embodiment the driver PCB can include a variable voltage supply Vcc for powering an optional input buffer stage prior to the driver circuit input. presents a schematic diagram for an exemplary working implementation it is to be noted that to enable presentation of the circuit in accordance with USPTO requirements circuit has been separated between circuits A C however the circuits A C are to be read as a single circuit and accordingly are collectively referred to herein as . By adjusting the voltage supply or the amplitude of an external signal source directly connected to the gate driver input and configured to generate a very short input trigger pulse of 8 40 ns e.g. as typical values it is possible to just cross the input switching threshold of the gate driver for a period of time significantly shorter than the full width at half maximum FWHM width of the trigger pulse. Using this adjustment technique in addition to adjusting the power supply voltage to the gate driver output stage in an exploratory manner while monitoring the light output with a photo LED and oscilloscope it is possible to obtain shorter optical pulses from the LED than what would be produced with input trigger pulses that swing to a full 5V or whatever value is the full specified normal range of the trigger input .

A dual buffered master in master out and unbuffered slave in circuit or MI MOSI system architecture can enable paralleling the drivers from two or more driver PCBs or other types of constructions while also minimizing timing skew between groups of paralleled channels and employing trigger input signal dual buffering to avoid excessive loading of the trigger signal source. further presents an exemplary working implementation. The circuit shown in can also include an enable EN input which when pulled low puts all of the driver output channels into a high impedance state. This EN input may be employed by an add on protection circuit module such as implemented as an attachable daughter board which can help avoid LED damage which can result from high current pulses of too great a duration too high current amplitude etc.

Optional continuous wave operation of the LED can be valuable for various purposes such as optical setup as well as possibly being essential for performing calibration aspects of LED driver system radiometric or photometric characterization procedures. Continuous wave operation is possible with the circuits presented in wherein an associated LED connected to a the driver system output s can be powered with a constant current CC regulated power supply set to a suitable test current typically as specified in a datasheet of the LED a voltage slightly greater than the LED forward voltage at the selected current and by providing the trigger input with a steady high level. However this technique may fail if for example the IXYS IXD  gate driver ICs are utilized in and in which the IXD  incorporates an under voltage lockout feature whose voltage threshold is greater than the LED Vf. Thus the EN input feature can facilitate another approach to CW operation which can also work when such IXD  or similar ICs or other driver circuit implementations also including features or limitations precluding CW operation of the LED via the method described above are used. In this case CW can be attained by disabling the driver outputs such that the outputs are in a high impedance state and applying an external source of constant current directly into the driver output terminals such that the CC then flows into the LED anode .

As previously mentioned a protection circuit can be included in one or more circuits presented herein to prevent failure of the LED and or the driver circuit . As shown in circuit presents a LED protection circuit module integrated with LED driver system. The circuit comprises a plurality of previously described components operating in conjunction the LED and a driver circuit . As shown the driver circuit includes a driver channel s in conjunction with an AND gate or other logic which allows the protection circuit to inhibit the trigger signal from reaching the input of the driver channel . A photoreceiver can be included in circuit which is configured to sense a portion of the light output from LED the . Circuit further comprises a DC power supply Vdd and further a trigger pulse signal source producing square wave pulses to command LED driver to turn LED on off. Signals that can be measured and or utilized by the protection circuit to determine an instantaneous well being condition of the LED include TRIG MON sample of trigger signal V If signal representing instantaneous LED current at the LED Vf signal representing instantaneous LED forward voltage Po signal from photoreceiver representing instantaneous LED optical power output Temp signal representing temperature of LED emitter substrate or heat sink upon which the LED is located Vdd DC power supply voltage signal. Signals which can be calculated and or output by the protection circuit can include TRIG GATE signal which may be made logically false to cut off power to the LED overriding the trigger signal if this is necessary to prevent LED destruction or damage EN enable signal to driver s which may be made logically false to cut off power to the LED if this is necessary to prevent LED destruction or damage etc. The various embodiments and or combinations thereof presented herein enables driver circuit technology to achieve shorter light pulse durations at higher radiances than what is available with COTS LED stroboscopic illumination products while also providing a high degree of configuration flexibility in both the circuitry and the LEDs used e.g. for research and development applications.

Typically observed performance characteristics as obtained from experimental implementations and applications of the circuits shown in and also another prototype implementation including minimum pulse duration peak optical flux peak radiant exitance maximum repetition frequency etc. are listed in Table 1 below.

What has been described above includes examples of one or more embodiments. It is of course not possible to describe every conceivable modification and alteration of the above structures or methodologies for purposes of describing the aforementioned aspects but one of ordinary skill in the art can recognize that many further modifications and permutations of various aspects are possible. Accordingly the described aspects are intended to embrace all such alterations modifications and variations that fall within the spirit and scope of the appended claims. Furthermore to the extent that the term includes is used in either the details description or the claims such term is intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising as comprising is interpreted when employed as a transitional word in a claim.

