---

title: Variable delivery zones for delivery orders
abstract: In some examples, a service provider may receive an indicated delivery location from a buyer device. The service provider may determine, based at least in part on traffic information, respective predicted courier travel times to the delivery location from a plurality of different merchant locations. The service provider may compare the respective predicted courier travel times with respective spoilage times for items offered by the corresponding merchants, and may identify one or more items having respective spoilage times greater than the respective predicted courier travel time from that merchant location. The service provider may send, to the buyer device, information about items available to be ordered from particular merchants having respective spoilage times greater than the predicted courier travel time from respective the merchant location. The buyer device may present the item information on a display to enable buyer selection of an item for delivery.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09639908&OS=09639908&RS=09639908
owner: SQUARE, INC.
number: 09639908
owner_city: San Francisco
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150320
---
People enjoy eating quality food that is prepared by good restaurants. Nevertheless sometimes people may not want to go to a restaurant but instead may prefer to have food delivered to them. To meet this demand a courier may deliver food prepared by a restaurant to a customer at a delivery location. For example a service may enable customers to order food items from any of a variety of restaurants and may arrange for couriers to deliver the food items from the restaurants to the customers. However if it takes too long for the courier to deliver the food from the restaurant to the customer the food items may be delivered late may be delivered cold and or may be delivered under other unsatisfactory circumstances. Accordingly a restaurant with a delivery service will usually establish a fixed delivery zone and will not deliver to customers located outside of this fixed zone.

The technology herein provides a novel system and environment in which buyers who want to place orders for delivery may be constrained to ordering from certain merchants and or ordering certain items from certain merchants based on variations in local conditions. For instance a buyer who is placing an order may be presented with the opportunity to order from selected merchants and or order selected items from the selected merchants based on a delivery location associated with the buyer and predicted courier travel time between the delivery location and the selected merchants. In some cases the delivery location of the buyer may be determined by a GPS Global Positioning System receiver or other location sensor onboard a buyer device and this location information may be transmitted to a service computing device as the indicated delivery location. The technology herein employs a plurality of computing devices mobile devices and location sensors to provide a novel technological arrangement that provides buyers varying options for ordering merchants and items based at least in part on delivery location and local conditions such as traffic weather local events and the like.

Additionally some implementations herein provide technological innovations that enable people to participate as couriers in a new type of crowdsourced service economy. With the technology herein essentially any person with a mobile device is able to immediately become a courier or cease to be a courier in a courier network that provides delivery services for delivery of items from merchants to buyers. Additionally through the interaction of the plurality of computing devices mobile devices and location sensors implementations herein are able to track the movement of couriers throughout a service region over time and can use this information to assist in predicting courier travel times to various delivery locations for various different times of days and days of the week.

Furthermore some examples described herein include techniques and arrangements for employing variable delivery zones with delivery orders based at least in part on regional conditions buyer delivery location merchant pickup location and the like. For instance a service provider may provide a delivery service that enables buyers to order items such as food items or other goods from merchants such as restaurants. When placing an order with a merchant the buyer may use a buyer application on a buyer device such as a mobile device or other computing device to browse through the items available from various different merchants. The buyer may select a particular item to order from a particular merchant and the service may send information about this selection to the particular merchant. Further the service may arrange for a courier to pick up the ordered item from the merchant and deliver the item to the buyer.

In some examples herein at least one respective delivery zone may be determined for each merchant such as based in part on spoilage times for items offered by each merchant. Further respective delivery zones may also be determined for individual items offered by each merchant and or categories of items offered by each merchant such that each merchant may have multiple different delivery zones for different items offered by the that merchant. Accordingly a delivery zone may be determined as geographic area in which an item can be delivered without experiencing spoilage prior to being delivered to a delivery location of the buyer. A spoilage time may be the time between when an ordered item is ready for pickup and when the ordered item is considered to be of degraded quality e.g. cold soggy melted wilted oxidized or otherwise less palatable than would be normally expected by the buyer.

The delivery zone of a particular merchant may expand and contract with changes in traffic conditions weather and or other local conditions. For example a particular merchant may have a very large delivery zone in the mid afternoon when traffic is light because couriers are able to travel at maximum legal speeds at that time. However after rush hour starts the delivery zone of the particular restaurant may shrink dramatically such as due to heavy traffic causing the couriers to travel much more slowly. Additionally in some examples the delivery zone of a particular merchant may be defined and may change on a per item basis and or a per item category basis. For example some categories of items such as a salad may have a high spoilage time and can typically be delivered much farther at a given courier speed than other categories of items such as French fries that may spoil quickly such as by becoming cold and soggy.

Furthermore based on the variable delivery zones for particular merchants and or particular items or item categories a buyer application on a buyer device may present the buyer with different menus for particular merchants depending on the projected travel time from each merchant to the delivery location of the buyer. For instance as the individual delivery zones of the merchants expand and contract based on the local conditions the buyer may be presented with an expanding and contracting selection of merchants from whom the buyer may order. Additionally the menu of items offered by each merchant may change depending on the spoilage times of the individual items presented in the menu associated with each merchant. As one example if a buyer is not currently able to order a particular item for immediate delivery the buyer application may provide an option for the buyer to place the order now and have the order arrive in several hours after the local traffic is predicted to subside. In some cases each delivery zone may be determined based on a radius oval or other suitable shape around a pickup location of a respective merchant. In other examples however each delivery zone may be determined more precisely as a respective polygon or partial polygon around each pickup location such as with the outer perimeter of the polygon being aligned with individual streets at the edges of the respective delivery zone.

In some examples travel time from a particular merchant location to potential delivery locations may be determined based on map information and current or predicted traffic conditions as well as weather conditions local events or street closures local construction tolls geological features and so forth. Furthermore predicted spoilage times for items may be determined based on spoilage information received from particular merchants and or empirical spoilage information gathered from deliveries made over a past period of time as well as current or predicted weather conditions such as current or predicted ambient temperature sunny cloudy or rainy weather and so forth.

In addition in some cases the delivery zones may be based at least in part on a cost function that takes into account tolls actual spoilage and predicted travel time and which may determine the boundary of the delivery zone at a point at which the cost becomes prohibitive. For instance a particular delivery zone may be determined based on probability of spoilage or non spoilage e.g. if there is a 90 percent or greater probability that an item can be delivered to a location at a particular time without spoilage then the location may be included in the delivery zone for that item. This determination can be refined based on feedback from the buyers or the couriers e.g. whether an item for a delivered order had to be refunded or switched out for another item with a longer spoilage time. Furthermore the cost function may treat a toll as another cost of the order which would tend to make deliveries requiring payment of a toll less likely as the cost of the toll increases relative to the cost of the order. Additionally or alternatively tolls or geological features such as bodies of water without nearby bridges may be taken into consideration and may result in hard cutoffs that might exclude delivery across toll bridges over toll roads and or over geological features that might not be easily traversed.

In some examples the service provider may receive from a courier device a first indication of the time at which the courier picks up the order at the pickup location and a second indication of a time at which the courier delivers the order to the delivery location. The service may adjust the delivery zones and or the technique for determining the delivery zones based on the feedback received from the courier devices over a period of time i.e. based on the difference between predicted courier travel times and actual courier travel times. Further as mentioned above the courier fleet may serve as sensors to determine current traffic conditions in the local region in addition to providing information that may be used to predict courier travel times based on a local conditions during past deliveries as compared with current conditions during a current delivery.

Additionally in some examples the merchant menu information presented to the buyer may be determined based at least in part on the travel time to the delivery location of the buyer from the pickup locations of the various merchants in the service region. For example when a buyer indicates a desired delivery location and a desired or default delivery time interval the service computing device may determine the travel time from each merchant pickup location in the service region to the desired delivery location of the buyer for the delivery time interval such as based on current traffic conditions and other local conditions. The service computing device or the buyer application may then determine which merchants are offering items having predicted spoilage times that are greater than the predicted travel times from the respective merchant pickup locations and may determine menu information to present to the buyer based on these items. The menu information may be presented by the buyer application on the buyer device. If the buyer changes the delivery location e.g. to a different delivery location in another part of the city the menu information presented to the buyer may change to other items and or other merchants based on the predicted courier travel times between the new delivery location and the respective merchant pickup locations.

In some examples the service may rely at least in part on historic order information to determine the variable delivery zones predicted courier travel times and or predicted spoilage times. Thus the service may determine for a plurality of different times of day for a plurality of different days and for a plurality of orders received for items provided by individual merchants over a past period of time e.g. a past month past two months past year etc. the actual travel times for delivery of orders and whether any spoilage was indicated to have occurred. Thus at a current time the service may receive a communication from a buyer application on a buyer device that includes an indication of a delivery location and an indication of a desired delivery time interval and day for an order that the buyer would like to place. Based on these inputs the service may send to the buyer application on the buyer device menu information associated with items available to be ordered from individual merchants having respective predicted spoilage times greater than the respective predicted the courier travel times.

In some cases the determination of respective delivery zones may be performed on the buyer device rather than on a service computing device of the service provider. For example the buyer application on the buyer device may keep track of the location of the buyer device using an onboard GPS receiver or other location sensor. The buyer application may periodically update the item delivery zones and or merchant delivery zones based on received information such as traffic information weather information and local event information.

As used herein an order may include a request submitted by a buyer e.g. a customer for the acquisition of food items and or other goods referred to herein as items from a merchant. The order information may be received by the service and sent to the merchant. For example a merchant may include a restaurant or any other business or other entity engaged in the offering of items for delivery to buyers. Actions attributed to a merchant herein may include actions performed by employees or other agents of the merchant and thus no distinction is made herein between merchants and their employees unless specifically discussed. In addition a buyer may include any entity that purchases items from a merchant. Buyers may be customers or potential customers of a particular merchant. The service may receive payment from a buyer for an order and the service may provide payment to the merchant for the order. Further the service may provide payment to the courier for delivering the order.

For discussion purposes some example implementations are described in the environment of enabling buyers to place orders with merchants for delivery such as to provide variable delivery zones based on varying local conditions. However implementations herein are not limited to the particular examples provided and may be extended to other service environments other system architectures other types of goods other conditions and so forth as will be apparent to those of skill in the art in light of the disclosure herein.

In some examples the order information sent to the merchant may identify items ordered by the buyers from the particular merchant . For instance each merchant M may offer one or more respective items M which may be ordered by buyers for delivery. In some cases the order information may also specify a time at which the order is to be picked up by a courier of a plurality of couriers L . For instance the confirmation information sent by the merchant to the service computing device may confirm the pickup time specified by the service computing device . In other cases the order information sent to the merchant may include an inquiry as to when the order will be ready and the merchant may include with the confirmation information a specified time at which the order will be ready for pickup.

In either event in response to receiving the confirmation information from the particular merchant the service computing device may send order information to a particular courier who will pick up the order from the particular merchant and deliver the order to the buyer who placed the order. For instance each merchant M may be associated with a respective pickup location M which may typically be the merchant s place of business. Furthermore each buyer N may be associated with a respective delivery location N to which the order is to be delivered.

The order information sent to the courier may include the pickup location for the order the pickup time and the delivery location for the order. In some examples the order information may further include a contract time i.e. a delivery time by which the service provider has agreed to have the ordered item s delivered to the buyer at the delivery location . Further in some cases the order information may include an amount that the courier will be paid if the courier accepts the delivery job and or other information related to the order.

In the illustrated example the service computing device of the service provider is able to communicate with merchant devices M over the one or more networks . Each merchant device M may be associated with a respective merchant M . Each merchant device M may be a computing device such as a desktop laptop tablet smart phone or the like and may include a respective instance of a merchant application M that executes on the respective merchant device M . For example the merchant application may be configured to communicate with the service computing device such as for receiving the order information and for sending the confirmation information . In some examples the merchant application and the service computing device may communicate with each other via one or more application programming interfaces APIs . Further the merchant device may include one or more output devices such as speakers not shown in that the merchant application may use to audibly notify the respective merchant that an order has been received. Additionally or alternatively the merchant device may include a display not shown in that the merchant application may use for presenting the order information to the merchant . For instance the merchant application on the merchant device may present the order information in one or more graphic user interfaces GUIs .

In some examples the merchant application may provide point of sale POS functionality to the merchant device to enable the merchant to accept payments using the merchant device . Alternatively in some examples the merchant device may be a fax machine and the merchant may receive the order information via a facsimile transmission from the service computing device . As still another example the merchant device may be a computing device that is configured to receive order information via email instant messaging or other electronic communication. As still another example the merchant device may include a phone and the merchant device may receive the order information via an SMS text message voicemail telephone call or the like.

In addition the buyers N may be associated with respective buyer devices N that may execute respective instances of buyer applications N . For example buyers may use buyer devices such as smart phones tablet computers wearable computing devices laptops desktops or the like and these buyer devices may have installed thereon the buyer application . The buyer application may enable the buyer to select one or more of the items to purchase from one or more of the merchants to be delivered to the buyer by one or more of the couriers . For example the buyer application may present one or more GUIs on a display for enabling the buyer to select one or more of the items for an order.

Further the buyer application may enable the buyer to place an order from a merchant in advance such as for scheduling an order for delivery at a later time on the same day at a specified time on a future day or the like. For instance the buyer may be able to place an order through the buyer application to have lunch delivered at a specified delivery location by a specified time on a specified day. The buyer application may further enable the buyer to make a payment for an order using the buyer application . For instance the service provider may charge a buyer account associated with the buyer for an amount associated with a particular order. In some examples the buyer application and the service computing device may communicate with each other via one or more APIs. Additionally or alternatively the buyer application may be a web browser or the like and the buyer may navigate to a website associated with the service provider and may use the website associated with the service provider to place an order. Thus in this case the website may provide at least some of the functionality attributed to the buyer application herein.

In addition the couriers L may be associated with respective courier devices L that may execute respective instances of courier applications L . For example couriers may use courier devices such as smart phones tablet computers wearable computing devices laptops or the like and these courier devices may have installed thereon the courier application . The courier application may be configured to receive the order information from the service computing device to provide a particular courier with information for picking up a particular order from a merchant s pickup location and for delivering the order to a buyer delivery location . The courier application may further enable the courier to respond to the service computing device to confirm acceptance of a delivery job.

Additionally in some cases the courier application may provide the service computing device with an indication of a current location of a particular courier . For instance one or more location sensors associated with each courier device of an active courier may provide location information and based on this the courier application may send location information to the service computing device such as by providing an indication of a geographic location of each courier device of each active courier. Thus a subset of courier devices associated with active couriers may communicate with the service computing device and may send location information obtained from one or more location sensors associated with each courier device such as a GPS receiver not shown in . In some cases another subset of courier devices associated with the inactive couriers may be periodically pinged by the service computing device to determine interest in becoming active and if so requesting current location information of the associated inactive courier. Couriers who are interested in being activated may allow their courier devices to respond with their location information while those who are not interested in being activated may keep their location information private by not responding. In some examples the courier application and the service computing device may communicate with each other via one or more APIs. Alternatively in other examples the courier device may receive the order information via an SMS text message a voicemail a telephone call or the like.

The one or more networks can include any appropriate network including a wide area network such as the Internet a local area network such an intranet a wireless network such as a cellular network a local wireless network such as Wi Fi and or close range wireless communications such as BLUETOOTH and BLUETOOTH low energy a wired network including fiber optics and Ethernet or any other such network or any combination thereof. Accordingly the one or more networks may include both wired and or wireless communication technologies. Components used for such communications can depend at least in part upon the type of network the environment selected or both. Protocols for communicating over such networks are well known and will not be discussed herein in detail. Accordingly the service computing device the merchant devices the buyer devices and or the courier devices are able to communicate over the one or more networks using wired or wireless connections and combinations thereof.

In the illustrated example the service computing device includes an order processing module that may be executed on the service computing device to provide at least in part the order processing functionality attributed to the service computing device . The order processing module may receive the order information from the buyers and may associate the order information with buyer information and merchant information . For instance based on buyer identifying information that may be included with the order information the order processing module may associate particular order information with a particular buyer account. The order processing module may access a buyer account included in the buyer information to charge a particular buyer account for a particular order.

Furthermore based on a particular merchant identified by the order information the order processing module may associate the order information with a merchant account of a particular merchant. The order processing module may access the merchant account to determine contact information for sending the order information to the correct merchant device so that the particular merchant can receive and provide confirmation of the order. The order processing module may further access the merchant account of the particular merchant to credit payment to the particular merchant that prepares the order.

In addition the order processing module may access courier information to determine courier contact information for sending the order information to a particular courier of the plurality of couriers L to determine whether the particular courier is willing to accept the delivery job of delivering the order to the buyer. The particular courier may use the courier application on the courier device to receive a message with information about the order and to respond with acceptance of the delivery job if the job assignment is accepted. The particular courier may subsequently pick up the order from the particular merchant and deliver the order to the particular buyer at a specified delivery location . When the courier has completed delivery of the order to the delivery location the courier may use the courier application to inform the order processing module that the delivery has been completed. The order processing module may access a courier account included in courier information for the particular courier to credit the courier account of the particular courier with payment for the delivery job.

The order processing module may store information associated with each order as past order information . For instance the past order information may include a day of the week date and time of day at which each order is received from the respective buyer . The past order information may further include for each order merchant identifying information buyer identifying information items ordered the pickup location the delivery location preparation time for the order location of the courier when the courier accepted the job for delivery of the order predicted spoilage time for one or more items time that the order was picked up by the courier time that the order was delivered amount paid for the order feedback including records of any complaints or indications of spoilage as well as other information as discussed additionally below.

The service computing device may further include a zone determination module that may be executed by the service computing device to determine respective delivery zones for a plurality of merchants and or items offered by the merchants based at least in part on an estimated travel time between the respective merchant pickup locations and the delivery location and conditions within the service region. For example when placing an order for an item from a particular merchant the buyer may use the buyer application to place the order. The buyer application may present a GUI on the buyer device that enables the buyer to browse through the items available from various different merchants. Prior to presenting the merchant information in the GUI the buyer application may receive from the service computing device merchant item information for the various merchants from which the buyer is able to select including information about various items offered by the merchants from which the buyer is able to select. For example when the buyer opens or otherwise accesses the buyer application the buyer application may initially request that the buyer indicate the desired delivery location as well as provide an indication of a delivery time interval and the day on which delivery is desired. The buyer application may send this information to the service computing device . In some cases the delivery location may be the current location of the buyer device which may be determined by one or more location sensors such as a GPS receiver onboard the buyer device . In other cases the buyer may enter an address as the delivery location may proceed with a default address may select a previously used address or the like. Further as discussed additionally below the buyer application may by default assume that the buyer is interested in ordering now for immediate delivery i.e. as soon as the order can be prepared and delivered. Thus if the buyer is ordering for immediate delivery the zone determination module may determine a delivery time interval based at least in part on the time at which the communication of the delivery location is received from buyer device. For instance the delivery time interval may be a window of time during which delivery of the order is expected to take place e.g. a window of time from 30 60 minutes after the order is placed or any other suitable time window. If the buyer prefers a later delivery time or date the buyer may select one or more options in the GUI to select a later time or day and this time information may be send to the service computing device with the delivery location information.

Based at least in part on the received delivery location and the determined delivery time interval the zone determination module may determine which respective delivery zones of which individual merchants encompass the delivery location of the buyer for the delivery time interval and in some examples may further determine delivery zones for respective categories of items offered by each merchant and or individual items offered by each merchant. As discussed below with respect to the zone determination module may determine the delivery zones based on a number of considerations. For instance the zone determination module may take into consideration the past order information and various other factors such as traffic weather local events date etc. As one example the zone determination module may access one or more web servers or other databases over a network or other sources of information to obtain local conditions information such as traffic weather local events road closures construction and the like for a current or future day. As another example current traffic conditions may be determined based in part on information received from the courier devices such as by tracking movement of the courier devices within the service region over time through location information received from the GPS receiver onboard each courier device or the like. For instance the courier device may be programmed to periodically report a current location to the service computing device.

Based at least in part on these considerations the zone determination module may predict estimated courier travel times between pickup locations of various merchants and the delivery location of the buyer. Further the merchant item information sent to the buyer device may include information about merchants and items available for not only the soonest available delivery time interval but also during other delivery time intervals on the same day and or other days to provide additional selection options to the buyer when selecting items for delivery. The buyer may select a particular item to order from a particular merchant and the service computing device may send information about this selection to the particular merchant . Further the service may arrange for a courier to pick up the ordered item from the merchant and deliver the item to the buyer .

Additionally suppose each merchant pickup location has at least one associated delivery zone. In this example suppose that the first merchant pickup location has an associated first merchant delivery zone that may apply to all items offered by the first merchant . Further suppose that the second merchant pickup location has three different delivery zones including a first delivery zone that applies to a first item or first category of items offered by the second merchant a second delivery zone that applies to a second item or second category of items offered by the second merchant and a third delivery zone that applies to a third item or third category of items offered by the second merchant. Additionally suppose that the third merchant pickup location has two different delivery zones including a first delivery zone that applies to a first item or first category of items offered by the third merchant and a second delivery zone that applies to a second item or second category of items offered by the third merchant.

In some examples the delivery zones may be determined in advance such as by calculating the farthest locations in a perimeter around a merchant pickup location that a courier may be able to travel under current local conditions for a given spoilage time. Thus the service computing device may determine based on predicted courier travel times how far a courier is predicted to be able to travel in multiple directions from the pickup location in an amount of time corresponding to a particular predicted spoilage time and may determine a delivery zone perimeter for the delivery zone based on the how far the courier is predicted to be able to travel in the multiple directions from the pickup location. Thus when a delivery location is received from a buyer the service computing may merely overly the delivery zones to determine which zones encompass the delivery location. In other examples as discussed below with respect to the delivery zones may be determined with respect to an indicated delivery location such as upon receipt of the delivery location.

Further there may be a plurality of couriers in the service region. In some examples the movements of the couriers within the service region may be tracked by the service computing device such as for determining current traffic conditions within the service region and or for determining actual courier travel times between a pickup location and a delivery location. This information may be used at least in part for predicting courier travel times which may be used at least in part for determining the delivery zones at the first time T as well as for predicting delivery zones at a future time.

In the example of suppose that a buyer would like to order an item for delivery to the delivery location . As one example the buyer device may use the GPS receiver onboard the buyer device to determine a current location of the buyer device and may provide this information to the buyer application. The buyer application on the buyer device may determine the delivery location for the order and may present a delivery location in a GUI on the buyer device as discussed additionally below. In some cases the buyer device may send the delivery location and an indication of a delivery time to the service computing device. As mentioned above if specified time information is not entered by the buyer the buyer application may default to an assumption that the buyer would like to order now for immediate delivery but may provide the buyer with an option for selecting a later delivery time or date. Thus unless the buyer has specified a later time for delivery the buyer application need not send time information to the service computing device and the service computing device may determine a default delivery time interval such as 30 60 minutes from receipt of the delivery location from the buyer device 20 65 minutes or other suitable time period depending on the average times in the local region for completion of delivery orders. In some cases the determination of the delivery time interval may be based in part on the current time of day at which the communication is received from the buyer device e.g. if courier times are short when the communication is received e.g. at 1 30 pm then the delivery time interval may be shorter e.g. within the next 45 minutes than during rush hour e.g. from 4 30 6 30 PM when the delivery time interval may be longer e.g. within the next hour .

Further as the service computing device receives updates of local conditions such as from the couriers and or from web servers or other sources of information the service computing device may determine the delivery zones for the respective merchants . Accordingly the delivery zones may in some cases be determined in advance of receiving a communication from the buyer . In other cases however the delivery zones may be determined on the fly after receiving the indicated delivery location from the buyer device and determining a delivery time interval.

In either case in response to receiving the buyer delivery location and based in part on a delivery time interval the service computing device or in some examples the buyer application may determine which of the delivery zones encompass the delivery location . Thus in this example the delivery location is included in all three delivery zones of the second merchant and is included in the first delivery zone of the third merchant . Further the delivery location is outside of the delivery zone of the first merchant and is outside the second delivery zone of the third merchant . Accordingly the service computing device may send merchant and or item information to the buyer device based on the delivery zones and within which the delivery location is included.

Based on the merchant and or item information the buyer device may present a GUI that includes merchants and items that are available for the buyer to select for delivery during a time period associated with the time T. Thus the GUI may indicate that the buyer can order all three items or categories of items offered by the second merchant and or the buyer can order the first item or first category of items offered by the third merchant . In some examples the GUI presented on the buyer device may omit the first merchant and the second item or second category of items offered by the third merchant . In other examples these options may be grayed out crossed out or otherwise indicated to be not currently selectable for the current delivery time interval. However the GUI on the buyer device may include a predicted time at which the first merchant and or the second item or category of item offered by the third merchant is expected to become available for the delivery location . Additional details of the GUI on the buyer device are discussed below with respect to .

Based on the predicted courier travel times the service computing device may determine or access predicted item spoilage times for each merchant compare the predicted item spoilage times the respective predicted courier travel times and determine items available for delivery if any from each of the merchants . Thus for the first merchant the service computing device may compare the first predicted courier travel time with the predicted item spoilage times for the first merchant and based on the comparison may determine first merchant items or categories of items that are available for delivery to the delivery location . Similarly for the second merchant the service computing device may compare the second predicted courier travel time with the predicted item spoilage times for the second merchant and based on the comparison may determine second merchant items or categories of items that are available for delivery to the delivery location . Similarly for the third merchant the service computing device may compare the third predicted courier travel time with the predicted item spoilage times for the third merchant and based on the comparison may determine third merchant items or categories of items that are available for delivery to the delivery location .

As one example suppose that the third merchant offers salads included in a first category of items with a predicted spoilage time of one hour and further offers French fries in a second category of items with a predicted spoilage time of 20 minutes. Further suppose that the predicted courier travel time for a courier to travel from the third merchant pickup location to the delivery location is predicted to be 25 minutes for the delivery time interval. Consequently the items available for delivery to the delivery location from the third merchant include the salads of third merchant but do not include the French fries of the third merchant .

The service computing device may send to the buyer device item information for the items having predicted spoilage times greater than the predicted courier travel times . The buyer device may present this information to the buyer in a GUI on the buyer device. Accordingly the buyer may browse through the items currently available for delivery to make a selection. Additionally in some examples the GUI on the buyer device may present information about merchants or items that are not available for a selected time but may become available at a further time. Further in some examples the buyer application on the buyer device may perform the determination of the predicted courier travel times and or the comparing the predicted courier travel times with the predicted spoilage times to determine the respective merchant items available for delivery .

In some examples the delivery location may be entered manually by the buyer may have been previously used by the buyer and or may be a default location that may be changed by the buyer through interaction of the buyer with the GUI . For instance suppose that when placing the order the buyer is at work but is planning to go home to receive the order. The buyer may specify the delivery location to be the home address of the buyer even though the buyer is not currently near the home address. As mentioned above in some examples the availability of various merchants and the items offered by the merchants may change based on the indicated delivery location . Accordingly in some cases the buyer application may determine the indicated delivery location prior to presentation of the merchant and item information.

The GUI further includes a user icon that the buyer may select to change an account associated with the order or to access other account information of the buyer s account. Additionally the GUI includes a clock icon that the buyer may select to change a time associated with the order such as for scheduling the order to be delivered at a later time e.g. later in the day on a future date or the like. As mentioned above in some examples the availability of the merchants and the different items offered by the merchants may be varied based on the time of day and day of the week for desired delivery indicated by the buyer prior to presentation of the merchant and item information.

In the illustrated example the GUI presents merchant information about three merchants including a name and a representative image associated with a first merchant The Gourmet Burger Restaurant a name and a representative image associated with a second merchant The Tex Mex Restaurant and a name and a representative image associated with a third merchant The Italian Restaurant . Further while information about three merchants is presented in this example information about other merchants if available to provide items for delivery may be presented in the GUI by the buyer scrolling or otherwise traversing through the merchant information presented in the GUI .

In the GUI of this example the current time is indicated to be 4 56 PM. By default the buyer application may be configured to assume that the buyer wishes to order an item for delivery as soon as possible rather than at some point later in the day or later in the week. Accordingly based on this assumption the GUI may default to presenting merchant and item availability based on the buyer wanting to order now and have the order enqueued for preparation and delivery as soon as the order is placed. As mentioned above if the buyer alternatively wishes to have the order prepared and delivered at a later time the buyer may specify a later delivery time such as through the selection of the icon .

Based on the assumption that the buyer would like to order an item now the buyer application may obtain and present information for the current time period e.g. as if the buyer wants the order placed immediately or within the next half hour hour etc. Thus the user interface may present merchant and item information for merchants having delivery zones that currently include the delivery location of the buyer. For instance since the time is currently 4 56 PM rush hour traffic may be causing substantial increases in courier travel times between some merchant pickup locations and some delivery locations. In this example as indicated at and respectively The Gourmet Burger Restaurant and The Italian Restaurant both currently have at least some items available for delivery to the delivery location while all the items of The Tex Mex Restaurant may be unavailable as indicated at . For instance The Tex Mex Restaurant may correspond to the first merchant in The Gourmet Burger Restaurant may correspond to the second merchant in and The Italian Restaurant may correspond to the third merchant in .

The Tex Mex Restaurant is indicated in this example to be currently unavailable for receiving delivery orders from the indicated delivery location . For instance as discussed above the indicated delivery location may be outside of the delivery zone currently associated with The Tex Mex Restaurant or in other words as discussed in the predicted courier travel time from the pickup location of The Tex Mex Restaurant to the delivery location exceeds the predicted spoilage times of the items available from The Tex Mex Restaurant. If the buyer were to change the indicated delivery location to a location closer to The Tex Mex Restaurant the GUI may be changed to cause The Tex Mex Restaurant to become selectable for placing an order but one or more other merchants may possibly become unavailable for placing an order during the current time period depending on the new delivery location relative to the one or more other merchants.

In some examples in addition to the text the GUI may present a graphic element or other graphic indication to indicate that The Tex Mex Restaurant is currently unavailable such as a strike through fading or graying out information about The Tex Mex Restaurant or the like. Furthermore as indicated at the GUI may indicate that The Tex Mex Restaurant is expected to become available at a future point in time and may encourage the buyer to check back at that time if the buyer would like to order from The Tex Mex Restaurant. For instance if the delivery location is predicted to never be within the delivery zone associated with The Tex Mex Restaurant then the GUI may be configured to not present any information about The Tex Mex Restaurant. On the other hand since the delivery location is at least sometimes within the delivery zone associated with The Tex Mex Restaurant as discussed above with respect to information about The Tex Mex Restaurant may be presented in the GUI to indicate to the buyer that it is possible to place orders with this merchant at least some of the time.

In the illustrated example the Spaghetti Bolognese and the Cheese Lasagna are available for ordering now while the Apple Pie la Mode is not currently available for ordering. For example suppose that the Spaghetti Bolognese and the Cheese Lasagna are categorized in a first category of items offered by the merchant and have a similar spoilage time predicted to be 25 minutes while the Apple Pie la Mode is categorized in a second category of items offered by the merchant and has a spoilage time predicted to be 15 minutes.

Furthermore suppose that with local conditions taken into consideration such as current traffic weather and local events the predicted courier travel time from the pickup location of The Italian Restaurant to the delivery location specified by the buyer is predicted to be 21 minutes. Consequently the delivery location is treated as being outside of the delivery zone of The Italian Restaurant with regards to the Apple Pie la Mode but the delivery location is treated as being inside the delivery zone of The Italian Restaurant with regards to the Spaghetti Bolognese and the Cheese Lasagna. Consequently as indicated at and respectively the Spaghetti Bolognese and the Cheese Lasagna are indicated to be available for immediate delivery while as indicated at the Apple Pie la Mode is indicated to not be available for delivery until a future time which in this example is after 7 00 PM. Further to visually indicate that the Apple Pie la Mode is not available for selection at this time a graphic indicator may be included in addition to the text such as by overlaying a strike through fading or graying out information about the Apple Pie la Mode or the like.

As one example suppose that the current time is 4 56 PM and the buyer is using the buyer application on the buyer device to order dinner. The buyer application may receive the merchant and or item information from the zone determination module on the service computing device and may present the merchant information and the respective items available from each merchant. For instance if the buyer wants to order the Cheeses Lasagna elects to have the order immediately enqueued with the merchant and delivered as soon as the order is ready e.g. by 5 45 PM in this example the buyer may select the Cheese Lasagna and proceed with placing the order. In some examples to place an order the buyer may select the name or the representation of one or more of the items such as by tapping on a particular item representation or by tapping on a zone associated with the particular item. The buyer may then subsequently be presented with a pop up window a separate GUI or the like not shown in asking the buyer to select or confirm a delivery time interval and price for the selected item. Accordingly the buyer may select any of the available items to be delivered within the desired delivery interval e.g. by 5 45 PM in this example. Alternatively if the buyer also wants the Apple Pie la Mode and can wait until after 7 00 PM to have the order delivered the buyer may change the desired delivery time interval and may select the Apple Pie la Mode and the Cheese Lasagna for delivery at the later delivery time interval.

Alternatively in some examples rather than presenting the buyer with an indication of a specific time when the unavailable item or unavailable merchant may become available the GUI may merely indicate that the unavailable item or merchant may be available for ordering at a later time and the GUI may provide an option for the buyer to request a notification. Thus the buyer may request that the service notify the buyer when a particular item or a particular merchant becomes available to be selected for a delivery to the indicated delivery location. When the traffic and or other local conditions have changed sufficiently so that a predicted spoilage time is expected to be greater than a predicted courier travel time the service may notify the buyer such as by sending an in application message an SMS short messaging service text message an email or other electronic communication to the buyer device. For instance the service may project that this change in local condition will occur at a certain time and may notify that buyer a threshold amount of time earlier such as based on a predicted preparation time for an item so that the buyer may place the order and the order will be ready for pickup by a courier by the time the traffic or other local condition has changed as predicted.

The merchant historic information includes historic order information related to the merchants e.g. various types of information related to past orders filled by the merchants that participate in the service of the service provider . For instance the merchant historic information may include items ordered from each merchant at particular times on particular days of the week particular dates and the like. Further the merchant historic information may include the spoilage times for each item offered by each merchant and the pickup locations associated with each merchant. As one example each merchant may specify an expected spoilage time for each item or each category of item offered by the merchant. In some cases the merchants may categorize items into spoilage time based item categories such that items having a similar spoilage times are categorized into the same item category. In other examples the service provider may determine item spoilage times and or item categories based on empirical information which may include buyer and or courier feedback as discussed additionally below.

Additionally the buyer historic information includes historic order information related to the buyers. Examples of buyer historic information may include order times e.g. a time of day day of the week and date on which each order was placed. The buyer historic information may further include delivery locations to which each order was delivered and spoilage feedback . For instance as discussed additionally below feedback may be received from the buyer devices and or from the courier devices that may indicate if one or more items from an order spoiled prior to delivery to the buyer. This feedback may be used to adjust or otherwise change the predicted spoilage times for particular items or categories of items offered by particular merchants.

Further the courier historic information includes historic order information related to the couriers. For example the courier historic information may include delivery travel times which may indicate the time that an order was picked up and the time that the order was delivered e.g. how long it took each courier to deliver each order after picking up the order from the merchant s pickup location. Additionally location information may include locations of individual couriers at different times of day for different days of the week in different parts of the service region. For instance the courier location information may indicate speeds at which couriers are able to travel on different streets in the service region at different times of day thereby providing an indication of traffic information and an indication of predicted delivery travel times at different times of day and different days of the week. The location information may further indicate how far each courier had to travel after picking up each order to make delivery of the order.

In addition the courier historic information may include local conditions such as traffic conditions and weather conditions when particular orders were fulfilled information regarding any local events taking place within the service region when the orders were fulfilled and the like. Furthermore the merchant historic information the buyer historic information and the courier historic information may include additional types of information with the foregoing being merely several examples of the types of information that may be used by the zone determination module .

In some implementations the zone determination module may employ one or more computational models for determining predicted item spoilage times for various different items offered by various different merchants. A spoilage time may be the time between when an ordered item is ready for pickup and when the ordered item is considered to be of degraded quality e.g. cold soggy melted wilted oxidized or otherwise less palatable than would be normally expected by the buyer. For instance the zone determination module may determine the predicted spoilage times of various different items based in part on the spoilage times indicated by the merchants and further based in part on the predicted weather for the service region over an upcoming period of time. For instance the merchants may have control over the packaging used to package the items for delivery and the merchants may have a reasonable idea of respective spoilage times for their items and packaging based on experience. Accordingly the spoilage times provided by the merchants may provide a baseline for the computational model .

Further the local weather may have an effect on spoilage times such as on unusually hot days unusually cold days rainy days and the like that may not have been taken into consideration by the merchants when estimating spoilage times for their items. For example on a very hot day items that are served hot may have an extended spoilage time while items that are served cold may have a decreased spoilage time and vice versa on unusually cold days. As another example rainy days and very humid days may decrease the spoilage time for certain items such as items that are expected to be crisp or crunchy. Accordingly the weather information may be obtained from an online source or other suitable source and may be used when determining the predicted spoilage times .

Spoilage feedback from the buyers and or from the couriers regarding actual spoilage may also be taken into consideration when predicting spoilage times for particular items. For instance suppose that a particular item such as French fries from The Gourmet Burger Restaurant discussed above have been delivered to a large number of buyers within the service region. Furthermore suppose that a threshold number of complaints or other negative feedback have been received regarding the quality of the French fries from this particular merchant. As one example the buyer application on the buyer device may provide the buyer with the opportunity to provide feedback on the received order. For instance the feedback may be transmitted automatically by the buyer application to the service computing device.

The service computing device may apply parsing and text recognition for determining from particular orders the items to which the negative feedback applies. For instance words such as soggy cold gross etc. when included in the same comment as fries may indicate that the French fries were received in an unsatisfactory condition. Additionally in some cases of spoilage the buyer may request a refund or may request a replacement item which may also be an indication of spoilage of the replaced item. Consequently when a threshold level of negative feedback has been received for an item or a category of items from a particular merchant the predicted spoilage times for the item or items may be adjusted to be a shorter length of time. As another example if no negative feedback related to spoilage is received for particular items or particular categories of items from a particular merchant the predicted spoilage times for the item or items may be gradually increased until such a time as negative feedback related to spoilage is received and the spoilage times may then be lowered back down slightly.

As still another example the couriers may also provide feedback for individual orders such as regarding the condition of the items at the time of delivery e.g. by viewing the items or otherwise inspecting the items during delivery by asking the buyer if the items are in satisfactory condition or the like. Accordingly the courier application on the courier device may provide the couriers with one or more GUIs not shown in to enable the couriers to provide feedback on the condition of the particular items for a particular delivery order at the time of delivery. Furthermore in some examples the couriers may be provided with an incentive to provide the feedback such as for additional compensation points towards courier benefits rewards prizes or other types of incentives.

Additionally in some cases the items offered by each merchant may be categorized into respective item categories based in part on the predicted spoilage times and based in part on whether the items are hot items cold items or the like. For example lasagna spaghetti baked ziti ravioli etc. may be classified into the same item category since these are hot items that are expected to behave similarly during spoilage and may have approximately the same spoilage times. Similarly salads fresh fruit and the like may be categorized into the same item category since these items may be chilled and may have approximately the same spoilage times in some cases. The use of item categories may simplify the merchant and item information that is provided to the buyer device. As an example such item categories may be determined according to a 5 minute 10 minute 15 minute granularity or any other suitable granularity. For instance a first item category may be for hot items that are predicted to spoil within 15 minutes of preparation a second category may be for hot items predicted to spoil within 25 minutes of preparation a third item category may be for cold items that are predicted to spoil within 45 minutes of preparation and so forth.

Furthermore in some examples the zone determination module may employ the one or more computational models for determining predicted courier travel times between merchant pickup locations and potential delivery locations and or a particular delivery location specified by a buyer such as for a particular day during a particular delivery time interval. The predicted courier travel times may be based in part on the courier historic information such as based on courier location information that indicates courier movement within the service region at particular times on particular days on particular dates during particular types of weather or while other local conditions are in effect.

The predicted courier travel times may further be based at least in part on current or future information such as weather forecast information and local event information . As one example based at least in part on the one or more computational models the zone determination module may determine a confidence score for a prediction of how long it will take a courier to travel from a first point to a second point within the service region at a particular time on a particular day of the week. The current and recent courier location information may also be considered when determining the predicted courier travel times . For example recent courier movement or lack thereof may indicate unexpectedly heavy traffic. Additionally in some examples traffic information from an online map service such as may be obtained from a webserver or other network source may also be used or taken into consideration by the computational model when determining the predicted courier travel times.

As one example the computational model s may include one or more trained statistical models that account for numerous pieces of information included in the past order information as well as current information such as time day and date information traffic information weather information local event information and the like. In some cases the one or more statistical models may be initially trained using a set of training data checked for accuracy and then used for predicting at least one of spoilage times or courier travel times based on a confidence score exceeding a specified threshold of confidence. The statistical model s may be periodically updated and re trained based on new training data to keep the model s up to date and accurate. Examples of suitable statistical models that may be incorporated into the computational model s herein may include regression models such as linear and nonlinear regression models and stochastic models such as Markov models hidden Markov models and so forth.

Additionally while the computational model has been described as one example of a technique for predicting spoilage times and or predicted courier travel times numerous other techniques algorithms decision making rules and the like may additionally or alternatively be used for determining this information. Accordingly implementations herein are not limited to use of a computational model .

After the zone determination module has determined for an upcoming period of time predicted spoilage times and or predicted courier travel times the zone determination module may apply zone determining logic to these predictions such as to generate delivery zones for merchants and or for items or categories of items offered by the merchants such as for particular times and days. In some instances the zone determining logic may also receive the current buyer information such as an indicated delivery location and or an indicated desired delivery time and may determine the delivery zones based on this information as discussed above with respect to .

In some examples the zone determining logic may include one or more algorithms one or more computational models a plurality of decision making rules or the like configured to determine delivery zones based on the predicted item spoilage times and the predicted courier travel times . For instance the zone determining logic may employ the various different considerations discussed above to determine the delivery zones based on the predicted courier travel times from a particular merchant pickup location to potential delivery locations being less than the predicted spoilage times for particular items or categories of items. The predicted courier travel time may be determined based on map information current or predicted traffic conditions as well as weather conditions local events street closures construction projects and so forth. Thus the delivery zone of a particular merchant and particular items offered by the merchant may expand and contract with changes in traffic conditions weather and or other local conditions. For example a particular merchant or item may have a large delivery zone when traffic is light but the delivery zone may shrink substantially during rush hour.

In some cases the delivery zones for respective merchants and or items may be calculated in advance such as discussed above with respect to . For instance each delivery zone may be determined based on a radius oval or other suitable shape around a pickup location of a respective merchant based on predicted courier travel times to the perimeter of the delivery zone. If the spoilage time for a particular item or category of items is 25 minutes then the perimeter of the delivery zone may generally be 25 minutes of predicted courier travel time in every direction from the pickup location of the merchant. In some cases each delivery zone may be determined more precisely as a respective polygon or partial polygon around each pickup location such as with the outer edges of the polygon being aligned with individual streets at the perimeter of the respective delivery zone.

In addition in some cases the respective delivery zones may be determined based at least in part on a cost function that takes into account tolls actual spoilage feedback and predicted courier travel time. Thus the zone determining logic may determine the boundary of the delivery zone at a plurality of points at which the cost of delivery becomes prohibitive. For instance a particular delivery zone may be determined based on a probability of spoilage based in part on the spoilage feedback e.g. if there is a 90 percent or greater probability that an item can be delivered to a location at a particular time without spoilage then the location may be included in the delivery zone for that item. This determination can be refined based on the spoilage feedback from the buyers and or the couriers. Furthermore the cost function may treat a toll as another cost of the order which would tend to make a delivery requiring payment of a toll less likely as the cost of the toll increases relative to the cost of the order. Additionally or alternatively tolls or geological features such as bodies of water without nearby bridges may be taken into consideration and may result in hard cutoffs that would exclude delivery across the tolls or across other geological features that might not be easily traversed.

In some examples the service provider may receive from a courier device an indication of a time when the courier picks up an order from a pickup location and a time at which the courier delivers the order to the delivery location. The service may adjust the delivery zones and or the computational model and or the zone determining logic for determining the delivery zones based on the location information and other feedback received from the courier devices over a period of time. For example if the actual courier travel time is different from that predicted by the computational model the computational model may be modified to predict courier travel times more accurately. As another example if delivery to a particular address typically requires an additional 5 10 minutes between when the courier arrives at the location and when the courier indicates that the delivery is complete the address may correspond to a high rise building or the like and the additional delivery time required may be taken into consideration in the future when determining whether the particular building is included in a particular delivery zone.

Additionally in some implementations the determination of respective delivery zones may be performed by the buyer application on the buyer device rather than on the service computing device of the service provider. For example the buyer application on the buyer device may keep track of the location of the buyer device using an onboard GPS receiver or other location sensor. The buyer application may periodically update the item delivery zones and or merchant delivery zones based on received information such as traffic information or weather information. For example the buyer application on the buyer device include at least a portion of the zone determination module and may determine at least one of predicted courier travel times predicted spoilage times and or delivery zones based on information received from the service computing device and other sources of information.

Furthermore the delivery zones may change day to day and week to week based on current weather conditions local events seasonal traffic patterns and the like. As one example the zone determination module may use weather forecasts and other weather information at least in part to determine delivery zones for upcoming days for which weather forecasts are available. Similarly local event information about local events that may cause street closures or may otherwise affect the traffic in the service region can also be taken into consideration when predicting courier travel times used for determining the delivery zones.

In some examples the courier application may automatically send courier location information to the zone determination module on a periodic basis while the associated courier is on duty or otherwise active. Alternatively the zone determination module may periodically ping the courier devices of active couriers to determine the couriers current locations. Each courier device may include one or more location sensors such as a GPS receiver or communication interfaces that can determine e.g. from cell towers or wireless access points a geographic location of the courier device.

At the buyer device may determine for a plurality of merchants pickup locations and items offered by the merchants for delivery. For example each merchant may be associated with a merchant pickup location and at least one item that is offered for delivery.

At the service computing device may determine for the items respective predicted spoilage times to associate with the items. For instance the spoilage times may be predicted based at least in part on spoilage times provided by the respective merchants. The predicted spoilage times may further be predicted based at least in part on feedback received from a plurality of buyer devices associated with a plurality of different buyers and or feedback received from courier devices associated with respective couriers. The predicted spoilage times may further be predicated based at least in part on predicted weather conditions for the region.

At the service computing device may receive from a buyer device an indicated delivery location and may determine a delivery time interval. For example the deliver time interval may be determined based on the time at which the communication of the delivery location is received from the buyer device or may be determined based on time information received from the buyer device such as in the case that the buyer would like delivery at a later time or on a later day. In some examples the indicated delivery location may be based at least in part on a geographic location of the buyer device determined through information from a GPS receiver included in the buyer device. In other examples the indicated delivery location may be a default location may be entered manually by the buyer and or may be a previously used location.

At the service computing device may determine predicted courier travel times from the respective pickup locations to the delivery location for a plurality of time periods. For instance the predicted courier travel times may be determined for a current time period based on current traffic current weather etc. Further the predicted courier travel times may be determined for one or more later time periods such as based on predicted traffic predicted weather predicted local events and so forth. As discussed above with respect to past order information and other information may be considered with determining the predicted courier travel times.

At the service computing device may compare the respective predicted courier travel times with the respective predicted spoilage times for the items offered by the merchants.

At the service computing device may determine a first set of items having spoilage times greater than the predicted courier travel times for a first time period and a second time period. For instance these items may be available for delivery to a delivery location within the predicted travel time of the corresponding merchant pickup location.

At the service computing device may determine a second set of items having spoilage times less that the predicted courier times for the first time period but greater than the predicted courier travel time for the second time period. For instance these items may be presented in the GUI on the buyer device but may be indicated to be unavailable for the first time period and available during the second time period.

At the service computing device may send item information about the first set of items and the second set of items to the buyer device. For example the service computing device may send the merchant and item information to the buyer device in response to receiving the indicated delivery location and based on a determined delivery time interval. In other examples the buyer application on the buyer device may determine the merchant and item information based information received from the service computing device and or other sources.

At the buyer device may present the item information on the buyer device indicating that the first set of items is available for delivery during the first time period and the second time period and the second set of item is unavailable for delivery during the first time period and available for delivery during the second time period. For example as discussed above with respect to some items may be able to be selected for delivery during a first time period while other items may not be available until a second time period. Further a third set of one or more items offered by merchants that have respective spoilage times less than the predicted courier travel time regardless of the delivery time interval might not be presented in the GUI of the buyer device even in a crossed out or grayed out condition.

At the computing device may receive over time from a plurality of courier devices associated with a plurality of couriers electronic communications indicating respective geographic locations of the courier devices in a region based on information from GPS receivers onboard the courier devices

At the computing device may determine at least in part from the received courier device locations traffic conditions in the region.

At the computing device may determine predicted courier travel times from merchant locations to delivery locations and or to potential delivery locations based at least in part on the traffic conditions in the region.

At the computing device may determine at least in part from the received courier device locations an actual courier travel time for a particular order based on a first time at which a respective courier picked up the order from a merchant pickup location and a second time at which the respective courier delivered the order to the delivery location.

At the computing device may compare the actual courier travel time with a predicted courier travel time for the particular order to determine a difference between the predicted courier travel time and the actual courier travel time.

At the computing device may adjust a computational model or other technique for determining the predicted courier travel times based at least in part on the difference between the actual courier travel time and the predicted courier travel time.

The example processes described herein are only examples of processes provided for discussion purposes. Numerous other variations will be apparent to those of skill in the art in light of the disclosure herein. Additionally while the disclosure herein sets forth several examples of suitable frameworks architectures and environments for executing the processes implementations herein are not limited to the particular examples shown and discussed. Furthermore this disclosure provides various example implementations as described and as illustrated in the drawings. However this disclosure is not limited to the implementations described and illustrated herein but can extend to other implementations as would be known or as would become known to those skilled in the art.

Further while the figures illustrate the components and data of the service computing device as being present in a single location these components and data may alternatively be distributed across different computing devices and different locations in any manner. Consequently the functions may be implemented by one or more service computing devices with the various functionality described above distributed in various ways across the different computing devices. Multiple service computing devices may be located together or separately and organized for example as virtual servers server banks and or server farms. The described functionality may be provided by the servers of a single entity or enterprise or may be provided by the servers and or services of multiple different entities or enterprises.

In the illustrated example each service computing device may include one or more processors one or more computer readable media and one or more communication interfaces . Each processor may be a single processing unit or a number of processing units and may include single or multiple computing units or multiple processing cores. The processor s can be implemented as one or more microprocessors microcomputers microcontrollers digital signal processors central processing units state machines logic circuitries and or any devices that manipulate signals based on operational instructions. For instance the processor s may be one or more hardware processors and or logic circuits of any suitable type specifically programmed or configured to execute the algorithms and processes described herein. The processor s can be configured to fetch and execute computer readable instructions stored in the computer readable media which can program the processor s to perform the functions described herein.

The computer readable media may include volatile and nonvolatile memory and or removable and non removable media implemented in any type of technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Such computer readable media may include but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology optical storage solid state storage magnetic tape magnetic disk storage RAID storage systems storage arrays network attached storage storage area networks cloud storage or any other medium that can be used to store the desired information and that can be accessed by a computing device. Depending on the configuration of the service computing device the computer readable media may be a type of computer readable storage media and or may be a tangible non transitory media to the extent that when mentioned non transitory computer readable media exclude media such as energy carrier signals electromagnetic waves and signals per se.

The computer readable media may be used to store any number of functional components that are executable by the processors . In many implementations these functional components comprise instructions or programs that are executable by the processors and that when executed specifically configure the one or more processors to perform the actions attributed above to the service computing device . Functional components stored in the computer readable media may include the order processing module and the zone determination module . Additional functional components stored in the computer readable media may include an operating system for controlling and managing various functions of the service computing device .

In addition the computer readable media may store data used for performing the operations described herein. Thus the computer readable media may store the buyer information including buyer accounts the merchant information including merchant accounts and the courier information including courier accounts . Further the computer readable media may include the past order information such as the merchant historic information the buyer historic information and the courier historic information . The service computing device may also include or maintain other functional components and data not specifically shown in such as other modules and data which may include programs drivers etc. and the data used or generated by the functional components. Further the service computing device may include many other logical programmatic and physical components of which those described above are merely examples that are related to the discussion herein.

The communication interface s may include one or more interfaces and hardware components for enabling communication with various other devices such as over the network s . For example communication interface s may enable communication through one or more of the Internet cable networks cellular networks wireless networks e.g. Wi Fi and wired networks e.g. fiber optic and Ethernet as well as close range communications such as BLUETOOTH BLUETOOTH low energy and the like as additionally enumerated elsewhere herein.

The service computing device may further be equipped with various input output I O devices . Such I O devices may include a display various user interface controls e.g. buttons joystick keyboard mouse touch screen etc. audio speakers connection ports and so forth.

In the example of the buyer device includes components such as at least one processor one or more computer readable media one or more communication interfaces and one or more input output I O devices . Each processor may itself comprise one or more processors or processing cores. For example the processor can be implemented as one or more microprocessors microcomputers microcontrollers digital signal processors central processing units state machines logic circuitries and or any devices that manipulate signals based on operational instructions. In some cases the processor may be one or more hardware processors and or logic circuits of any suitable type specifically programmed or configured to execute the algorithms and processes described herein. The processor can be configured to fetch and execute computer readable processor executable instructions stored in the computer readable media .

Depending on the configuration of the buyer device the computer readable media may be an example of tangible non transitory computer storage media and may include volatile and nonvolatile memory and or removable and non removable media implemented in any type of technology for storage of information such as computer readable processor executable instructions data structures program modules or other data. The computer readable media may include but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory solid state storage magnetic disk storage optical storage and or other computer readable media technology. Further in some cases the buyer device may access external storage such as RAID storage systems storage arrays network attached storage storage area networks cloud storage or any other medium that can be used to store information and that can be accessed by the processor directly or through another computing device or network. Accordingly the computer readable media may be computer storage media able to store instructions modules or components that may be executed by the processor . Further when mentioned non transitory computer readable media exclude media such as energy carrier signals electromagnetic waves and signals per se.

The computer readable media may be used to store and maintain any number of functional components that are executable by the processor . In some implementations these functional components comprise instructions or programs that are executable by the processor and that when executed implement operational logic for performing the actions and services attributed above to the buyer device . Functional components of the buyer device stored in the computer readable media may include the buyer application as discussed above which may present the buyer with one or more GUIs for placing an order some examples of which are described above. Additional functional components may include an operating system for controlling and managing various functions of the buyer device and for enabling basic user interactions with the buyer device .

In addition the computer readable media may also store data data structures and the like that are used by the functional components. Depending on the type of the buyer device the computer readable media may also optionally include other functional components and data such as other modules and data which may include applications programs drivers etc. and the data used or generated by the functional components. Further the buyer device may include many other logical programmatic and physical components of which those described are merely examples that are related to the discussion herein.

The communication interface s may include one or more interfaces and hardware components for enabling communication with various other devices such as over the network s or directly. For example communication interface s may enable communication through one or more of the Internet cable networks cellular networks wireless networks e.g. Wi Fi and wired networks e.g. fiber optic Ethernet as well as close range communications such as BLUETOOTH BLUETOOTH low energy and the like as additionally enumerated elsewhere herein.

The buyer device may further include the one or more I O devices . The I O devices may include speakers a microphone a camera and various user controls e.g. buttons a joystick a keyboard a keypad etc. a haptic output device and so forth. Other components included in the buyer device may include various types of sensors which may include a GPS receiver able to indicate location information as well as other sensors not shown such as an accelerometer gyroscope compass proximity sensor and the like. In some cases the GPS receiver may be used by the buyer application to determine a current geographic location of the buyer device . Additionally or alternatively the communication interfaces may be used to determine the current location of the buyer device such as based on communication with nearby cell towers wireless access points and the like. In some examples the buyer application may send this location information to the service computing device as an indicated delivery location for the associated buyer. Additionally the buyer device may include various other components that are not shown examples of which include removable storage a power source such as a battery and power control unit and so forth. Further the merchant device may include hardware structures and components similar to those described for the buyer device but with one or more different functional components.

In the example of the courier device includes components such as at least one processor one or more computer readable media one or more communication interfaces and one or more input output I O devices . Each processor may itself comprise one or more processors or processing cores. For example the processor can be implemented as one or more microprocessors microcomputers microcontrollers digital signal processors central processing units state machines logic circuitries and or any devices that manipulate signals based on operational instructions. In some cases the processor may be one or more hardware processors and or logic circuits of any suitable type specifically programmed or configured to execute the algorithms and processes described herein. The processor can be configured to fetch and execute computer readable processor executable instructions stored in the computer readable media .

Depending on the configuration of the courier device the computer readable media may be an example of tangible non transitory computer storage media and may include volatile and nonvolatile memory and or removable and non removable media implemented in any type of technology for storage of information such as computer readable processor executable instructions data structures program modules or other data. The computer readable media may include but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory solid state storage magnetic disk storage optical storage and or other computer readable media technology. Further in some cases the courier device may access external storage such as RAID storage systems storage arrays network attached storage storage area networks cloud storage or any other medium that can be used to store information and that can be accessed by the processor directly or through another computing device or network. Accordingly the computer readable media may be computer storage media able to store instructions modules or components that may be executed by the processor . Further when mentioned non transitory computer readable media exclude media such as energy carrier signals electromagnetic waves and signals per se.

The computer readable media may be used to store and maintain any number of functional components that are executable by the processor . In some implementations these functional components comprise instructions or programs that are executable by the processor and that when executed implement operational logic for performing the actions and services attributed above to the courier device . Functional components of the courier device stored in the computer readable media may include the courier application as discussed above which may present the courier with one or more GUIs some examples of which are described above. Additional functional components may include an operating system for controlling and managing various functions of the courier device and for enabling basic user interactions with the courier device .

In addition the computer readable media may also store data data structures and the like that are used by the functional components. Depending on the type of the courier device the computer readable media may also optionally include other functional components and data such as other modules and data which may include applications programs drivers etc. and the data used or generated by the functional components. Further the courier device may include many other logical programmatic and physical components of which those described are merely examples that are related to the discussion herein.

The communication interface s may include one or more interfaces and hardware components for enabling communication with various other devices such as over the network s or directly. For example communication interface s may enable communication through one or more of the Internet cable networks cellular networks wireless networks e.g. Wi Fi and wired networks e.g. fiber optic Ethernet as well as close range communications such as BLUETOOTH BLUETOOTH low energy and the like as additionally enumerated elsewhere herein.

Various instructions methods and techniques described herein may be considered in the general context of computer executable instructions such as program modules stored on computer readable media and executed by the processor s herein. Generally program modules include routines programs objects components data structures etc. for performing particular tasks or implementing particular abstract data types. These program modules and the like may be executed as native code or may be downloaded and executed such as in a virtual machine or other just in time compilation execution environment. Typically the functionality of the program modules may be combined or distributed as desired in various implementations. An implementation of these modules and techniques may be stored on computer storage media or transmitted across some form of communication media.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described. Rather the specific features and acts are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

