---

title: On demand apparel manufacturing
abstract: Aspects of on demand apparel manufacturing are described. A system of on demand apparel manufacturing includes a textile printer, textile cutter, and a computing device. The computing device is configured to perform a process including aggregating orders for products, organizing the orders according to a productivity factor, and arranging panels for products in the orders into an aggregated textile panel template. Arranging the panels can include aligning the panels among each other to reduce scrap in a textile sheet or orienting the panels with a thread, weave, nap, or knit pattern in the textile sheet, for example. The process can further include instructing the textile printer to print a plurality of panels for the products on the textile sheet based on the aggregated textile panel template, and instructing the textile cutter to cut the plurality of panels out from the textile sheet.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09623578&OS=09623578&RS=09623578
owner: AMAZON TECHNOLOGIES, INC.
number: 09623578
owner_city: Seattle
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20151216
---
The apparel manufacturing retailing and fitting industries include a diverse range of parties such as designers fabric manufacturers apparel cutting and sewing workers apparel retailers tailors and cleaners. The apparel manufacturing industry relies upon various resources processes and equipment to produce finished garments accessories footwear etc. Generally a process to manufacture a garment includes garment design fabric production and or printing and panel cutting and sewing. Many aspects of apparel manufacturing processes are relatively time consuming and require the coordination of many different geographically dislocated suppliers vendors manufacturers and retailers.

Aspects of on demand apparel manufacturing are described herein. In one embodiment a system includes a textile printer a textile cutter a textile assembly production line and a coordinating computing environment or device. The computing environment performs an on demand apparel manufacturing process using the textile printer the textile cutter and the textile assembly production line among other resources.

The on demand apparel manufacturing process includes collecting or aggregating orders for textile products from various client devices. The orders can be collected by the computing environment in the form of tech packs over time from various geographic locations. The orders in the tech packs can be organized by the computing environment into one or more groups of orders based on one or more productivity factors such as size shape fabric type or delivery location for the textile products among other factors. The computing environment then aggregates panels for textile products in the groups of orders into aggregated textile panel templates. The panels can be aggregated in the templates by the computing environment to reduce scrap in textile sheets by tightly aligning or orienting the panels onto the textile sheets.

The computing environment then instructs a textile printer to print the panels in an aggregated textile panel template on one or more textile sheets. The panels can be printed in any needed shape or form and may include various types of print patterns defined in the orders. Once the panels are printed by the textile printer the computing environment then instructs the textile cutter to cut the panels out from the textile sheets.

Using the panels cut out from the textile sheets the computing environment generates instructions for the assembly of the textile products defined in the orders and coordinates an efficient assembly process for the products. According to aspects of the embodiments the computing environment generates and provides assembly instructions to a textile assembly production line. Based on the assembly instructions the textile assembly production line directs the panels to various sewing stations for example for assembly. Once various textile products are printed cut and assembled according to the orders they can be processed through a quality check photographed for placement in an electronic commerce system shipped to customers and or stored in a materials handling facility for order fulfillment. By aggregating orders from various geographic locations and coordinating apparel assembly processes on a large scale the embodiments provide new ways to increase efficiency in apparel manufacturing.

In other aspects of the embodiments the computing environment monitors and controls cutting operations performed by the textile cutter. For example the computing environment can capture images of one or more panels printed on a textile sheet during a cutting process performed by a textile cutter. To effectively cut the textile sheet using the textile cutter the process includes identifying factors to control the cut of the textile sheet during cutting using the images of the textile sheet. Using the images a textile thread weave nap or knit pattern of the textile sheet a textile print pattern alignment on the textile sheet or a panel deformation of the textile sheet on the textile cutter for example can be identified and accounted for during cutting. The computing environment can also generate and adapt cut control instructions based on the images during cutting. By capturing images of a textile sheet after panels and or print patterns have been printed on it and adjusting the cut control instructions using feedback gathered from images captured while the textile sheet is being cut the embodiments described herein provide new ways to increase efficiency in apparel manufacturing.

Before turning to the figures although the description of the embodiments is generally provided in the context of the manufacture of apparel or textile products below it is noted that the embodiments are not limited to the manufacture of any particular type s of textile fabric or clothing products from any particular type s of materials. Instead the embodiments described herein can be applied to the manufacture of a wide array of products including clothing or fabric products accessories e.g. scarves gloves hats bags belts etc. footwear bedding curtains towels etc. in a wide variety of materials including but not limited to paper plastic leather rubber and other materials.

Turning to the figures illustrates a networked environment for on demand apparel manufacturing according to various embodiments of the present disclosure. The networked environment includes a computing environment . The computing environment includes an apparel manufacturing data store a print engine a cut engine and an assembly engine . The networked environment further includes a network client devices and apparel manufacturing and or fulfillment facilities and collectively facilities and individually facility facility or facility . As illustrated in the facilities and are located at different geographic locations. In the networked environment the computing environment is configured to perform an on demand apparel manufacturing process using textile printers textile cutters textile production lines and or other equipment or resources at the facilities and .

The networked environment illustrated in is provided by way of example. The relative locations of the computing environment the client devices and the facilities and are representative in and the embodiments can be organized and or distributed in other ways than that shown.

In the networked environment the computing environment can be in part or in its entirety geographically dislocated from the facilities and while controlling and or directing the overall operation of the equipment in the facilities and via the network . Thus the network facilitates two way data and control communications between the computing environment and the textile printers textile cutters textile production lines and other equipment in the facilities and . As described below one or more of the textile printers textile cutters textile production lines and other equipment in the facilities and can also include embedded control system s respectively. As referred to herein the computing environment can encompass at least in part the hardware and software logic of one or more of the embedded control system s of the textile printers textile cutters textile production lines and other equipment in the facilities and .

In operation the computing environment is configured to collect orders for products such as textile paper plastic leather rubber etc. products from the client devices . The orders can be received over time via the network in the form of or along with tech packs for example and stored in the apparel manufacturing data store for further processing by the computing environment . The tech packs can be embodied as digital or electronic files such as job definition format JDF or other types of files that define instructions to manufacture one or more products at the facilities and . In that context the tech packs can include a definition of one or more fabrics or fabric specifications one or more panels e.g. fabric sections portions or parts fabric colors fabric print patterns or graphics thread weave nap or knit or embroidery patterns assembly instructions fastener definitions and or specifications quantities price and or cost limitations or requests and other specifications of textile or other products.

Once received the computing environment is configured to organize orders defined by the tech packs into one or more groups of orders based on one or more productivity or efficiency factors such as size shape fabric type delivery location etc. of the products defined by the tech packs . For example if a number of the orders specify fulfillment in the geographic location surrounding Seattle Wash. the computing environment may organize those orders into a group of orders for manufacture and or fulfillment at the facility . As another example if a number of the orders specify products for manufacture using a type of fabric only available at the facility the computing environment may organize those orders into a group of orders for manufacture and or fulfillment at the facility . Generally by aggregating orders from several client devices and coordinating apparel manufacture and assembly processes on a relatively large scale the networked environment provides new ways to increase efficiency in apparel manufacturing.

After the orders defined by the tech packs are aggregated and organized into one or more groups of orders the print engine of the computing environment is configured to arrange panels for products in a group of orders into one or more aggregated textile panel templates. In that context it is noted that the embodiments described herein facilitate the manufacture of textile products that incorporate certain print patterns defined in the tech packs . Examples of aggregated textile panel templates are described in further detail below with reference to . The panels in an aggregated textile panel template can be representative of one or more sections or portions of fabric or other materials for one or more shirts pants dresses or other accessories or items.

The print engine can aggregate the panels in the aggregated textile panel templates for efficiency. For example across orders defined by multiple tech packs all panels to be cut out from the same type of fabric can be incorporated and aligned in the same aggregated textile panel template. In that way fabric scrap can be reduced by aggregating and aligning multiple panels across orders defined by a number of tech packs . As described in further detail below the computing environment is configured to assign unique identifiers for each panel in the aggregated textile panel templates to identify and distinguish them from each other and in some cases print machine readable representations of those unique identifiers on textile sheets along with the panels.

The print engine of the computing environment is also configured to instruct a textile printer at one of the facilities or to print the panels in the aggregated textile panel templates on one or more textile sheets. The panels can be printed in any shape or form necessary and the panels can be printed to include various types of print patterns defined in the orders. Examples of textile printers are described in further detail below with reference to .

Once the panels are printed by a textile printer at one of the facilities or the cut engine of the computing environment is configured to instruct a textile cutter at the one of the facilities or to cut the panels out from the textile sheets. At the same time the cut engine is configured to monitor and control the cutting operations performed by the textile cutter. For example the cut engine is configured to capture images of one or more panels during a cutting process performed by a textile cutter. To effectively cut the textile sheet using the textile cutter the cut engine is configured to identify factors to control the cut of the textile sheet before and during cutting using the images of the textile sheet. Using the images a textile thread weave nap or knit pattern of the textile sheet a textile print pattern alignment on the textile sheet or a panel deformation of the textile sheet on the textile cutter for example can be identified and accounted for by the cut engine during cutting. Particularly the cut engine can adapt cut control instructions for the textile cutter based on an analysis of the images. By capturing images of a textile sheet after panels and or print patterns have been printed on it and adjusting the cut control instructions using feedback gathered from images captured while the textile sheet is being cut the cut engine can reduce cut errors reduce waste and increase efficiency in apparel manufacturing. Examples of textile cutters and the generation of cut control instructions are described in further detail below with reference to .

Using the panels cut out from the textile sheets the assembly engine of the computing environment is configured to generate instructions for the assembly of the textile products defined in the orders from the client devices . The assembly engine is further configured to coordinate an efficient assembly process for the products. For example the assembly engine is configured to generate and provide assembly instructions to a textile assembly production line. Based on the assembly instructions the textile assembly production line directs various panels to sewing stations for example for assembly. Examples of a textile assembly production line and the generation of instructions for the assembly of textile products are described in further detail below with reference to .

Once panels for various products are printed cut and assembled according to the orders from the client devices they can be processed through a quality check photographed for placement e.g. sale in an electronic commerce system shipped to customers and or stored in the facilities and for order fulfillment. By aggregating orders from various geographic locations and coordinating apparel assembly processes on a large scale the networked environment provides new ways to increase efficiency in apparel manufacturing.

Turning to a more detailed view of the networked environment in is illustrated. In addition to the computing environment and the network shown in further illustrates equipment and other resources for on demand apparel manufacturing at the facility . As shown in the facility includes fabric inventory a textile printer a textile dryer a textile cutter and a textile production line . also illustrates a quality control QC station a photography station a binning station and packing stations and in the facility . Additionally also illustrates example groups of orders and and example aggregated textile panel templates .

The fabric inventory can be embodied as an inventory of fabric including one or more textile rolls or sheets of various grades and types of fabric. In that context the fabric inventory can include fabrics that are woven non woven knitted netted technical etc. without limitation. As shown in for example the fabric inventory includes solid and patterned cotton silk and polyester blend fabric rolls although the use of other types of fabric e.g. linen wool nylon etc. are within the scope of the embodiments. Other types of materials can also be kept in inventory such as paper plastic leather rubber and other materials. According to aspects of the embodiments the apparel manufacturing data store can store records of the fabric inventory available for processing at the facility along with the specifications of the fabric inventory . As described in further detail below the print engine and the cut engine are configured to account for the specifications such as material type thread count thread weave nap or knit pattern s thickness stretch properties etc. of the individual types of fabric and any other materials in the fabric inventory when arranging panels on the aggregated textile panel templates and or generating cut control instructions for the textile cutter .

The textile printer can be embodied as any suitable type of printer for printing on textile fabrics or other materials. Textile printing is related to textile dyeing but rather than uniformly dyeing a fabric sheet in its entirety textile printing involves applying one or more colors to only certain parts or areas of the fabric sheet often in sharply defined patterns. The textile printer may be embodied for example as a digital textile printer digital garment printer or direct to garment printer. The textile printer can use specialized inkjet technologies for example to apply ink directly on fabrics in the fabric inventory . The textile printer can apply water based acid reactive or other types of inks depending upon the type of fabric or other material being printed upon.

As described in further detail below the textile printer can receive instructions from the print engine over the network for printing various panels of products panel cutouts for the panels unique identifiers for the panels cut alignment markers for the panels assembly instructions for the panels and other print features. Examples of those panels panel cutouts unique identifiers cut alignment markers assembly instructions etc. are described in further detail below with reference to . The panels panel cutouts unique identifiers cut alignment markers assembly instructions etc. may be defined in the aggregated textile panel templates by the print engine . As described herein after collecting orders defined by the tech packs the print engine can aggregate the orders into one or more groups of orders such as the groups of orders and . Any given groups of orders etc. can be associated with one or more of the aggregated textile panel templates and stored in the apparel manufacturing data store for further processing.

The textile dryer can be embodied as any suitable type of dryer for drying ink printed on textile fabrics or other materials. The textile dryer can include adjustable infrared or heat panels for example to dry or cure ink applied by the textile printer as needed. In some embodiments the textile dryer may not be necessary based on the printing ink technology used by the textile printer . Thus the textile dryer may be omitted and or incorporated with the textile printer in some embodiments. The operation of the textile dryer can be controlled by the print engine over the network as needed.

The textile cutter can be embodied as any suitable type of cutter cutting table or cutting machine. For cutting and manipulating various types of fabrics in the fabric inventory and other materials the textile cutter can include one or more drag knives wheel knives laser knives pneumatic and or electric oscillating cutting knives and or tools pneumatic and or electric rotary cutting knives and or tools scoring tools v cutting e.g. scissor type tools partout tools creasing tools routing and or engraving tools and other types of tools. The textile cutter can include adjustable vacuums rollers clips hold downs etc. to hold and or maneuver textile sheets and other materials fed into the textile cutter for cutting.

The cut engine is configured to generate cut control instructions for the textile cutter and the cut control instructions can be communicated to the cut engine as part of two way control communications over the network . The generation of cut control instructions by the cut engine is described in further detail below with reference to .

In one embodiment textile sheets printed by the textile printer can be fed directly into the textile dryer and subsequently the textile cutter . In other embodiments the textile sheets can be manually moved and fed from the textile printer to the textile dryer and to the textile cutter .

The textile production line can be embodied as an arrangement of one or more conveyors totes sewing or assembly stations and associated drive and control systems. Once panels are cut out from the textile sheets by the textile cutter the panels can be placed into one or more totes of the textile production line for routing along its conveyor system to the sewing or assembly stations. Depending upon the type of the orders being processed the assembly engine is configured to generate instructions for placing the panels into the totes. The assembly engine is further configured to generate instructions for directing the totes along the conveyor system of the textile production line .

For example if one item such as a dress is being assembled for an order the assembly engine can generate instructions to place all panels for the dress into one tote and direct the tote along the conveyor system to a single sewing station for assembly. The assembly engine can also compile and forward assembly instructions to that sewing station for presentation on a monitor visible by an attendant for example. Alternatively if several jackets are being assembled the assembly engine can generate instructions to place several panel pairs i.e. panels that are to be sewn together into a tote and direct the tote along the conveyor system to a single sewing station for assembly. At the sewing station an attendant and or automated sewing machine can assemble each of the panel pairs and the assembly engine can generate further instructions to direct the assembled panel pairs to another sewing station along the conveyor system for additional steps in the assembly of the jackets. Additional examples of the textile production line and the generation of assembly instructions by the assembly engine are described in further detail below with reference to .

The QC station can be embodied as a station to assess the quality of the products manufactured at the facility . In some embodiments the computing environment monitors and tracks the ongoing operations of the textile printer textile dryer textile cutter and textile production line . If errors or potential errors in printing cutting or assembling one or more products are identified based on control feedback from the textile printer textile dryer textile cutter or textile production line to the computing environment over the network the computing environment can flag those items for a further inspection or review at the QC station .

The photography station can be embodied as a photography booth stage or setup for taking photographs of the products manufactured at the facility . Thus the products manufactured at the facility can be photographed for placement in an electronic commerce system. The products can also be stored in a materials handling area of the facility packaged for shipping at the packing station and directly shipped to customers and or retailers. In some cases one or more products can be taken directly off the textile production line packed at the packing station and directly shipped to customer locations and or retailers bypassing the QC station and or the photography station .

The computing environment may also be embodied in part as various functional and or logic e.g. computer readable instruction device circuit processing circuit etc. elements configured to direct the computing environment to perform aspects of the embodiments described herein. Additionally to the extent that it interfaces over the network with computing and or control devices of the textile printer textile dryer textile cutter and textile production line through service interfaces application programming interfaces APIs etc. the computing environment can be embodied as a collection of computing devices that includes the computing and or control devices or capabilities of the textile printer textile dryer textile cutter and textile production line .

The network may include the Internet intranets extranets wide area networks WANs local area networks LANs wired networks wireless networks cable networks satellite networks other suitable networks or any combinations thereof. It is noted that the computing environment may communicate with the computing and or control devices of the textile printer textile dryer textile cutter and textile production line in the facilities and using various systems interconnect models and or protocols such as simple object access protocol SOAP representational state transfer REST real time transport protocol RTP user datagram protocol UDP internet protocol IP transmission control protocol TCP and or other protocols for communicating data over the network without limitation. It is noted that the network may include connections to any number of client devices or network hosts such as the client devices website servers file servers networked computing resources databases data stores or any other network devices or computing systems.

The client devices can be embodied as any type of computing device processing circuit or processor based device or system used by individuals including those embodied in the form of a desktop computer a laptop computer a personal digital assistant a cellular telephone or a tablet computer among others. The client device may also include one or more peripheral devices. In this context the peripheral devices may include one or more input devices such as a keyboard keypad touch pad touch screen microphone camera etc.

As shown in the apparel manufacturing data store includes an order database textile panel templates and a panel database . The print engine includes an order aggregator and organizer a panel arranger and a print instructor . The cut engine includes an image analyzer a cut control instruction generator and a cut instructor and adjustor . Further the assembly engine includes an assembly scheme developer and a production line coordinator .

The order database includes a database of all orders for textile products received from the client devices . In that context the order database can include a database of the tech packs for example along with any other specifications quantities price and or cost limitations or requests and other information associated with orders. The textile panel templates can include a database of the aggregated textile panel templates generated by the panel arranger as described herein. The panel database can include a database of all the individual panels in the aggregated textile panel templates along with unique identifiers for those panels assembly instructions associated with those panels and other information. The apparel manufacturing data store is not limited to storing the information described above as other data for the processes of on demand apparel manufacturing described herein such as the fabric inventory at the facility and similar inventory at the facilities and for example can also be stored in the data store among other relevant information.

Turning to the print engine the order aggregator and organizer is configured to organize orders received from the client devices into one or more groups of orders e.g. the groups of orders and in based on one or more productivity or efficiency factors such as size shape fabric type delivery location etc. of the products defined by the orders with reference to the tech packs that define the specifications of the orders. For example if a number of the orders specify fulfillment in the geographic location surrounding Seattle Wash. the computing environment may organize those orders into a group of orders for manufacture and or fulfillment at the facility . As another example if a number of the orders specify textile products for manufacture using a type of fabric only available at the facility the computing environment may organize those orders into a group of orders for manufacture and or fulfillment at the facility . Generally by aggregating orders from several client devices and coordinating apparel manufacture and assembly processes on a relatively large scale the networked environment provides new ways to increase efficiency in apparel manufacturing.

The panel arranger is configured to arrange panels for textile products contained in a group of orders e.g. one of the groups of orders or in into one or more aggregated textile panel templates such as the aggregated textile panel templates shown in . The panels in an aggregated textile panel template can be representative of one or more sections or portions of fabric or other materials for one or more shirts pants dresses or other accessories or items to be manufactured. In one embodiment when arranging panels the panel arranger is configured to closely align the panels among each other to the extent possible to reduce scrap in textile sheets. Additionally or alternatively the panel arranger is configured to orient panels in the aggregated textile panel templates to align with a thread weave nap knit or print pattern s in textile sheets. In other words to the extent that a tech pack specifies an orientation of a panel against a thread weave nap knit or print pattern s of a textile sheet the panel arranger can orient the panels accordingly.

The panel arranger is also configured to assign unique identifiers for each panel in the aggregated textile panel templates and store those identifiers in the panel database for reference by the computing environment . In other aspects of the embodiments the panel arranger can incorporate other features related to the panels in the aggregated textile panel templates such as panel cutouts for the panels the unique identifiers for the panels e.g. serial numbers machine readable representations e.g. bar codes quick response codes etc. of the unique identifiers cut alignment markers for the panels assembly instructions for the panels and other features.

In one embodiment the panel arranger is configured to generate the aggregated textile panel templates in a machine readable computer aided manufacturing CAM or similar file format. In that case the aggregated textile panel templates can be provided in relevant part s as instructions from the computing environment to one or more of the textile printer the textile dryer the textile cutter or the textile production line over the network .

The print instructor is configured to coordinate the printing operations of textile printers such as the textile printer in the facility over the network . For example the print instructor can forward one or more of the aggregated textile panel templates to the textile printer shown in . Additionally the print instructor is configured to monitor the ongoing printing operations of the textile printer . In that context the print instructor can identify printing errors printing delays and other printing related activities and factors at the textile printer based on the two way data and control communications between the computing environment and the textile printer . In that way the print instructor can coordinate printing operations along with the cutting operations directed by the cut engine and the assembling operations directed by the assembly engine .

Turning to the cut engine the image analyzer is configured to capture images of one or more panels printed on a textile sheet or sheet of another material during the cutting processes performed by the textile cutter . In that context as described in further detail below with reference to the textile cutter includes an arrangement of cameras to capture images of textile sheets being cut by the textile cutter . Using the images of textile sheets the image analyzer is configured to identify factors to control the cut of the textile sheet. For example a textile thread weave nap or knit of the textile sheet textile print pattern alignment on the textile sheet or panel deformation of the textile sheet for example can be identified by the image analyzer . The image analyzer can also identify certain features printed on the textile sheets by the textile printer such as panel cutouts for the panels machine readable representations e.g. bar codes quick response codes etc. of the unique identifiers cut alignment markers for the panels and other features.

Based on the analysis performed by the image analyzer the cut control instruction generator can generate cut control instructions to cut out the panels from the textile sheets. The cut control instructions can be generated in the form of a CAM or similar file format for processing by the textile cutter . In the generation of cut control instructions the cut control instruction generator can refer to various types of information. For example the cut control instruction generator can refer to the analysis performed by the image analyzer the aggregated textile panel templates used to print panels the specifications of the textile sheets e.g. the type thickness grade weave pattern thread count etc. being cut and other factors.

After they are generated the cut instructor and adjustor can forward the cut control instructions to the textile cutter over the network . The cut instructor and adjustor is also configured to adapt the cut control instructions over time and during cutting operations based on the analysis performed by the image analyzer . By capturing images of textile sheets after panels and or print patterns have been printed on them and adjusting the cut control instructions provided to the textile cutter using feedback gathered from images the cut instructor and adjustor can dynamically adjust the cutting operations performed by the textile cutter .

Turning to the assembly engine the assembly scheme developer is configured to generate an assembly scheme including an ordered set of instructions for the assembly of products. Depending upon the type of the orders being processed the assembly scheme developer is configured to generate instructions for placing the panels into the totes. Where a textile production line such as the textile production line is relied upon for the assembly of textile and or other products the assembly scheme developer is further configured to generate instructions for directing panels cut out from the textile sheets and or other sheets of material s to various stations for sewing and or assembly. In that context the assembly scheme developer can generate instructions for directing totes along the conveyor system of the textile production line .

As an example if one item such as a dress is being assembled for an order the assembly scheme developer can generate an assembly scheme including instructions to place all panels for the dress into one tote and direct the tote along the conveyor system of the textile production line to a single sewing station for assembly. Alternatively if several jackets are being assembled the assembly scheme developer can generate an assembly scheme including instructions to place several panel pairs i.e. panels that are to be directly sewn together into a tote and direct the tote along the conveyor system to a single sewing station for assembly. At the sewing station an attendant and or automated sewing machine can assemble each of the panel pairs and the assembly scheme developer can generate further instructions to direct the assembled panel pairs to another sewing station along the conveyor system for additional steps in the assembly of the jackets.

Referring to the assembly schemes generated by the assembly scheme developer the production line coordinator is configured to forward the instructions to the textile production line and monitor the overall operations of the textile production line during the assembly processes. The assembly schemes and associated instructions can be communicated to the textile production line as part of two way control communications between the assembly engine and the textile production line over the network . In turn the textile assembly production line directs various panels to sewing stations for assembly according to the direction provided by the production line coordinator .

As shown in the tech pack includes the specifications of a product including size specifications order piece assortment specifications panel size and shape specifications fabric type print pattern specifications and and fastener specifications . Although not shown in the tech pack can also include assembly specifications such as stitch patterns thread types and or colors an order of assembly operations etc. As discussed above the tech pack can be generated at any of the client devices and forwarded to the computing environment over the network .

As described above the textile printer receives print control instructions from the print engine over the network not shown in . For example the print instructor can forward one or more of the aggregated textile panel templates A and or B to the textile printer for printing. The print instructor can also monitor the ongoing printing operations of the textile printer to coordinate printing processes with the cutting processes being performed by the textile cutter .

Based on the print control instructions received from the print engine the textile printer prints various panels on the textile sheet or sheets of other material s . The textile printer also prints print patterns on or over certain panels on the textile sheet . The textile sheet is then fed from the textile printer to the textile cutter as shown in . The textile cutter can include adjustable vacuums rollers clips hold downs etc. to hold and or maneuver the textile sheet as it is being fed from the textile printer for cutting.

The textile cutter includes a cutting head assembly adjustably mounted to an articulating rail . The articulating rail is adjustably mounted to a table of the textile cutter . Using motors pulleys or another suitable mechanism the cutting head assembly can move or slide along the articulating rail in the X direction and the articulating rail can move or slide along the table in the Y direction. Thus the cutting head assembly is configured to traverse the table to cut panels out from the textile sheet .

The cutting head assembly includes one or more tools for cutting panels out of the textile sheet . For example the tools can include one or more drag knives wheel knives laser knives pneumatic and or electric oscillating cutting knives and or tools pneumatic and or electric rotary cutting knives and or tools scoring tools v cutting e.g. scissor type tools partout tools creasing tools routing and or engraving tools and other types of tools for cutting and or manipulating the textile sheet .

The textile cutter also includes cameras placed around the table and in some embodiments another camera in the cutting head assembly . The camera in the cutting head assembly provides a close view of the tools and the operations performed by the tools . The cameras can include any suitable type of image sensor for capturing the details of the textile sheet . In one embodiment the cameras can include high resolution image sensors capable of capturing thread or weave patterns in the textile sheet as well as fine details printed on the textile sheet by the textile printer . In one embodiment the cameras can include an image sensor capable of capturing the reflection of long wave ultraviolet UV light. In that case the cameras may also include UV light bulbs or emitters that cast UV light upon the textile sheet . In that way UV light reflected by washable UV reflective inks printed upon the textile sheet by the textile printer can be captured in images by the cameras .

Generally the cameras capture images of the textile sheet as it is being fed out from the textile printer as it is being advanced along the table and as it is being cut by the cutting head assembly . Because of its location in the cutting head assembly the camera can capture close up images of the tools cutting through the textile sheet . Those images are fed back to the image analyzer in the cut engine for image processing. Using the images the image analyzer is configured to identify factors to control the cut of the textile sheet by the textile cutter . For example a textile thread weave nap or knit pattern of the textile sheet textile print pattern alignment on the textile sheet or panel deformation of the textile sheet on the table for example can be identified by the image analyzer . The image analyzer can also identify certain features printed on the textile sheets by the textile printer such as panel cutouts for the panels machine readable representations e.g. bar codes quick response codes etc. of the unique identifiers cut alignment markers for the panels and other features. Based on the analysis performed by the image analyzer the cut control instruction generator can generate cut control instructions for the textile printer as described herein.

Similar to the textile printer the textile cutter also includes a controller that directs the operation of the textile cutter including the cutting head assembly and the articulating rail among other subsystems of the textile cutter . The controller can be embodied as any suitable combination of analog digital or analog and digital processing circuitry including memory configured to control the operation of the textile cutter . Thus the controller can be embodied as a collection of vendor specific logic software and or hardware that directs the textile cutter to perform various cutting operations. The controller also includes the physical and logical interfaces for two way control communications with the cut engine over the network such as physical layer network interfaces service interfaces APIs etc.

As noted above with reference to the cameras and capture images of the textile sheet as it is being advanced and cut by the textile cutter . Those images are fed back to the image analyzer in the cut engine for image processing. Using one or a combination of the images the image analyzer is configured to identify factors to control and or adjust the cut control instructions provided to the textile cutter to cut the textile sheet . For example as shown in the inset in the image analyzer can identify whether the panel and or the textile sheet is being deformed as it is fed through the textile cutter . In that context deformation includes bunching stretching asymmetrical pulling or any other type of deformation of the textile sheet or other sheet of material as it is being fed through the textile cutter . In the example shown in the inset in the image analyzer can identify deformation that occurs along the crease because of the shift in the orientation of the print pattern and or the threads in the textile sheet for example that occurs below the crease as compared to that above the crease . Such changes in orientation may be an indicator of a problem on the textile cutter . In turn depending upon the extent of the deformation the cut control instruction generator can either adjust the cut control instructions provided to the textile cutter to account for the deformation or the cut engine can signal for assistance by an attendant or flag the panel as a misprint to be discarded.

As another example the image analyzer can identify a misalignment in the orientation of the print pattern upon the threads in the textile sheet . In other words where an order for a textile product specifies a particular alignment between the print of the print pattern over a thread weave nap or knit pattern in the textile sheet the image analyzer can identify whether that alignment has been achieved during printing. If not the cut engine can flag the panel as a misprint to be discarded. As still another example the image analyzer can identify errors in the consistency and or orientation of the print pattern and flag the panel as a misprint as necessary to maintain quality control standards.

In other aspects of the embodiments using one or a combination of the images captured by the cameras the image analyzer is configured to correlate features of the panel with the expected features of the panel based on the aggregated textile panel template used to print the panel . For example the image analyzer can correlate or compare the actual edges of the print pattern on the textile sheet with the expected locations of those edges defined in the aggregated textile panel template used by the textile printer to print the panel . Depending upon any differences the image analyzer can provide feedback to the cut control instruction generator to adjust the cut control instructions provided to the textile cutter .

However in other embodiments the cut control instruction generator can generate cut control instructions for the textile cutter without reference to the aggregated textile panel template used to print the panel . For example the image analyzer can identify the panel cutout and or the cut alignment markers for the panel and use those features to generate relative and or absolute position information to cut the textile sheet . In turn the cut control instruction generator can use that relative and or absolute position information to generate cut control instructions for the textile cutter .

The machine readable representation of the unique identifier and the assembly instructions for the panel can be cut out by the textile cutter along with the panel or they can be cut away from the panel . The machine readable representation of the unique identifier for the panel can be identified by the image analyzer or other scanners on the textile production line for example to distinguish the panel from other panels in the panel database of the computing environment . The assembly instructions can include any information related to the panel such as instructions that may be relied upon by attendants on the textile production line information related to the print date of the panel an order or project number associated with the panel a human readable version of the unique identifier for the panel a revision number associated with the panel or other relevant information.

As described above the assembly engine of the computing environment is configured to direct the operations of the textile production line . Particularly the assembly engine is configured to direct the placement of panels from the textile cutter into one or more of the totes and to direct the totes to one or more assembly stations such as the assembly station for example. In that context the assembly scheme developer of the assembly engine is configured to generate an assembly scheme including an ordered set of instructions for the assembly of textile products with reference to the tech packs and any other relevant information.

As part of the assembly scheme one or more panels cut by the textile cutter can be assigned for placement into one or more of the totes . Particularly depending upon the type of the orders being processed the assembly scheme developer is configured to generate instructions for placing panels from the textile cutter into the totes . In one embodiment panels may be transferred from the textile cutter into the totes using gravity chutes intermediary conveyors or other mechanisms. In other embodiments such as that shown in the panels may be placed into the totes using a transfer arm.

The assembly scheme developer is further configured to generate instructions for directing panels in the totes to various stations for sewing and or assembly. In that context the assembly scheme developer can generate instructions for directing the totes along the inner conveyor the outer conveyor and the bilateral conveyors . As an example if one item such as a dress is being manufactured for an order the assembly scheme developer can generate an assembly scheme including instructions to place all panels for the dress into one of the totes and to direct the tote to the sewing station for assembly. Alternatively if several jackets are being manufactured the assembly scheme developer can generate an assembly scheme including instructions to place several panel pairs i.e. panels that are to be directly sewn together into a tote and direct the tote along the inner conveyor the outer conveyor and the bilateral conveyors to the sewing station for assembly. At the sewing station an attended and or automated sewing machine can assemble each of the panel pairs and the assembly scheme developer can generate further instructions to direct the assembled panel pairs to the sewing station for additional steps e.g. other panels or components in the assembly of the jackets. This process can continue as needed until the jackets are fully assembled.

Referring to the assembly schemes generated by the assembly scheme developer the production line coordinator is configured to forward the instructions to the textile production line and monitor the overall operations of the textile production line during assembly processes. The production line coordinator can monitor the overall operations of the textile production line using cameras or scanners to read codes on the totes radio frequency identifier RFID tags on the totes electrically actuated interlocks and or feedback from attendants at sewing stations among other monitoring and feedback mechanisms.

Similarly the assembly engine is configured to compile and forward assembly instructions to the sewing or assembly stations and among others for presentation of the assembly instructions on a monitor visible by an attendant for example. In addition to instructions on how to sew or assemble individual panels together the assembly instructions can specify the use and placement of certain fasteners such as zippers hooks snaps buttons buckles rivets etc. in various products.

The assembly schemes and associated instructions generated by the assembly scheme developer can be communicated to the textile production line as part of two way control communications between the assembly engine and the textile production line over the network . To coordinate its operations the textile production line can include a controller that directs the operation of the textile production line . The controller can be embodied as any suitable combination of analog digital or analog and digital processing circuitry including memory configured to control the operation of the inner conveyor the outer conveyor and the bilateral conveyors among other subsystems. Thus the controller can be embodied as a collection of vendor specific logic software and or hardware that directs the textile production line . The controller can also include the physical and logical interfaces for two way control communications with the assembly engine over the network such as physical layer network interfaces service interfaces APIs etc.

As described above once various textile products are assembled on the textile production line they can be routed to QC stations photographed for placement in an electronic commerce system shipped to customers and or stored for order fulfillment.

Turning to a process of on demand apparel manufacturing is illustrated. The process can be performed in the networked environment in according to various embodiments of the present disclosure. In certain aspects the flowchart shown in may be viewed as depicting an example group of steps performed in the networked environment according to one or more embodiments. It should be appreciated that the flowchart shown in provides merely one example of a functional sequence or arrangement that may be employed to implement the operations of the networked environment described herein. It is noted here that although the process is described in connection with the computing environment shown in other computing environments may perform the process illustrated in .

At reference numeral the process includes the computing environment receiving orders for textile or other products. The orders can be received from the client devices over the network and stored in the apparel manufacturing data store . As described herein the orders may be defined at least in part by one or more tech packs received from the client devices . At reference numeral the process includes the computing environment aggregating the orders for textile products and or products including other materials over time. As described herein by aggregating orders from various geographic locations and coordinating apparel assembly processes on a relatively large scale increased efficiency in apparel manufacturing can be achieved.

At reference numeral the process includes the print engine parsing and organizing one or more subsets of the orders into a group of orders according to a productivity factor. For example the order aggregator and organizer of the print engine can organize orders received from the client devices into one or more groups of orders e.g. the groups of orders and in based on one or more productivity or efficiency factors such as size shape fabric type delivery location etc. of the textile products defined by the orders with reference to the tech packs that define the specifications of the orders.

At reference numeral the process includes the print engine arranging panels for textile products in the group of orders into an aggregated textile panel template. For example the panel arranger of the print engine can arrange panels for textile products contained in a group of orders e.g. one of the groups of orders or in into one or more aggregated textile panel templates such as the aggregated textile panel templates shown in . The panels in an aggregated textile panel template can be representative of one or more sections or portions of fabric or other materials for one or more shirts pants dresses or other accessories or items to be manufactured. In one embodiment when arranging panels the panel arranger is configured to align the panels to the extent possible among each other to reduce scrap in textile sheets as described herein. Additionally or alternatively the panel arranger can orient panels in the aggregated textile panel templates to align them with a thread weave nap knit or print pattern s in textile sheets. In other aspects of the embodiments the panel arranger can incorporate other features into the aggregated textile panel templates such as panel cutouts panel identifiers cut alignment markers assembly instructions and other features.

At reference numeral the process includes the print engine assigning a unique identifier for the panels in the aggregated textile panel templates generated at reference numeral . For example the panel arranger of the print engine can assign unique identifiers for each panel in the aggregated textile panel templates and store those identifiers in the panel database for reference by the computing environment .

At reference numeral the process includes the print engine instructing the textile printer to print panels for textile products in a group of orders on a textile sheet based in part on the aggregated textile panel template s associated with group of orders. For example the print instructor of the print engine can instruct the textile printer to print panels for textile products along with print features related to the panels such as print patterns panel cutouts cut alignment markers machine readable representations of unique identifiers for the panels and assembly instructions. At reference numeral the print instructor can also coordinate the printing operations of the textile printer over the network . In that context the print instructor can forward one or more aggregated textile panel templates to the textile printer over the network and monitor the ongoing printing operations of the textile printer in printing the aggregated textile panel templates.

At reference numeral the process includes the cut engine generating cut control instructions for the textile cutter to cut out the panels printed at reference numeral . Further at reference numeral the process includes the cut engine instructing the textile cutter to cut the plurality of panels out from the textile sheet. The generation of cut control instructions and control of the textile cutter is described in further detail below with reference to .

Turning to at reference numeral the process includes the assembly engine developing an assembly scheme for the assembly of the textile products in the group of orders. For example the assembly scheme developer of the assembly engine can generate an assembly scheme including an ordered set of instructions for the assembly of the textile products in the group of orders. As described herein depending upon the type of the orders being processed the assembly scheme developer can generate instructions for placing the panels into totes of the textile production line .

At reference numeral the process includes the assembly engine requisitioning one or more totes in the textile production line based in part on the assembly scheme developed at reference numeral . For example depending upon the type of the orders being processed the assembly scheme developer may need to requisition one tote or several totes in the textile production line to transfer one or more panels to various sewing or assembly stations. Thus at reference numeral the assembly engine identifies a number of totes needed for the assembly scheme and determines which totes in the textile production line are available.

At reference numeral the process includes the cut engine identifying one or more panels that have been cut out from the textile sheet and are now ready for assembly in a textile product according to the assembly scheme developed at reference numeral . The image analyzer of the cut engine can identify one or more panels that have been cut out from among various panels on the textile sheet based in part on machine readable representations of unique identifiers for the panels for example or other identifying factors described herein.

At reference numeral the process includes the assembly engine instructing a transfer of the panels identified at reference numeral into one or more of the totes requisitioned at reference numeral . The panels may be transferred from the textile cutter into the totes of the textile production line using gravity chutes intermediary conveyors a transfer arm or other mechanisms by the direction of the production line coordinator of the assembly engine .

At reference numeral the process includes the assembly engine directing the one or more totes to a textile assembly station of the textile production line based on the assembly scheme developed at reference numeral . For example if one item such as a dress is being assembled for an order the assembly engine can generate instructions to place all panels for the dress into one tote and direct the tote along a conveyor system of the production line to a single sewing station for assembly. Alternatively if several jackets are being assembled the assembly engine can generate instructions to place several panel pairs i.e. panels that are to be directly sewn together into a tote and direct the tote along the conveyor system to a single sewing station for assembly. At the sewing station an attendant and or automated sewing machine can assemble each of the panel pairs and the assembly engine can generate further instructions to direct the assembled panel pairs to another sewing station along the conveyor system for additional steps in the assembly of the jackets.

At reference numeral the process includes the assembly engine forwarding assembly instructions to one or more sewing or assembly stations in the textile production line based on the assembly scheme and assembly instructions generated at reference numeral . For example the assembly engine can forward assembly instructions to one or more sewing or assembly stations for presentation on a monitor visible by an attendant for example. Using the panels and assembly instructions one or more textile products can be assembled at the assembly stations.

At reference numeral the process includes the assembly engine directing one or more totes including finished assembled textile products to one or more QC photography binning and or packing stations. Thus the assembled textile products can be checked for quality control photographed for placement in an electronic commerce system stored in a materials handling area facility packaged for shipping etc.

At reference numeral the process includes the cut engine identifying cut control factors using the images of the textile sheet. As described herein the cut control factors can identify a textile weave of the textile sheet a textile weave print pattern alignment on the textile sheet a panel deformation of the textile sheet on the textile cutter or other factors.

At reference numeral the process includes the cut engine generating cut control instructions to cut panels out from the textile sheet using the textile cutter based on the cut control factors identified at reference numeral and or the aggregated textile panel template used to print the panels. The cut control instructions can be generated in the form of a CAM or similar file format for processing by the textile cutter . In the generation of cut control instructions the cut control instruction generator can refer to various types of information. For example the cut control instruction generator can refer to the analysis performed by the image analyzer the aggregated textile panel templates used to print panels the specifications of the textile sheets e.g. the type thickness grade weave pattern thread count etc. being cut and other factors.

At reference numeral the process includes the cut instructor and adjustor instructing the textile cutter to cut the textile sheet. That is the cut instructor and adjustor forwards the cut control instructions generated at reference numeral to the textile cuter over the network . The cut instructor and adjustor also adapts the cut control instructions over time and during cutting operations based on the image capture and analysis performed at reference numerals and . In that context at reference numeral the process determines whether the cut operations are complete for all panels. If not the process proceeds back to reference numeral to capture images of the textile sheet on the textile cutter in an ongoing fashion during cutting as described herein. By capturing images of textile sheets after panels and or print patterns have been printed on them and adjusting the cut control instructions provided to the textile cutter over time the cut instructor and adjustor can dynamically adjust the cutting operations performed by the textile cutter . If all cut operations are complete the process returns back to reference numeral in .

In various embodiments the memory stores data and software or executable code components executable by the processor . For example the memory may store executable code components associated with the print engine cut engine and assembly engine for execution by the processor . The memory may also store data such as that stored in the apparel manufacturing data store among other data.

It should be understood and appreciated that the memory may store other executable code components for execution by the processor . For example an operating system may be stored in the memory for execution by the processor . Where any component discussed herein is implemented in the form of software any one of a number of programming languages may be employed such as for example C C C Objective C JAVA JAVASCRIPT Perl PHP VISUAL BASIC PYTHON RUBY FLASH or other programming languages.

As discussed above in various embodiments the memory stores software for execution by the processor . In this respect the terms executable or for execution refer to software forms that can ultimately be run or executed by the processor whether in source object machine or other form. Examples of executable programs include for example a compiled program that can be translated into a machine code format and loaded into a random access portion of the memory and executed by the processor source code that can be expressed in an object code format and loaded into a random access portion of the memory and executed by the processor or source code that can be interpreted by another executable program to generate instructions in a random access portion of the memory and executed by the processor etc. An executable program may be stored in any portion or component of the memory including for example a random access memory RAM read only memory ROM magnetic or other hard disk drive solid state semiconductor or similar drive universal serial bus USB flash drive memory card optical disc e.g. compact disc CD or digital versatile disc DVD floppy disk magnetic tape or other memory component.

In various embodiments the memory may include both volatile and nonvolatile memory and data storage components. Volatile components are those that do not retain data values upon loss of power. Nonvolatile components are those that retain data upon a loss of power. Thus the memory may include for example a RAM ROM magnetic or other hard disk drive solid state semiconductor or similar drive USB flash drive memory card accessed via a memory card reader floppy disk accessed via an associated floppy disk drive optical disc accessed via an optical disc drive magnetic tape accessed via an appropriate tape drive and or other memory component or any combination thereof. In addition the RAM may include for example a static random access memory SRAM dynamic random access memory DRAM or magnetic random access memory MRAM and or other similar memory device. The ROM may include for example a programmable read only memory PROM erasable programmable read only memory EPROM electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM or other similar memory device.

Also the processor may represent multiple processors and or multiple processor cores and the memory may represent multiple memories that operate in parallel respectively or in combination. Thus the local interface may be an appropriate network or bus that facilitates communication between any two of the multiple processors between any processor and any of the memories or between any two of the memories etc. The local interface may include additional systems designed to coordinate this communication including for example a load balancer that performs load balancing. The processor may be of electrical or of some other available construction.

As discussed above the print engine the cut engine and the assembly engine may be embodied in part by software or executable code components for execution by general purpose hardware. Alternatively the same may be embodied in dedicated hardware or a combination of software general specific and or dedicated purpose hardware. If embodied in such hardware each can be implemented as a circuit or state machine for example that employs any one of or a combination of a number of technologies. These technologies may include but are not limited to discrete logic circuits having logic gates for implementing various logic functions upon an application of one or more data signals application specific integrated circuits ASICs having appropriate logic gates field programmable gate arrays FPGAs or other components etc. Such technologies are generally well known by those skilled in the art and consequently are not described in detail herein.

The flowcharts or process diagrams of are representative of certain processes functionality and operations of embodiments discussed herein. Each block may represent one or a combination of steps or executions in a process. Alternatively or additionally each block may represent a module segment or portion of code that includes program instructions to implement the specified logical function s . The program instructions may be embodied in the form of source code that includes human readable statements written in a programming language or machine code that includes numerical instructions recognizable by a suitable execution system such as the processor . The machine code may be converted from the source code etc. Further each block may represent or be connected with a circuit or a number of interconnected circuits to implement a certain logical function or process step.

Although the flowcharts or process diagrams of illustrate a specific order it is understood that the order may differ from that which is depicted. For example an order of execution of two or more blocks may be scrambled relative to the order shown. Also two or more blocks shown in succession in may be executed concurrently or with partial concurrence. Further in some embodiments one or more of the blocks shown in may be skipped or omitted. In addition any number of counters state variables warning semaphores or messages might be added to the logical flow described herein for purposes of enhanced utility accounting performance measurement or providing troubleshooting aids etc. It is understood that all such variations are within the scope of the present disclosure.

Also any logic or application described herein including the print engine the cut engine and the assembly engine that are embodied at least in part by software or executable code components may be embodied or stored in any tangible or non transitory computer readable medium or device for execution by an instruction execution system such as a general purpose processor. In this sense the logic may be embodied as for example software or executable code components that can be fetched from the computer readable medium and executed by the instruction execution system. Thus the instruction execution system may be directed by execution of the instructions to perform certain processes such as those illustrated in . In the context of the present disclosure a computer readable medium can be any tangible medium that can contain store or maintain any logic application software or executable code component described herein for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system.

The computer readable medium can include any physical media such as for example magnetic optical or semiconductor media. More specific examples of suitable computer readable media include but are not limited to magnetic tapes magnetic floppy diskettes magnetic hard drives memory cards solid state drives USB flash drives or optical discs. Also the computer readable medium may include a RAM including for example an SRAM DRAM or MRAM. In addition the computer readable medium may include a ROM a PROM an EPROM an EEPROM or other similar memory device.

Disjunctive language such as the phrase at least one of X Y or Z unless specifically stated otherwise is to be understood with the context as used in general to present that an item term etc. may be either X Y or Z or any combination thereof e.g. X Y and or Z . Thus such disjunctive language is not generally intended to and should not imply that certain embodiments require at least one of X at least one of Y or at least one of Z to be each present.

It should be emphasized that the above described embodiments of the present disclosure are merely possible examples of implementations set forth for a clear understanding of the principles of the disclosure. Many variations and modifications may be made to the above described embodiment s without departing substantially from the spirit and principles of the disclosure. All such modifications and variations are intended to be included herein within the scope of this disclosure and protected by the following claims.

