---

title: Method of playing music based on chords and electronic device implementing the same
abstract: A method of playing music based on chords in an electronic device is provided. The method includes identifying background music related to a piece of music to load sound source data synchronized with the background music from a memory, reproducing the background music, identifying chords corresponding to the reproduced background music in the sound source data, configuring notes corresponding to the chords as notes corresponding to touch objects displayed on the touch screen, and when the chords are changed, reconfiguring notes corresponding to the changed chords as the notes corresponding to the touch objects.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09424757&OS=09424757&RS=09424757
owner: Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.
number: 09424757
owner_city: Suwon-si
owner_country: KR
publication_date: 20150209
---
This application claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. 119 a of a Korean patent application filed on Feb. 10 2014 in the Korean Intellectual Property Office and assigned Serial number 10 2014 0014663 the entire disclosure of which is hereby incorporated by reference.

The present disclosure relates to a method in which a user can easily play music using notes appropriate for corresponding chords and an electronic device implementing the same.

Music is the art of expressing thoughts and emotions by synthesizing a beat a tune and a harmony according to a predetermined law and format based on notes and noises in the audio frequency band. A beat referred to as a rhythm refers to a temporal combination of various long short notes and dynamics and is the most important element forming the basis of music. A tune referred to as a melody is temporal harmony of various high low notes and long short notes. Unlike a rhythm a tune is the expression of music and plays an important role in expressing people s emotions. In addition a tune as an element that best represents musical expression and people s emotions may be a linear connection of notes formed by horizontally combining notes having various pitches and lengths. A harmony is a connection of chords generated when two or more notes sound at the same time. A harmony is a simultaneous vertical combination of multiple notes whereas a melody is a successive horizontal and monotonic arrangement of notes having different pitches.

Among terms related to music chords indicate notes synthesized when two or more notes having different pitches sound simultaneously. Chords are denoted by a root note and intervals of constituent notes. The chords may be differentiated according to the name of a root note and may be twelve in number. In addition the chords may be differentiated according to constituent notes thereof in which case the chords are divided into major chords and minor chords according to the length of the third each of which has the perfect fifth. There are diminish chords that have the diminished fifth and the minor third and augment chords that have the augmented fifth and the major third. Quartal chords are formed by adding the seventh to triads. Major 7 is formed by adding the major seventh to a major triad Dominant 7 is formed by adding the minor seventh to a major triad and Minor 7 is formed by adding the minor seventh to a minor triad. A method of writing chords with the name of a root note and constituent notes e.g. C Am Em or G7 is being widely used in popular music such as folk songs or pop songs. A harmony denotes a connection of chords in which two or more notes having different pitches sound simultaneously. The harmony serves to add a tone color effect by strengthening a melody and a rhythm in a background thereof. In addition the harmony imparts greater width depth and richness to music.

In a so called tonal harmony by major and minor keys a triad in which three notes overlap each other at an interval of the third from a root note e.g. the first makes up a fundamental chord. A pitch denotes the highness and lowness of a note and as a frequency increases on the basis of the fundamental frequency a note becomes higher. The name of a note indicates a pitch thereof. The names of notes are arranged in units of semi tone in order of A Bb B C Db D Eb E F Gb G and Ab. An octave refers to the interval between one note and another note with double its frequency. Notes in octave relationships are perceived as being the same as each other and a note an octave higher than A is also referred to as A. An octave is written with a number there behind. A4 is a note having a fundamental frequency of 440 Hz and a note an octave higher than A4 is A5. Another method of representing a pitch is an integer notation. A and Bb have the same pitch in the equal temperament. The integer notation is a method of representing a pitch with an integer between 0 and 11 in units of semi tone in order to prevent the repetitive notation. Although having been proposed to mainly analyze compose atonal music the integer notation is also used to transmit a Midi Note Number e.g. a number expressing highness and lowness of a note in Midi data due to usefulness in computer processing. For example the Midi Note Number is increased decreased by 1 at an interval of semi tone with a central C C4 set to 60. The amount of difference in pitch between two notes is referred to as an interval. A particular pitch has no musical meaning. The particular pitch has meaning only as a relationship with other notes namely as an interval. There are two musically important methods of determining a standard note of an interval. One is to identify intervals of notes of a musical scale based on a key note and the other is to identify intervals of chords and melodies based on the standard note of the chords. There is a method of writing an interval in units of Do based on a major scale. In this method the interval of two notes on the same step in a musical scale is referred to as the first or the same and the interval of two notes on adjacent different steps is referred to as the second. As the distance is increased by one step namely the second again the interval is sequentially referred to as the third the fourth the fifth the sixth and the seventh and the eighth is also referred to as an octave. The type of Do is divided into perfect major and minor. When one semi tone is increased in perfect and major it is referred to as augmented and when one semi tone is decreased in perfect and minor it is referred to as diminished. When constituent notes of a musical scale are written with intervals a key note may be the criterion and when constituent notes of chords are written with intervals a root note of the chords may be the criterion. The root note of the chords is written with a roman numeral based on the key note. Another method is to use the name of a scale Movable Do . The name of a scale is used for expressing constituent notes of a musical scale instead of expressing constituent notes of chords. Tonality refers to a phenomenon that any one note predominates as a central note and other notes are subordinate to the central note key note . For example music in a major scale with note C as a key note is referred to as C major in which case the note C is the center of the music and the rest has functionality according to relationships with the note C. Determining a key depends upon a key note and there are twelve major keys and twelve minor keys in European music. In a musical scale of tonal music notes are sequentially arranged in order of particular intervals from a key note and western music is based on a heptatonic scale. Constituent notes of a musical scale are referred to as the name of a scale and are arranged in order of Do Re Mi Fa Sol La Si Do Re etc. A major scale begins with Do and a minor scale begins with La. Notes between Mi and Fa and between Si and Do are semi tones and the rest has intervals of whole tones.

The above information is presented as background information only to assist with an understanding of the present disclosure. No determination has been made and no assertion is made as to whether any of the above might be applicable as prior art with regard to the present disclosure.

There have already been applications capable of playing music with activation of smart phone markets and application markets. A user can play melodious music through the existing music play applications only when the user knows through a score how to play an instrument. If there is no score with which the user plays music the user has to memorize chords in measures of particular music and therefore it is nearly impossible for a beginner in music to easily play melodious music. Aspects of the present disclosure are to address at least the above mentioned problems and or disadvantages and to provide at least the advantages described below. Accordingly an aspect of the present disclosure is to provide a method in which a user can easily play music using notes appropriate for corresponding chords and an electronic device implementing the same. In various embodiments of the present disclosure chords can be identified at a particular timing point e.g. a measure and a beat by analyzing chord progression of music and notes appropriate for the corresponding chords can be configured as notes corresponding to touch objects e.g. user interface thereby helping a user easily play the music. That is an application according to an embodiment of the present disclosure can identify chords of background music related to a piece of music and configure notes appropriate for the chords as notes corresponding to touch objects displayed on a touch screen. Therefore beginners in music can easily play melodious music without the score thereof by touching touch objects.

In accordance with an aspect of the present disclosure a method of playing music based on chords in an electronic device is provided. The method includes identifying background music related to a piece of music to load sound source data synchronized with the background music from a memory reproducing the background music identifying chords corresponding to the reproduced background music in the sound source data configuring notes corresponding to the chords as notes corresponding to touch objects displayed on the touch screen and when the chords are changed reconfiguring notes corresponding to the changed chords as the notes corresponding to the touch objects.

In accordance with another aspect of the present disclosure an electronic device is provided. The electronic device includes a memory a touch screen configured to display touch objects and to receive a touch input a speaker configured to reproduce background music and notes corresponding to the touch objects and a processor configured to identify the background music to load sound source data synchronized with the background music from a memory to reproduce the background music to identifies chords corresponding to the reproduced background music in the sound source data to configure notes corresponding to the chords as the notes corresponding to the touch objects to reconfigure notes corresponding to changed chords as the notes corresponding to the touch objects when the chords are changed and to reproduce the notes corresponding to the touch objects in response to the touch input.

In accordance with yet another aspect of the present disclosure at least one non transitory processor readable medium storing a computer program of instructions configured to be readable by at least one processor for instructing the at least one processor to execute a computer process for performing a method is provided. The method includes identifying background music related to the music to load sound source data synchronized with the background music from a memory reproducing the background music identifying chords corresponding to the reproduced background music in the sound source data configuring notes corresponding to the chords as notes corresponding to touch objects displayed on the touch screen and when the chords are changed reconfiguring notes corresponding to the changed chords as the notes corresponding to the touch objects.

The present disclosure provides a method of playing music based on chords and an electronic device implementing the same in which the electronic device can identify chords of background music and configure notes appropriate for the corresponding chords as notes corresponding to touch objects e.g. user interface while the background music related to a piece of music is being reproduced. In relation to the corresponding chords the electronic device configures musically well matched notes as the notes corresponding to the touch objects. Therefore a user can play the entire well matched music through a touch input for the touch objects. That is the user can play the entire piece of music appropriate for background music without any knowledge of music or without the score of the music.

Other aspects advantages and salient features of the disclosure will become apparent to those skilled in the art from the following detailed description which taken in conjunction with the annexed drawings discloses various embodiments of the present disclosure.

Throughout the drawings it should be noted that like reference numbers are used to depict the same or similar elements features and structures.

The following description with reference to the accompanying drawings is provided to assist in a comprehensive understanding of various embodiments of the present disclosure as defined by the claims and their equivalents. It includes various specific details to assist in that understanding but these are to be regarded as merely exemplary. Accordingly those of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that various changes and modifications of the various embodiments described herein can be made without departing from the scope and spirit of the present disclosure. In addition descriptions of well known functions and constructions may be omitted for clarity and conciseness.

The terms and words used in the following description and claims are not limited to the bibliographical meanings but are merely used by the inventor to enable a clear and consistent understanding of the present disclosure. Accordingly it should be apparent to those skilled in the art that the following description of various embodiments of the present disclosure is provided for illustration purpose only and not for the purpose of limiting the present disclosure as defined by the appended claims and their equivalents.

It is to be understood that the singular forms a an and the include plural referents unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. Thus for example reference to a component surface includes reference to one or more of such surfaces.

It will be understood that the expressions comprises and may comprise is used to specify presence of disclosed function operation component etc. but do not preclude the presence of one or more functions operations components etc. It will be further understood that the terms comprises and or has when used in this specification specify the presence of stated feature number step operation component element or a combination thereof but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features numbers steps operations components elements or combinations thereof. In the present disclosure the expression and or is taken as specific disclosure of each and any combination of enumerated things. For example A and or B is to be taken as specific disclosure of each of A B and A and B.

As used herein terms such as first second etc. are used to describe various components however it is obvious that the components should not be defined by these terms. For example the terms do not restrict the order and or importance of the corresponding components. The terms are used only for distinguishing one component from another component. For example a first component may be referred to as a second component and likewise a second component may also be referred to as a first component without departing from the teaching of the inventive concept.

It will be understood that when an element or layer is referred to as being on connected to or coupled to another element or layer it can be directly on connected or coupled to the other element or layer or intervening elements or layers may be present. In contrast when an element is referred to as being directly on directly connected to or directly coupled to another element or layer there are no intervening elements or layers present.

By way of example in the expression reproduction of music the term music may mean music with voice signals converted into data and the term reproduction may mean an operation of converting the data of the music into voice signals and outputting the converted voice signals through an output medium e.g. a speaker or earphones .

Unless otherwise defined herein all terms including technical or scientific terms used herein have the same meanings as commonly understood by those skilled in the art to which the present disclosure belongs. It will be further understood that terms such as those defined in commonly used dictionaries should be interpreted as having a meaning that is consistent with their meaning in the context of the specification and relevant art and should not be interpreted in an idealized or overly formal sense unless expressly so defined herein.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the electronic device may include devices having an operation support function. Examples of the electronic device may include smartphone tablet Personal Computer PC mobile phone video phone electronic book e book reader desktop PC laptop PC netbook computer Personal Digital Assistant PDA Portable Multimedia Player PMP digital audio player mobile medical appliance camera wearable device e.g. head mounted device HMD such as electronic glasses electronic clothing electronic bracelet electronic necklace electronic appcessory electronic tattoo smartwatch etc.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the electronic device may be one of smart home appliances having operation support function. Examples of the smart electronic appliance as an electronic device may include television TV Digital Video Disk DVD player audio player refrigerator air conditioner vacuum cleaner electronic oven microwave oven laundry machine air cleaner set top box TV box e.g. Samsung HomeSync Apple TV and Google TV game console electronic dictionary electronic key camcorder and electronic frame etc.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure examples of the electronic device may include medical device e.g. Magnetic Resonance Angiography MRA Magnetic Resonance Imaging MRI Computed Tomography CT Navigation device Global Positioning System GPS receiver Event Data Recorder EDR Flight Data Recorder FDR car infotainment device maritime electronic device e.g. maritime navigation device and gyro compass aviation electronic device avionics security device vehicle head unit industrial or home robot Automatic Teller s Machine ATM of financial institution Point of Sales POS etc.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure examples of the electronic device may include furniture and building structure having a communication function electronic board electronic signature receiving device projector and metering device e.g. water electric gas and electric wave metering devices . According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the electronic device may be any combination of the aforementioned devices. According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the electronic device may be a flexible device. It is obvious to those skilled in the art that the electronic device is not limited to the aforementioned devices.

Descriptions are made of the electronic devices according to various embodiments with reference to accompanying drawings hereinafter. The term user used in various embodiments of the present disclosure may denote a person or a device e.g. artificial intelligent electronic device using the electronic device.

Referring to the electronic device may include a bus a processor a memory an input output interface a display a communication interface and an application control module .

The bus connects the aforementioned components to each other and may be a circuit of exchanging signals e.g. control messages among the components.

For example the processor receives a command from any of the aforementioned components e.g. memory input output interface display communication interface and application control module through the bus interprets the command and executes operation or data processing according to the decrypted command.

The memory may store the command or data received from the processor or other components e.g. input output interface display communication interface application control module etc. or generated by the processor or other components. The memory may store program modules including kernel middleware Application Programming Interface API applications etc. Each programing module may be implemented as software firmware hardware and any combination thereof.

The kernel may control or manage the system resources e.g. bus processor and memory for use in executing the operation or function implemented with the middleware the API or the applications . The kernel also may provide an interface allowing the middleware API or applications to access the components of the electronic device to control or manage.

The middleware may work as a relay of data communicated between the API or applications and the kernel . The middleware may execute control of the task requests from the applications in such a way of assigning priority for use of the system resource e.g. bus processor and memory of the electronic device to at least one of the applications .

The API is the interface for the applications to control the function provided by the kernel or the middleware and may include at least one interface or function e.g. command for file control window control image control or text control.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the applications may include Short Messaging Service Multimedia Messaging Service SMS MMS application email application calendar application alarm application health care application e.g. application of measuring quantity of motion or blood sugar level and environmental information application e.g. atmospheric pressure humidity and temperature applications . Additionally or alternatively the applications may be an application related to information exchange between the electronic device and other external electronic device e.g. electronic device . Examples of the information exchange application may include a notification relay application for relaying specific information to the external electronic device and a device management application for managing the external electronic device.

For example the notification relay application may be provided with a function of relaying the alarm information generated by the other applications e.g. SMS MMS application email application health care application and environmental information application of the electronic device to an external electronic device e.g. electronic device . Additionally or alternatively the notification relay application may provide the user with the notification information received from an external electronic device e.g. electronic device . The electronic device application may manage e.g. install delete and update the function of an external electronic device e.g. turn on off of the electronic device itself or a part of it or adjustment of the brightness or resolution of the display which communicates with the electronic device or the service e.g. communication or messaging service provided by the external electronic device or an application running on the external device.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the applications may include an application designated according to the property e.g. type of an external electronic device electronic device . If the external electronic device is the digital audio player the applications may include a music playback application. Similarly if the external electronic device is a mobile medical appliance the applications may include a health care application. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the applications may include at least one of applications designated to the electronic device or the applications received from the external electronic device e.g. server and electronic device .

The input output interface delivers the command or data input by the user through with an input output device e.g. sensor keyboard and touchscreen to the processor memory communication interface and or application control module through the bus . For example the input output interface may provide the processor with the data corresponding to the touch may by the user on the touchscreen. The input output interface may output the command or data which is received from the processor memory communication interfaced or the application control module through the bus through the input output device e.g. speaker and display . For example the input out interface may output the voice data processed by the processor to the user through the speaker.

The communication interface may establish a communication connection of the electronic device with an external device e.g. electronic device and server . For example the communication interface connects to the network through a wireless or wired link for communication with the external device. Examples of the wireless communication technology may include wireless fidelity Wi Fi Bluetooth BT Near Field Communication NFC GPS and cellular communication technology e.g. Long Term Evolution LTE LTE Advanced LTE A Code Division Multiple Access CDMA Wideband CDMA WCDMA Universal Mobile Telecommunication System UMTS Wireless Broadband WiBro and General System for Mobile communications GSM . Examples of the wired communication technology may include Universal Serial Bus USB High Definition Multimedia Interface HDMI Recommended Standard 232 RS 232 and Plain Old Telephone Service POTS .

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the network may be a telecommunication network. The communication network may include at least one of computer network Internet Internet of Things or telephone network. According to an embodiment the communication protocol between the electronic device and an external device e.g. transport layer protocol data link layer protocol and physical layer protocol may be supported by at least one of the applications API middleware kernel or communication interface .

The application control module may process at least some pieces of information acquired from other elements e.g. the processor the memory the input output interface and the communication interface and provide the processed information to a user through various methods. For example the application control module may recognize information on connection components included in the electronic device store the information on the connection components in the memory and execute one or more of the applications based on the information on the connection components.

Referring to the electronic device may include an Application Processor AP a communication module a Subscriber Identity Module SIM cards   to  N a memory a sensor module an input device a display module an interface an audio module a camera module a power management module a battery an indicator and a motor .

The AP may operate an Operating System OS and or application programs to control a plurality of hardware and or software components connected to the AP and perform data processing and operations on multimedia data. For example the AP may be implemented in the form of System on Chip SoC . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the AP may include a Graphic Processing Unit GPU not shown .

The communication module e.g. communication interface may perform data communication with other electronic devices e.g. electronic device and server through a network. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the communication module may include a cellular module a Wi Fi module a BT module a GPS module an NFC module and a Radio Frequency RF module .

The cellular module is responsible for voice and video communication text messaging and Internet access services through a communication network e.g. LTE LTE A CDMA WCDMA UMTS WiBro and GSM networks . The cellular module may perform identification and authentication of electronic devices in the communication network using the SIM cards   to  N. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the cellular module may perform at least one of the functions of the AP . For example the cellular module may perform at least a part of the multimedia control function.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the cellular module may include a Communication Processor CP . The cellular module may be implemented in the form of SoC. Although the cellular module e.g. communication processor the memory and the power management module are depicted as independent components separated from the AP the present disclosure is not limited thereto but may be embodied in a way that the AP includes at least one of the components e.g. cellular module .

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure each of the AP and the cellular module e.g. communication processor may load a command or data received from at least one of the components on a non volatile or volatile memory and process the command or data. The AP or the cellular module may store the data received from other components or generated by at least one of other components in the non volatile memory.

Each of the Wi Fi module the BT module the GPS module and the NFC module may include a processor for processing the data it transmits receives. Although the cellular module the Wi Fi module the BT module the GPS module and the NFC module are depicted as independent blocks at least two of them e.g. communication processor corresponding to the cellular module and Wi Fi processor corresponding to the Wi Fi module may be integrated in the form of SoC.

The RF module is responsible for data communication e.g. transmitting receiving RF signals. Although not depicted the RF module may include a transceiver a Power Amp Module PAM a frequency filter and a Low Noise Amplifier LNA . The RF module also may include the elements for transmitting receiving electric wave in free space e.g. conductor or conductive wire. Although is directed to the case where the Wi Fi module the BT module the GPS module and the NFC module are sharing the RF module the present disclosure is not limited thereto but may be embodied in a way that at least one of the Wi Fi module the BT module the GPS module or the NFC module transmits receives RF signals an independent RF module.

The SIM cards   to  N may be designed so as to be inserted into corresponding slots formed at a predetermined position e.g. slots   to N of the electronic device. The SIM cards   to  N may store unique identity information e.g. Integrated Circuit Card Identifier ICCID or subscriber information e.g. International Mobile Subscriber Identity IMSI .

The memory e.g. memory may include at least one of the internal memory and an external memory . The internal memory may include at least one of a volatile memory e.g. Dynamic Random Access Memory DRAM Static RAM SRAM Synchronous DRAM SDRAM or a non volatile memory e.g. One Time Programmable Read Only Memory OTPROM Programmable ROM PROM Erasable and Programmable ROM EPROM Electrically Erasable and Programmable ROM EEPROM mask ROM flash ROM Not And NAND flash memory or Not Or NOR flash memory 

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the internal memory may be a Solid State Drive SSD . The external memory may be a flash drive such as Compact Flash CF Secure Digital SD micro SD Mini SD extreme Digital xD and Memory Stick. The external memory may be connected to the electronic device through various interfaces functionally. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the electronic device may include a storage device or storage medium such as hard drive.

The sensor module may measure physical quantity or check the operation status of the electronic device and convert the measured or checked information to an electric signal. The sensor module may include at least one of gesture sensor A Gyro sensor B barometric sensor C magnetic sensor D acceleration sensor E grip sensor F proximity sensor G color sensor H e.g. Red Green Blue RGB sensor bio sensor I temperature humidity sensor J illuminance sensor K or Ultra Violet UV sensor M. Additionally or alternatively the sensor module may include E nose sensor not shown Electromyography EMG sensor not shown Electroencephalogram EEG sensor not shown Electrocardiogram ECG sensor not shown Infrared IR sensor not shown iris sensor not shown and fingerprint sensor not shown . The sensor module may further include a control circuit for controlling at least one of the sensors included therein.

The input device may include a touch panel a digital pen sensor key and an ultrasonic input device . The touch panel may be one of capacitive resistive infrared microwave type touch panel. The touch panel may include a control circuit. In the case of the capacitive type touch panel it is possible to detect physical contact or approximation. The touch panel may further include a tactile layer. In this case the touch panel may provide the user with haptic reaction.

The digital pen sensor may be implemented with a sheet with the same or similar way as touch input of the user or a separate recognition sheet. The key may include physical buttons optical key and keypad. The ultrasonic input device is a device capable of checking data by detecting sound wave through a microphone and may be implemented for wireless recognition. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the electronic device may receive the user input made by means of an external device e.g. computer or server connected through the communication module .

The display module e.g. display module may include a panel a hologram device and a projector . The panel may be a Liquid Crystal Display LCD panel or an Active Matrix Organic Light Emitting Diodes AMOLED panel. The panel may be implemented so as to be flexible transparent and or wearable. The panel may be implemented as a module integrated with the touch panel . The hologram device may present 3 dimensional image in the air using interference of light. The projector may project an image to a screen. The screen may be placed inside or outside the electronic device. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the display module may include a control circuit for controlling the panel the hologram device and the projector .

The interface may include an HDMI a USB an optical interface and a D subminiature D sub . The interface may include the communication interface as shown in . Additionally or alternatively the interface may include a Mobile High definition Link MHL interface an SD MMC card interface and Infrared Data Association IrDA standard interface.

The audio module may convert sound to electric signal and vice versa. At least a part of the audio module may be included in the input output interface as shown in . The audio module may process the audio information input or output through the speaker the receiver the earphone and the microphone .

The camera module is a device capable of taking still and motion pictures and according to an embodiment of the present disclosure includes at least one image sensor e.g. front and rear sensors a lens not shown an Image Signal Processor ISP not shown or a flash e.g. LED or xenon lamp not shown .

The power management module may manage the power of the electronic device . Although not shown the power management module may include a Power Management Integrated Circuit PMIC a charger IC a battery and a battery or fuel gauge.

The PMIC may be integrated into an integrated circuit or SoC semiconductor. The charging may be classified into wireless charging and wired charge. The charger IC may charge the battery and protect the charger against overvoltage or overcurrent. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the charger IC may include at least one of wired charger or wireless charger ICs. Examples of the wireless charging technology includes resonance wireless charging and electromagnetic wave wireless charging and there is a need of extra circuit for wireless charging such as coil loop resonance circuit and diode.

The battery gauge may measure the residual power of the battery charging voltage current and temperature. The battery may store or generate power and supply the stored or generated power to the electronic device . The battery may include a rechargeable battery or a solar battery.

The indicator may display operation status of the electronic device or a part of the electronic device booting status messaging status and charging status. The motor may converts the electronic signal to mechanical vibration. Although not shown the electronic device may include a processing unit e.g. GPU for supporting mobile TV. The processing unit for supporting the mobile TV may be able to processing the media data abiding by the broadcast standards such Digital Multimedia Broadcasting DMB Digital Video Broadcasting DVB and media flow.

As described above the electronic device operating method and apparatus of the present disclosure is capable of providing diverse screen displays in adaptation to various conditions to implement optimal environment for utilizing the electronic device resulting in improvement of user convenience. Also the electronic device operating method and apparatus of the present disclosure is advantageous in terms of facilitating navigation between folders by sorting the folders by hierarchical level.

The above enumerated components of the electronic device of the present disclosure may be implemented into one or more parts and the names of the corresponding components may be changed depending on the kind of the electronic device. The electronic device of the present disclosure may include at least one of the aforementioned components with omission or addition of some components. The components of the electronic device of the present disclosure may be combined selectively into an entity to perform the functions of the components equally as before the combination.

The term module according to the various embodiments of the disclosure denotes but is not limited to a unit of one of software hardware and firmware or any combination thereof. The term module may be used interchangeably with the terms unit logic logical block component or circuit. The term module may denote a smallest unit of component or a part thereof. The term module may be the smallest unit of performing at least one function or a part thereof. A module may be implemented mechanically or electronically. For example a module may include at least one of Application Specific IC ASIC chip Field Programmable Gate Arrays FPGAs and Programmable Logic Device known or to be developed for certain operations.

Referring to in operation the processor of the electronic device may identify Background Music BGM related to music selected by a user. The processor may execute an application program e.g. one or more of the applications according to the present disclosure and reproduce the background music through the corresponding application program. The user may select background music related to music to play. Here a chord e.g. a harmony in each measure of the background music may have been already identified by an application programmer on the basis of the music. In addition the background music includes a key a tempo and a harmony and the chords of the background music may be identified. In addition the processor of the electronic device may load sound source data e.g. a Musical Instrument Digital Interface MIDI file synchronized with the background music. Here the sound source data for example the MIDI file may be a file synchronized to progress of the background music. That is the sound source data is synchronized with the background music and may be simultaneously executed when the processor reproduces the background music. Without sound outputs the sound source data may identify the chords of the background music at every appropriate timing e.g. measure and beat and provide information associated with the chords e.g. chords and notes appropriate for the corresponding chords to the application program. That is the sound source data may include a ghost track for providing necessary information at each timing point e.g. measure and beat . The sound source data may be a file created by an application programmer and stored in the memory of the electronic device. In operation the processor may reproduce the background music synchronized with the sound source data. In operation the processor may identify chords corresponding to the background music from the sound source data. In operation the processor may configure notes corresponding to the identified chords as notes corresponding to touch objects. The notes corresponding to the identified chords may be notes arbitrarily configured as musically well matched notes by the application programmer in relation to the chords. The processor may configure the notes well matched with the chords as the notes corresponding to the touch objects e.g. user interfaces displayed on the touch screen e.g. the input output interface . The touch objects e.g. user interfaces as graphic interfaces may reproduce the configured notes in response to the user s touch input. In addition the touch objects may be graphic interfaces in the form of rods or strings continuously arranged to configure notes. The processor may configure notes in ascending order of pitch the highness or lowness of a note from the left of the touch objects. For example the processor may identify in the existing touch objects notes configured in order of Do Re Mi Fa Sol La Si Do etc. However in the case of chord C the processor according to an embodiment of the present disclosure may configure notes in order of Do 1 octave Mi 1 octave Sol 1 octave Do 2 octave Mi 2 octave Sol 2 octave Do 3 octave Mi 3 octave Sol 3 octave etc. for example 2 octave is an octave higher than 1 octave . That is the processor may reconfigure the notes configured to the touch objects in order of existing piano keyboards as notes appropriate for the identified chords. In operation the processor may identify whether the chords are changed when the background music is reproduced. When the chords are changed the processor may reconfigure notes corresponding to the chords as the notes corresponding to the touch objects in operation . The notes corresponding to the chords namely the notes well matched with the chords may be determined according to the application programmer s pre configuration and the types of notes may not be restricted. After configuring the notes corresponding to the chords as the notes corresponding to the touch objects in operation the processor may identify whether the background music has been terminated in operation . When it is determined in operation that the background music has not been terminated the processor may identify the background music s change in chords again in operation . When it is determined in operation that the chords have not been changed the processor may maintain the previously configured notes of the touch objects without reconfiguring the notes corresponding to the touch objects. In operation the processor may identify whether the background music has been terminated. That is the processor may identify the chords until the background music is terminated and reconfigure notes appropriate for the chords as the notes corresponding to the touch objects.

Referring to the processor may identify chord progress of background music through sound source data having chords stored therein. The processor may configure notes corresponding to the identified chord as notes corresponding to touch objects displayed on the touch screen. Referring to a progress bar displays the progress of the background music. That is through the progress bar the processor may display a time point the background music is played. As a minimum unit viewable in a score a measure is a minimum unit of a musical piece into which the score is divided by vertical bar lines. The measure may be a reference point where chords are changed. Referring to the processor may identify that the chord of the background music in the first measure corresponds to chord C . The processor may identify that the chord is changed from chord C to chord F in the fifth measure and from chord F to chord C again in the ninth measure . Here the processor may identify the change in chord through the sound source data synchronized with the background music. That is through the sound source data the processor may identify chord C in the first measure of the background music and configure appropriate notes Do Mi and Sol as notes corresponding to the touch objects in chord C . An application programmer may not limit the appropriate notes in chord C to Do Mi and Sol . That is the notes configured as the notes corresponding to the touch objects may be changed by the programmer s determination. The processor may maintain Do Mi and Sol configured in chord C until the fifth measure and change the notes corresponding to the touch objects to Fa La and Do appropriate for chord F in the fifth measure . As the chord is changed from chord F to chord C in the ninth measure the processor may change the notes corresponding to the touch objects configured as Fa La and Do to Do Mi and Sol again. In addition the processor may identify that the chord of the background music is changed from chord C to chord Dm in thirteenth measure and change the notes corresponding to the touch objects to Re Fa and La. illustrates examples of notes corresponding to the touch objects when the progress bar is located at time points to in according to an embodiment of the present disclosure.

Referring to in a view indicated by reference numeral the processor may identify that the chord at time point in operation corresponds to chord C and then configure C Do E Mi and G Sol as the notes corresponding to the touch objects. For example in a view indicated by reference numeral when a user interface of an application program has an array of rectangular rods the processor may configure in the first measure the notes corresponding to the touch objects in order of C1 Do D1 Mi G1 Sol C2 Do an octave higher than C1 E2 Mi an octave higher than D1 G2 C3 E3 G3 C4 etc. In a view indicated by reference numeral the processor may identify that the notes corresponding to the touch objects at time point in operation are arranged in order of F1 Fa A1 La C2 Do F2 Fa an octave higher than F1 A2 C3 F3 A3 C4 etc. Referring to the processor may identify that the chord of the background music is changed from chord C to chord F in the fifth measure . That is the notes corresponding to the touch objects at time point in operation are configured in order of F Fa A La and C Do which are notes appropriate for chord F . In a view indicated by reference numeral the processor may identify that the notes corresponding to the touch objects at time point in operation are changed in order of C1 Do D1 Mi G1 Sol C2 E2 etc. again. In a view indicated by reference numeral the processor may identify that the notes corresponding to the touch objects at time point in operation are arranged in order of D1 Re F1 Fa A1 La D2 F2 A2 D3 F3 A3 etc. Accordingly the processor may change configuration of the notes corresponding to the touch objects as the chords of the background music are changed. In the method according to an embodiment of the present disclosure the processor identifies the chord of the background music and change the configuration of the notes corresponding to the touch objects. Therefore a user can play music with a touch input on the touch objects for which appropriate notes are configured according to the progress of the chord of the background music without having to identify the changed notes corresponding to the touch objects.

Referring to the processor may configure to the touch object an appropriate note corresponding to a chord in each of the measures . That is the processor may configure a note appropriate for the corresponding chord as the note corresponding to the touch object and display the configured note. For example when the chord in the fourth measure corresponds to chord C the processor may configure C1 Do D1 Mi G1 Sol C2 Do an octave higher than C1 E2 G2 C3 E3 G3 etc. from the leftmost to the rightmost of the touch objects. The processor may display the same notes e.g. C1 C2 and C3 in the same color such that a user can identify the reconfigured notes corresponding to the touch objects with the naked eyes. In addition the processor may also display on the touch objects information related to the reconfigured notes corresponding thereto. For example the processor may display names of musical scales such as C1 D1 and G1. The processor may record the music played by the user using the recording key and the user may compose music utilizing the recorded music. As described above the method of playing music according to an embodiment of the present disclosure can enable a user uneducated on musical performance to easily play music through touch objects reconfigured as notes appropriate for chords.

At this point it should be noted that various embodiments of the present disclosure as described above typically involve the processing of input data and the generation of output data to some extent. This input data processing and output data generation may be implemented in hardware or software in combination with hardware. For example specific electronic components may be employed in a mobile device or similar or related circuitry for implementing the functions associated with the various embodiments of the present disclosure as described above. Alternatively one or more processors operating in accordance with stored instructions may implement the functions associated with the various embodiments of the present disclosure as described above. If such is the case it is within the scope of the present disclosure that such instructions may be stored on one or more non transitory processor readable mediums. Examples of the processor readable mediums include Read Only Memory ROM Random Access Memory RAM CD ROMs magnetic tapes floppy disks and optical data storage devices. The processor readable mediums can also be distributed over network coupled computer systems so that the instructions are stored and executed in a distributed fashion. Also functional computer programs instructions and instruction segments for accomplishing the present disclosure can be easily construed by programmers skilled in the art to which the present disclosure pertains.

While the present disclosure has been shown and described with reference to various embodiments thereof it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes in form and details may be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope of the present disclosure as defined by the appended claims and their equivalents.

