---

title: Background oriented Schlieren using celestial objects
abstract: The present invention is a system and method of visualizing fluid flow around an object, such as an aircraft or wind turbine, by aligning the object between an imaging system and a celestial object having a speckled background, taking images, and comparing those images to obtain fluid flow visualization.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09599497&OS=09599497&RS=09599497
owner: The United States of America as Represented by the Administrator of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration
number: 09599497
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150729
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without payment of any royalties thereon or therefor.

The present invention relates generally to a system and method to obtain density changes in fluid flow around crafts and objects and more particularly to using Schlieren flow visualization.

It is important to be able to characterize fluid flow such as air current around aircraft and other objects such as windmills in order to maximize efficiency of these systems. One method of doing so is to use Schlieren flow visualization. Schlieren flow visualization is based on the deflection of light by a refractive index gradient. The index gradient is directly related to flow density gradient. The deflected light is compared to undeflected light at a viewing screen. The undisturbed light is partially blocked by a knife edge. The light that is deflected toward or away from the knife edge produces a shadow pattern depending upon whether it was previously blocked or unblocked. This shadow pattern is a light intensity representation of the expansions low density regions and compressions high density regions which characterize the flow.

Currently this method has been used in wind tunnels to characterize fluid flow around aircraft models and engine components. This is done via the flow visualization technique described above. More specifically the method uses Schlieren photography to obtain fluid flow data. Schlieren photography is similar to the shadowgraph technique and relies on the fact that light rays are bent whenever they encounter changes in density of a fluid. Schlieren systems are used to visualize the flow away from the surface of an object. One example of a Schlieren system uses two concave mirrors on either side of the test section of the wind tunnel. A mercury vapor lamp or a spark gap system is used as a bright source of light. The light is passed through a slit which is placed such that the reflected light from the mirror forms parallel rays that pass through the test section. On the other side of the tunnel the parallel rays are collected by another mirror and focused to a point at the knife edge. The rays continue on to a recording device like a video camera.

If the parallel rays of light encounter a density gradient in the test section the light is bent or refracted. If a shock wave has been generated by a model placed in the supersonic flow of the wind tunnel the ray of light passing through the shock wave is bent. This ray of light does not pass through the focal point but is stopped by the knife edge. The resulting image recorded by the camera has darkened lines that occur where the density gradients are present. The model completely blocks the passing of the light rays so a black image of the model is seen. But more importantly the shock waves generated by the model are now seen as darkened lines on the image. Hence the method allows one to visualize shock waves.

However when using the method in a wind tunnel a user will not be getting fluid flow visualization of an aircraft or other object s actual performance in the field but rather a simulation. In addition wind tunnel testing is very expensive.

It has also been contemplated to simply use the edge of the sun as a background for a Schlieren fluid flow analysis of aircraft fluid flow. However simply using the edge of the sun provides an extremely rough estimate of the fluid flow.

Therefore it is desired to provide a cost effective system and method to obtain relatively detailed fluid flow characterization around aircraft and other objects during actual operation.

Accordingly it is an objective of this invention to provide fluid flow characterization around aircraft and other objects during their operation.

It is another objective to provide a simple cost effective system and method to provide such fluid flow characterization.

This invention meets these and other objectives related to characterizing density changes in fluid flow from craft and other objects by providing an improved system for visualizing fluid flow around an object in operation comprising a celestial object having a speckled background and an imaging system focused on the celestial object. An aircraft or other object having a fluid flow around it is placed between or moves between the imaging system and the celestial object. Finally an image processing system capable of comparing an image of the celestial object background with no fluid flow to one or more images of the fluid flow in front of the celestial object background is employed. The invention also includes a method of using the above described system to characterize fluid flow around an aircraft or other object.

The invention proposed herein comprises a system that utilizes objects in the sky as a background for performing Background Oriented Schlieren BOS on an aircraft or other object in front of celestial objects. BOS is a flow visualization technique which uses digital image post processing to view the fluid density gradients around objects. The technique is performed by recording two images of a featured background. One image is taken through relatively constant air density and the second image is taken through the flow that is desired to be visualized. Refracted light rays can be detected measuring how many pixel features in the background have moved between the two images. This amount of movement corresponds to the 2nd derivative of fluid density much like the traditional shadowgraph.

To acquire pictures an imaging system must be focused on the background object such as the sun moon stars clouds etc and the desired flow to be visualized occurs in the optical path between the imaging system and the background. Image processing is performed by comparing the reference background image to each frame in which the flow to be visualized is occurring. To compare the image pairs the images must first be stabilized so the background in each frame does not change location within the frame. To achieve this the flow frames must be shifted to match the location of the reference background frame.

After each frame is aligned with the reference background frame changes between the reference background and each flow frame can be detected using established algorithms such as digital cross correlation or optical flow techniques. Cross correlation compares pixel patterns between frames to quantify the magnitude each pixel group as shifted as a result of the refracted light. Optical flow will compare the intensity of the reference image to the intensity of the flow image to determine changes between the two.

Once each frame has been compared to the reference background frame a median of the magnitudes of the differences for all the frames is taken to result in a single image which greatly reduces the noise when compared to each individual image.

It should be understood by those skilled in the art that when the application discusses aircraft or other objects this simply refers to objects that have fluid flow around them such fluid flow is normally air but could be other compressible fluids such as other gases . Examples of such objects include both powered objects such as aircraft and spacecraft and unpowered objects such as gliders wind turbines and the like. It should also be understood that when discussing a celestial object that the term as used herein is not limited to those objects outside the Earth s atmosphere and could include objects both within and outside the Earth s atmosphere. In addition the phrase having a speckled background as used herein means visual irregularities that are capable of being used in Schlieren flow visualization techniques. Those skilled in the art will understand the size and location of such irregularities necessary for such techniques and the word irregularities does not mean that the pattern thereon such objects need be irregular the pattern used for the invention described herein can be regular and merely is used to mean background shapes which can be any shape size etc. as long as it is capable of being used for Schlieren flow visualization .

Further when a celestial object is said to have a speckled background herein this can mean that the object can either have a visually natural speckled pattern such as craters etc. on the moon or the object would need to be capable of creating a speckled pattern within an image thereon such as using an optical filter in an imaging system that shows the pattern on the celestial object.

Finally the phrase speckled pattern used herein is merely synonymous with the phrase visual irregularities as defined above.

Referring to the invention comprises a celestial object having a speckled background . An imaging system is focused on the speckled background that is capable of taking images pictures of the celestial object . An object that includes a fluid flow around it is located so the fluid flow is between the imaging system and the celestial object so that the fluid flow is in the optical path of the imaging system between it and the speckled background .

The celestial object chosen to be used in the present invention merely needs to be able to be imaged with a speckled background . Some celestial objects that may be used in the invention include the sun the moon clouds or stars. The preferred celestial objects for use in the invention are the sun or the moon due to their size location and their inherently speckled backgrounds . depict examples of the moon and sun respectively showing speckled backgrounds that could be used in the present invention. The arrows in the FIGS. merely reflect examples of speckles or irregularities it would be obvious to one skilled in the art that there are potentially hundreds of such speckles in these FIGS. One other note of interest is that the speckles in are not in the visible spectrum as discussed further below.

Returning to the objects discussed herein are those that have a fluid flow moving around them. In addition the objects used in the present invention are those that can be located so their fluid flow is within the field of view of the imaging system and the chosen celestial object . Examples of objects of the present invention include aircraft spacecraft and wind turbines.

The imaging system should be capable of taking images of the object in front of the speckled background . disclose embodiments of the imaging system used when the celestial object is the sun and moon respectively. In a preferred embodiment of the invention the imaging system comprises a telescope with a high speed digital camera affixed thereto. The telescope may be selected by one skilled in the art but examples of preferred telescopes include a Celestron eight inch telescope for use with the moon as a celestial object and a Vixen telescope for use with the sun as a celestial object . The camera preferably is a high speed high resolution camera. In a most preferred embodiment the camera is monochrome but a color camera can be used in the present invention. The camera needs to be capable of taking images of moving objects such as aircraft or spacecraft with the celestial object behind said moving objects hence the speed of the camera must be sufficient to obtain such images before the moving object move away from the celestial object . Preferably the resolution of the camera should exceed 1 megapixel and the speed should exceed 100 frames per second .

In a more preferred embodiment the telescope is attached to a tripod to hold the telescope and camera steady. The tripod may include an auto rotating mount to enable a user to more easily and precisely align the telescope . The mount is selected based on the size and weight of the telescope and camera being used. Examples of preferred mounts include a Celestron auto rotating mount for use with a Celestron eight inch telescope and a Meade motorized mount for use with a Vixen telescope.

A separate battery may be attached to power the auto rotating mount and the camera . For most uses a twelve volt battery is sufficient for these purposes. A remote camera trigger may be attached to the camera to allow a user to take images with the camera without handling it directly. A remote may also be included for the auto rotating mount . A storage processing device may be attached to view and store the images taken by the camera and to process the images as discussed further below. In a preferred embodiment the storage processing device is a laptop computer or the like. The laptop computer can be used to process the images taken by the camera as discussed above or such processing can be done using a separate processing device.

In an embodiment of the invention the imaging system used when the celestial object is the sun see includes a filter placed between the camera and the telescope . Because the sun does not possess a sufficiently speckled background in the normal visual spectrum the filter should enable imaging of the granulation cells in the sun for use in the present invention. One preferred filter is a calcium K optical filter which only allows the 393.4 meter wavelength of light to pass through it which is the wavelength of light emitted by ionized calcium atoms. These calcium atoms mainly exist in areas of the solar surface with strong magnetic fields such as sun spots and granulation cells. Thus this type of filter allows the granulation cells and sun spots to be used to define a speckled background for use in the present invention. One example of such a filter is a Lunt B1200 calcium K filter.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention using the sun as the celestial object a focal extender is placed between the telescope and the camera to increase magnification of the image which in turn increases the resolution of the background. An example of a preferred focal extender is a Barlow Lens 2 focal extender.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention using the moon as the celestial object see a focal reducer is placed between the telescope and the camera . The focal extender is for the reduction of magnification to allow the entire image of the moon to fit within the image frame. In a preferred embodiment a 60 focal extender is used.

First the imaging system discussed above is focused on a celestial object having a speckled background. Next an image is taken of the celestial object focused on the speckled background. Then one or more images are taken of the fluid flow aligned between the imaging system and the celestial object. Finally the first image is compared to the other image s to visualize the fluid flow this processing can be done as discussed above .

What is described herein are specific examples of many possible variations on the same invention and are not intended in a limiting sense. The claimed invention can be practiced using other variations not specifically described above.

