---

title: Adaptive environment targeting
abstract: Systems and methods provide adapted content to a visitor to a physical environment. An example method receives an image of a visitor to an environment. A visitor portion of the image is distinct from an environment portion of the image. The method detects one or more shapes in the visitor portion of the image using an automatic shape detection technique and defines an approximate boundary of the one or more shapes using a mask. The one or more shapes can be shapes of the visitor's clothing items. The method then calculates an attribute for an area of the image within the mask and identifies electronic content based on the attribute for the area of the image within the mask. The attribute can be a color attribute for the area such as a median color or a dominant color. The method provides the identified electronic content for display in the environment.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09449254&OS=09449254&RS=09449254
owner: Adobe Systems Incorporated
number: 09449254
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150804
---
This disclosure relates generally to computer implemented methods and systems for presenting electronic content on display screens and more particularly relates to techniques for presenting electronic content that is adapted to targeted people viewing screens in an open physical environment such as a store.

In an establishment with an open environment such as a retail store there can be one or more electronic displays for displaying information to patrons customers guests or other visitors. Such displays can be large screens mounted in locations that are readily visible such as above entrances or aisles near store shelves or product displays on walls or in other suitable locations. The displays can be included in embedded devices that are used for a variety of purposes such as digital signage product images advertising and providing various other forms of information that may be of interest to the visitors. However if the content presented on the displays is passive and not dynamically adapted to visitors in the environment the visitors may not be responsive to products featured on the displays. Conventional electronic displays may only be able to show outdated non customized information to the visitors. Such information is not adapted or tailored to specific customers in the environment.

In certain physical environments digital signage including product images web content advertisements and other electronic content can be displayed on large screens. One such environment is a retail store. These screens can be in embedded devices that access common content. The screens can share the common content but not necessarily show content that is relevant to visitors currently in the environment. The content can be pulled or pushed from a system or server which is typically remote and does not provide content to the embedded devices and their screens that is targeted to visitors that are in proximity to the screens. To achieve high levels of portability screens of these embedded devices may be dedicated to displaying web content obtained from a remote web server or content repository. Traditional embedded devices must each separately connect to a remote system e.g. a server or a repository in order to obtain content to be displayed. However the content provided to such a device is passive and is not actively adapted to a visitor that is currently looking at the device s screen.

It is desirable to display adapted content to targeted visitors to a physical environment where the content is displayed on screens in the environment while the visitors are viewing the screens. Efficient adaption and display of such content can increase visitor responsiveness to products depicted in the content while the visitor is in the environment e.g. while a shopper is in a store .

In one embodiment a method includes receiving at a computing device in a physical environment an image of a visitor to the physical environment. A visitor portion of the image is distinct from an environment portion of the image. According to an embodiment the image can be a video frame of a visitor to an environment such as a store. The method then detects one or more shapes in the visitor portion of the image using an automatic shape detection technique and defines an approximate boundary of the one or more shapes using a mask. The one or more shapes can be shapes of clothing items on the visitor. The method calculates an attribute for an area of the image within the mask. The attribute can be a color attribute for the area such as a median color or a dominant color. The attribute can be an item size or item type of an item detected in the area of the image within the mask. The method then identifies electronic content based on the attribute for the area of the image within the mask. The method provides the identified electronic content for display in the environment. The identified electronic content can include product images web content a three dimensional 3D product model and multimedia content.

In another embodiment a system has an input device a display device a camera a processor and a memory. The memory has instructions stored thereon that if executed by the processor cause the processor to perform operations for providing adapted content to a visitor to an environment. The operations include receiving from the camera an image of a visitor to an environment a visitor portion of the image being distinct from an environment portion of the image. The operations further include detecting a shape in the visitor portion of the image using an automatic shape detection technique. According to this embodiment the operations include defining an approximate boundary of the shape using a mask and calculating an attribute for an area of the image within the mask. The operations also include identifying electronic content based on the attribute for the area of the image within the mask and then providing the identified electronic content for display in the environment.

These illustrative features are mentioned not to limit or define the disclosure but to provide examples to aid understanding thereof. Additional embodiments are discussed in the Detailed Description and further description is provided there. Advantages offered by one or more of the various embodiments may be further understood by examining this specification or by practicing one or more embodiments presented.

Content displayed on in store monitors and other electronic displays in an environment using prior techniques is the same regardless of which visitors are in the store viewing the content. The invention provides adapted electronic content and assets for display that are tailored to one or more of the particular visitors in the store by using one or more images of the visitors in the environment. In one example an image of a visitor is captured and analyzed at the device or using a remote server to identify the portion of the image that corresponds to the visitor. An object such as shorts pants a shirt a hat glasses a tie a tennis racquet etc. is identified in the portion of the image and an attribute of the identified object such as its color attribute its item type or size etc. is used to identify tailored content that is displayed in the environment while the visitor is still in the environment e.g. while a shopper is in a store . This can be facilitated by defining an approximate boundary of the shape using a computer generated mask and then identifying one or more attributes of the image within the mask for use in identifying the tailored content. Because attributes of the visitor are used to automatically select the adapted content the visitor is presented with content that is more likely relevant to the visitor s interests. Presenting such adapted content for a product to a targeted visitor is more likely to engage that visitor in the product. Increasing visitor engagement can result in a higher conversion rate e.g. converting a visitor into a purchaser . In one particular example a store visitor wearing blue jeans and a white shirt is presented with an advertisement for shoes offered in the store where the shoes are depicted in colors that complement the visitor s jeans and shirt. The advertisement is displayed to the visitor on an in store display screen while the visitor is shopping in the store.

Embodiments provide a system including a digital signage device connected to a screen via a video interface. The digital signage device has a connection to at least one video camera. For example the video camera can be installed in front of the screen pointing in the direction of a viewer of a screen. In certain embodiments the camera can be a webcam or any camera capable of capturing video frames of a person proximate to the screen. In some embodiments the device has connections to other input devices such as a touchscreen a keyboard and a pointing device. The device can be attached to a local network such as a local area network LAN or an Internet connection. The digital signage device can be located in an open environment such as a store.

In one example when a person stops to look at the screen of an in store digital signage device the device s camera captures a video frame of the person. Then an automatic camera based clothing pattern recognition or assistive clothing pattern recognition technique can be used to detect shapes of clothes on the person. Next a mask is applied for the detected clothes shapes. An embodiment automatically chooses an appropriate mask size for each of the detected clothes shapes instead of using fixed geometrical shapes. A mask for a clothing item shape can be created by classifying each pixel in an area of the image as being part of the clothing item or not. The mask is applied to the image and can be used to determine color attributes of the person s clothing items. A color attribute can be any measure of color s present in an area of an image. An example color attribute can be a simple statistical median of colors present in a clothing item e.g. in the mask area of the image . Such a color attribute can be expressed in terms of regular red green blue RGB color values. Another example color attribute is a dominant color for a multicolored or patterned clothing item. For instance plaid striped checkered or otherwise patterned clothing may contain multiple shades of hues of blue and only one shade or hue of red. In this example the dominant color of the clothing item will be blue.

After the color attributes of the person s clothing items are determined a 3D model of an advertised product can be adapted by matching a color scheme of the model with the color attributes of the person s clothing items. The matching can depend on the product being advertised and a predefined marketing campaign for the product. A marketer interface can be used to define a marketing campaign for the product that stipulates how the product s color schemes are to be matched to color attributes of a person s clothes. For example a marketer can use the interface to indicate whether the product s colors should match with the person s shirt rather than the person s skirt or pants. Similarly the marketer can indicate if the product s colors should match specific color attributes. For instance the marketer can indicate if the product model should have similar colors to the person s clothing or inverse colors. An embodiment may also be used to suggest improvements to the person s clothing colors by providing the person with images of more complimentary color matches via the in store digital signage device.

In order to provide an experience that is adapted to a visitor to an environment where a digital signage device is installed embodiments provide a mechanism to let the device communicate with a content management tool and an asset modeler see e.g. content management tool asset modeler and digital signage device in . In an embodiment the device can provide a plain browser or an embedded browser environment using a browser such as for example Chromium to run a web application. The web application referred to herein as a player application or player app can be configured to communicate with a web server on the same digital signage device that hosts the player application. In additional or alternative embodiments the device can render electronic content in a native application or as part of a video using any rendering mechanism. In one embodiment the communication between the player application and the local web server is over a Websocket connection. For instance the Websocket connection can be a connection compliant with a World Wide Web Consortium W3C standard. In one example embodiment the local host can be implemented as an embedded web server that provides a data backend. The browser can be used to access a web site that includes an asset such as an image of a product. Content of the web site can be retrieved from a content management tool and the asset can be retrieved from an asset modeler. In certain embodiments this retrieval of web site content and assets is achieved via communications between a digital signage device a content management tool and an asset modeler see e.g. digital signage device content management tool and asset modeler in . These communications may be done through Websocket connections.

By using the systems and methods described herein a digital signage device in an environment can present content on its screen that is adapted to a visitor to the environment while the visitor is viewing the screen. This content can be tailored to a particular visitor based on what that visitor is wearing. For example by analyzing color of clothing items present in an image of the visitor captured by a camera of the device the device can present content that is adapted to what that visitor is wearing. The adaptation of content to the visitor can be performed in part by a remote server such as a server used to implement the content management tool shown in .

When a visitor to an establishment views a screen of a digital signage device embodiments enable the device to present content that it is customized or tailored for that visitor. This tailored content can then be targeted for a visitor that is near the digital signage device at the establishment. Many establishments such as retail stores and office buildings have computing devices with network connectivity and web browsers or other applications for accessing and presenting information. These computing devices may be mobile or embedded devices installed in fixed locations e.g. wall mounted or installed in a kiosk within a particular environment. When a visitor is in close proximity to one of the establishment s devices there is an opportunity for the device to capture an image of the visitor and present content that is adapted for that visitor based on the captured image. Requiring each digital signage device at a location to individually display tailored content using a remote system such as a campaign management system a remote web server or a content delivery system can require bandwidth intensive communications. These communications can delay delivery of content to the digital signage devices thus introducing lag times and preventing the devices from presenting timely adapted content while the visitor is still in close proximity to one of the devices. These and other limitations increase the difficulty of displaying adapted content for a particular visitor at a location.

To this end and in accordance with embodiments techniques are disclosed for presenting content that is adapted to a visitor to an establishment that is in close proximity to a digital signage device s display screen. The digital signage device is configured to execute a local web browser which can include a suitable player application for retrieving displaying and interacting with content. The device can be a digital signage device. The device can include a camera and can use the Web Real Time Communication WebRTC application programming interface API to access the camera. The device can use the Web Graphics Library WebGL JavaScript API to render interactive three dimensional 3D graphics adapted for the visitor. For example WebGL can be used to draw 3D models of assets or products e.g. a 3D model of a shoe on the display of the device. The web browser of the device can be configured to display among other things electronic assets and web content such as for example interactive web content signage product images 3D models of products and marketing content including offers and advertisements. A user of the device e.g. the visitor can interact with the content. For instance the visitor can use a touchscreen or other input device to manipulate and view a 3D image of a product by rotating and zooming the image.

One example use case is as follows. A digital signage device has its own screen in a retail store. The device can be a digital signage device a kiosk or a wall mounted device at a location in the store. The digital signage device is configured to display product images offers and other dynamic content to customers in the store. The digital signage device has input devices e.g. camera touchscreen display keyboard pointing device or other input devices that the customers can use to provide input to the device. The store s webpage or other content pertinent to the store is displayed on the screen. For example if the digital signage device is in the store s shoe section images of shoes available for purchase at the store may be displayed. The device can use the WebRTC API to access a camera e.g. a webcam installed near the digital signage device. For instance a video camera mounted at the top of the digital signage device s screen can capture video frames of customers that pause in front of the display. Similarly for example a webcam that streams images in real time to a communications network can also capture video frames of customers that pause in front of the display.

By using an image capture device such as a camera the digital signage device can detect that a customer has paused in front of or is viewing the screen and then use the camera to capture an image of the customer. That is the image of the customer is input obtained via the digital signage device s camera. The camera can capture images periodically. For instance a webcam installed near the screen can capture video frames every second or every five seconds. When it is determined that a captured image e.g. a video frame includes a customer the device analyzes this particular frame and determines see if the customer is in close proximity to the screen. If so the device provides the video frame to a system that performs clothing pattern recognition. One example technique is assistive clothing pattern recognition. Assistive clothing pattern recognition can be used to find simple clothing patterns in the video frame. Examples of such clothing patterns include a t shirt pants a blouse shorts and a skirt. The clothing pattern recognition detects shapes of clothing items worn by the customer and then compares those shapes to pre defined shapes. For example regardless of the customer s gender or size a t shirt worn by the customer will have a similar shape and can be identified as a t shirt based on its shape.

After analyzing the video frame and determining that there is a person in front of the screen masking is done on the frame. Masking is done in order to delineate between different clothing items present in the frame. Mask accomplishes this by creating a mask corresponding to a shape of each clothing item detected in the frame. For example a mask for a t shirt worn by a person can be created by classifying each pixel in the area of the image corresponding to the t shirt as being part of the mask. In this case other pixels of the image are not included in the t shirt mask see e.g. the shirt mask shown in step of . The t shirt mask is created so that the mask has a shape and dimensions similar to the actual t shirt in the image.

By applying a mask for each clothing item found in the frame a respective color attribute of each item can be determined. A mask can be created by using a cut of the frame where a clothing item e.g. a t shirt is positioned in the frame. In one example HTML5 camera technology can be used by the device to draw the image with the mask into the camera. This drawing is done in the background. That is the masked image is not depicted on the screen for the customer to view. The masked image has the position of the clothing item cut out of the original video frame image of the customer. Next the mask is used to determine colors within the mask area. For instance the mask can be used to determine an average color or most dominant colors within the mask area. A most dominant color can be a color present in more pixels within the mask area or a subset thereof than other colors but not present in enough pixels to constitute an average color for the mask area or the subset . The average color can be an average or median color of the whole clothing item e.g. the entire t shirt . In an additional or alternative embodiment the device can figure out if the top of the t shirt area is different from the bottom color. At this point the mask can be used many different ways in order to determine average colors present within the mask area. Once the colors are determined the device can present a color matched image of a complimentary product on the screen. For example an image of a shoe having a color scheme that compliments the t shirt can be presented on the screen. Complimentary colors and compatible color schemes can be selected by a marketer ahead of time. For instance a marketer can use a user interface to define a campaign based on customers clothes where the interface enables the marketer to select products with certain color schemes to be presented to a customer wearing clothes having certain colors. With the example of a shoe a default color of red can be selected and when a customer stops in front of the screen and the device determines that the person is wearing a blue t shirt and white pants then the device can decide based upon determining that the t shirt is blue to try to find a matching or complimentary blue color for the shoe. The device may then present a 3D model of the shoe with a changed color from red to blue . In addition to the t shirt the color matching decision for the shoe can be further based on a calculated average color of pants or a skirt the customer is wearing.

Another example use case is as follows. In a location such as a retail store a mobile device or a tethered device e.g. a tethered tablet has a screen that is displaying content of the store s website. A shopper in the store interacts with the screen to navigate to a product of interest. As the shopper is using the device an integrated camera in the device captures an image of the shopper. At this point the clothing pattern recognition masking and color analysis discussed above is performed. The colors of the shopper s clothing items can be determined by going pixel by pixel through a masked area corresponding to each detected clothing item and calculating the most dominant colors an average color and or the statistical median color of the pixels making up the clothing item. Alternatively a median color or dominant can be determined instead of the average. This may be useful in cases where clothing items are multicolored or patterned. Also as discussed above the color analysis could also try to figure out an average color of a top e.g. a shirt or blouse and an average color of a bottom e.g. pants shorts or a skirt . After analyzing the color of the clothing items product images with color schemes that compliment what the shopper is wearing are presented on the screen. In this way the shopper can be presented with an image of a product that is color matched to be coordinated with what the shopper is currently wearing. The customer can then interact with the screen to manipulate the image e.g. rotate and or zoom the image change the product color s and simulate selection of product accessories . The shopper can also use the device to determine in store availability of the product having the selected color scheme. Numerous other example use cases for adapting content for targeted visitors to an environment will be apparent in light of this disclosure.

As used herein a computing device refers to any type of computing device configured to communicate with another computing device over a network to access information including mobile computing devices servers and other computing devices. A mobile computing device may allow mobility to the user during at least operation and may include for example a mobile phone a smart phone a personal digital assistant PDA a tablet device and other mobile computing devices. In comparison other computing devices may be more stationary may include relatively more processing power and memory space than those of mobile computing devices and may have an operating system that is more sophisticated than operating systems typically running on mobile computing devices. A laptop a tablet device a personal computer a desktop computer a digital signage device and a server are examples of such other computing devices.

As used herein the terms embedded device and digital signage device refer to any computing device configured to exchange and display electronic content in an environment. In one embodiment a digital signage device has a display device e.g. a screen and hosts a browser. The browser can display content from a web server. According to this embodiment the browser can include a player application configured to provide a view of electronic content on the display device. The electronic content can include a 3D model of a product product images and product videos. In some embodiments digital signage devices can be embedded devices at a location in the environment such as for example kiosks wall mounted devices or table mounted devices at locations in a store.

As used herein application refers to a program configured to access and retrieve information hosted on a computing system e.g. content from a web site hosted on a server web management system and or a content delivery system and to render the information at a user interface. Examples of such an application include a content management tool an asset modeler a web browser a player application e.g. a player app or a video rendering app a script or a plug in that runs within a web browser a program that is hosted in a web browser a program that is separate from but that interfaces with a web browser such as a player application a native application on a device an image processor a clothes detector a color decision maker and other types of programs capable of using local memory and a rendering engine to access and render content.

As used herein the terms web browser and browser refer to any application for retrieving presenting and traversing information resources. Such information resources may be referenced via a Uniform Resource Identifier or Locator URI URL and contain any type of web content. Non limiting examples of a web browser include Microsoft Internet Explorer Safari from Apple Inc. Mozilla Firefox Opera and Google Chrome.

As used herein the terms electronic content content web content campaign content marketing content assets electronic assets or campaign assets refer to any type of resource or media that can be rendered for display on computing devices. Electronic content can include text or multimedia files such as images 3D graphics video audio or any combination thereof. Electronic content can include digital signage content product images 3D product models advertising content e.g. content for in store advertisements promotional content and web content. Electronic content can also include application software that is designed to perform one or more specific tasks at a computing system or computing device. Computing devices include client and server devices such as but not limited to servers desktop computers laptop computers smart phones video game consoles smart televisions tablet computers portable gaming devices personal digital assistants PDAs etc. Electronic content can be streamed to replicated to downloaded by and or uploaded from computing devices. Electronic content can include multimedia hosted on web sites such as Internet web sites intranet web sites standard web pages or mobile web pages specifically formatted for display on mobile computing devices. Electronic content can also include application software developed for computing devices where the software is designed to perform one or more specific tasks at the computing device.

Electronic content can be in the form of electronic content streamed from a server system to a client computing device. Streaming electronic content can include for example audiovisual content provided using a streaming protocol such as but not limited to real time messaging protocol RTMP HTTP dynamic streaming HDS and HTTP Live Streaming HLS .

As used herein the terms visitor shopper person and customer refer to any person present in a physical environment. In one embodiment a visitor is a person who visits an open physical environment such as a retail store. A visitor to an environment can view a screen of a digital signage device in the environment and an image of the visitor can be captured by a camera associated with the digital signage device. There is a visitor portion of the image and an environment portion of the image.

As used herein visitor portion of the image refers to a portion of an image that includes the visitor items worn by the visitor e.g. apparel items glasses ties hats et al. and other items held or carried by the visitor e.g. sports equipment bags purses and luggage . For instance the visitor portion of an image captured in a retail store will depict a store visitor e.g. shopper as opposed to the non visitor items in the foreground or background of the image e.g. store shelves displays and products for sale .

As used herein environment portion of the image refers to a portion of an image that includes non visitor items depicting the physical environment where the image was captured. For example the environment portion of an image captured in a store may include store fixtures shelves products and displays in the image background or foreground that do not form part of the visitor portion of the image. A physical environment can be a store an area of a store a lobby of a building a public transit station a convention center a music or sports venue a conference room in a building or any other location accessible by visitors.

In an example embodiment a web site displayed at a digital signage device can connect to a content management tool and an asset modeler for content retrieval purposes. For example an in store digital signage device can connect to a remote server of a content management tool and an asset modeler to obtain campaign assets and content for a store website. The digital signage device retrieves content for a website which can be shown to a store visitor on a large screen e.g. a connected smart television a conventional television or computer display device including a liquid crystal display LCD or a light emitting diode LED display of the digital signage device. In one embodiment the screen of the digital signage device is sufficiently large to display a life sized image of the visitor along with content including life sized images of one or more products. The content can include images video or code executable for rendering images video and or text on the display e.g. JavaScript code . The content can include electronic campaign assets such as for example 3D product models documents graphics advertisements presentations streaming content HTML files or any other form of data. The content when displayed on the digital signage device can be specifically adapted for a visitor viewing the screen of the digital signage device. In some cases a capture image of the visitor is sent from the digital signage device to the asset modeler so that the modeler can uniquely adapt the colors of a product model based on colors of clothing present in the image of visitor. In such cases the asset modeler sends product images or models customized for the visitor while the visitor is in proximity to the digital signage device. Such content can be displayed on a screen of the digital signage device. The digital signage device can be embodied for example as an embedded device with a large mounted screen and or a mobile device. The digital signage device can be associated with a certain location in an open environment such as an area of a store a lobby of a building a public transit station a conference room in a building or a publicly accessible location.

In an embodiment system can comprise one or more components such as but not limited to content management tool asset modeler an input device configured to interact with a browser such as browser a touch screen display device configured to render a content view such as screen . As shown a digital signage device can include browser screen and camera . In additional or alternative embodiments digital signage device can render electronic content in a native application or render video using any rendering mechanism. Embodiments are not limited to this example system and it would be apparent to those skilled in the art that other content navigation and display devices can be used in embodiments described herein as digital signage devices including but not limited to embedded devices personal computers mobile devices such as smart phones laptops tablet computing devices or other devices suitable for rendering content on a display such as screen . Many additional devices can be used with system beyond the components and devices illustrated in . In an embodiment a digital signage device may be integrated with screen so that the two form a single integrated component. For example digital signage devices can include any suitable computing devices for communicating via a LAN and or WAN rendering a user interface UI and or executing browser to render web site with asset .

As shown in each of the content management tool asset modeler and browser are communicatively coupled to each other. This coupling can be through a local area network LAN such as a LAN at a retail store. The components of system shown in can also be communicatively coupled through a wide area network WAN .

Although not depicted in in an alternative embodiment a content repository can be located separately from system and content management tool . Content management tool asset modeler and browser can receive operational commands from users via respective input devices. The input devices can include for example touchscreen displays. The operational commands can include commands to initiate navigation in browser or selecting assets and content via content management tool . For example commands to navigate to select view and modify assets such as product images can be received at an input device of content management tool . An external keyboard pointing device remote control not shown or other input device may be used to control operation of content management tool asset modeler and browser . Some embedded digital signage devices may have integrated input devices or controls thereon not requiring the use of an external input device. For example digital signage device can be embodied as a kiosk wherein screen is an embedded display within the kiosk and browser executes on one or more processors housed within the kiosk.

It is to be appreciated that the content management tool could provide any type of audio visual content. Content playing viewing and interaction as described herein refers to any use of content that is generally available for delivery to an individual digital signage device. Targeted campaign content delivery to a given digital signage device such as screen can be initiated upon an explicit push from a color decision maker or as a pull in response to an explicit request from a user e.g. a shopper at that digital signage device. Content management tool may also be referred to as a server herein. As part of a product browsing session in browser asset modeler can provide a color matched model of an asset e.g. a 3D model of a target product stored in a content repository or remotely at a web server. In the example shown in asset modeler can be implemented using the Adobe Scene7 dynamic media platform.

According to an embodiment content management tool displays marketer UIs shown in including a UI for selecting content and versions of content to be displayed on different types of devices e.g. digital signage devices smart TVs and mobile devices . In embodiments screen may be one or more of a television a network enabled television a monitor the display of a tablet device the display of a laptop the display of a mobile phone or the display of a personal computer. In an embodiment digital signage device includes a cable set top box STB connected to screen . In this embodiment screen may be a television or monitor connected to the STB of digital signage device .

Content management tool can provide different versions of content for web site via a WAN. These versions can include content matched to a type of screen associated with a particular digital signage device . In embodiments a particular one of versions of content can optionally be selected by a marketer or system administrator where the selection is based in part on characteristics of a particular screen where the version of content is to be viewed. The version of content for web site provided to digital signage device may be resident in any suitable computer readable medium database and or memory accessible by browser or a player application hosted on that digital signage device . In one embodiment a particular one of the versions is provided in a resolution compatible with a particular screen of a digital signage device that the content is to be viewed on. In one embodiment the various versions of the content e.g. different versions of image data can be accessed by the content management tool from a remote location via a WAN and provided to a digital signage device. Each of the versions can include a copy of some or all of the content encoded at a given bit rate and or bit size appropriate for the destination digital signage device.

Content management tool can include any suitable computing system for hosting and delivering content. For instance content management tool can include a backend server that is remote from digital signage device at a store. In one embodiment content management tool and asset modeler may be hosted on a single computing system. In other embodiments content management tool and asset modeler may be hosted on separate servers or on a virtual server implemented using multiple computing systems or servers connected in a grid or cloud computing topology. As described below with reference to web management system can be implemented on a computing system having a single processor in a multi core multiprocessor system. Such a system can be configured to operate alone with a single back end server or in a cluster of computing devices operating in a cluster or server farm used to implement content management tool .

Electronic content and other data may be exchanged between components of system via a data communications network such as the Internet a wide area network WAN or a local area network LAN . For instance in an environment where browser screen and camera are installed as components of an in store digital signage device a LAN at the store can be used to exchange data between content management tool asset modeler and browser of digital signage device . In embodiments an in store LAN and or a WAN can be one of or a combination of a wireless or wired network such as WiFi Internet Hybrid Fiber Coax Data Over Cable Service Interface Specification DOCSIS ATM or any other wired or wireless network. Content management tool and asset modeler may store and deliver content including but not limited to interactive 3D product models product images streaming video web content for web site assets such as in store advertisements promotional content and adapted images of a shopper. Certain types of delivered content can be interactive and can be manipulated by store visitors at digital signage device . For example a shopper may be able rotate zoom and otherwise manipulate a 3D image of a product image included as an asset in the web site that the shopper is viewing on screen . By using digital signage device a store visitor whose image is captured by camera will be able to view and interact with content that has been selected and adapted based on what the visitor is wearing.

Although only a single digital signage device is shown in it is to be understood that by using system adapted content can be presented to multiple digital signage devices in an environment such as a store. For example a first asset e.g. a product image with a color scheme adapted for a first customer at digital signage device can be displayed on screen while another adapted asset e.g. an image of another product or an image of the same product with a different color scheme can be displayed on another digital signage device.

Digital signage devices at different locations in a store can establish respective network connections via a LAN with each other. The digital signage devices can also establish respective network connections with content management tool and asset modeler via a WAN. A browser or content player application can be executed at digital signage device to establish network connections via a LAN to access content of web site . The network connections can be used to provide targeted content by communicating packetized data representing the content to digital signage devices . Embodiments improve the efficiency and operation of system by automatically adapting and tailoring content to a particular customer who is viewing screen instead of providing all possible permutations of product content. For example embodiments reduce the amount of generic content sent to digital signage device thus using less computing resources to transmit content via a LAN or WAN while also requiring less resources from digital signage device to render the content on screen . That is adapting product images to match a customer s clothes avoids the need for system to transmit and present product images for all possible product color combinations or schemes. Using a computing device to automatically select product images matching the customer s clothes also enables system to present the product images to the customer in near real time while the customer is still viewing screen .

Screen can be integrated with digital signage device that hosts browser . As illustrated in screen can be communicatively connected to camera which can read images of visitors that are near screen . For example camera can be mounted on the top of screen so that camera can capture images of shoppers that pause in front of screen . The system accesses a data backend such as content management tool in order to manage a campaign. In one embodiment assets to be included in a campaign can be designated or selected by a marketer using a user interface of content management tool . For example content management tool may be used to select product images and other asset content that is modeled by asset modeler . As shown in the example of content management tool can be embodied as an Adobe Experience Manager system.

The content management tool and asset modeler can be located off site remote from a store location where browser screen and camera are located. The content management tool can be implemented as part of a content management system providing a marketer user interface UI a staging area for campaign content and publishing of activated campaign assets. Examples of marketer UIs are discussed below with reference to . In one example embodiment a content management tool such as Adobe Experience Manager can be used as the content management tool . The content management tool can maintain sets of assets for a promotional or marketing campaign to be modeled by asset modeler and displayed on screen . In some embodiments content management tool can be implemented as a content delivery system.

The digital signage device with screen and camera can receive data from the content management tool via web site . The data can include electronic content of website such as HTML documents images video et al. to be displayed by the browser . The digital signage device is configured to use browser to display content of web site that can be persisted on a web server by content management tool . The content of web site can include images read by camera . As shown in an image read by camera can be transmitted to content management tool . After the read image is received by content management tool the image can be transmitted to image processor for processing. The functionality of image processor is described in the following paragraph. Product images and models e.g. assets can be adapted or modified for a visitor by asset modeler . As shown web site can also include one or more assets received from asset modeler . As shown in browser can send modify image commands to asset modeler . The modify image commands can instruct asset modeler to model a certain color scheme for asset where the color scheme is based on decisions made by color decision maker which is described below. In the non limiting example of asset modeler can be implemented using the Adobe Scene7 dynamic media platform. Asset modeler can be used to create an asset such as a 3D model of a product or a product image. Asset modeler then includes the asset in web site . At this point asset is available for presentation by browser on screen .

System also includes image processor clothes detector and color decision maker . In the example of digital signage device can send a video frame image read by camera to content management tool which in turn sends the image to image processor . Image processor can process the video frame to determine that the image includes a person who stopped to look at screen or is within range of camera . For instance image processor can detect based on an image from camera that the image includes a shopper at an in store display screen . Image processor can detect the shopper within a visitor portion of the image where the visitor portion of the image is distinct from an environment portion of the image. Once image processor detects a person it can pass the image of the person to clothes detector . Clothes detector can detect shapes in the image and apply masks to the detected shapes. Clothes detector can detect shapes of clothing items worn by a visitor e.g. a shopper or customer in the visitor portion of the image using an automatic shape detection technique. Examples of such techniques include assistive clothing pattern recognition and automatic clothing pattern recognition. As would be readily apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art assistive clothing pattern recognition and automatic clothing pattern recognition can be used to perform shape recognition for clothing item shapes as well as color identification for clothing item shapes. For example clothes detector can detect shapes of multiple clothing items e.g. a top such as shirt and a bottom such as pants or a skirt worn by a shopper near digital signage device . Examples of such detected clothing item shapes are depicted in see e.g. steps of and time in .

After the clothing shapes are detected and corresponding masks are applied color decision maker can analyze each detected shape in order to calculate a statistical median color or a dominant color present within each shape. In one embodiment color decision maker can create regular red green blue RGB color values for each shape corresponding to a clothing item worn by the shopper near digital signage device . According to this embodiment color decision maker calculates RGB color values for each mask area where the RGB color values correspond to the RGB color model. After a median or dominant color is calculated for each detected clothing item color decision maker decides compatible or complimentary colors for the asset being displayed with web site . As shown the color decision made by color decision maker is then provided to content management tool which in turn coordinates with asset modeler to deliver updated assets to screen of digital signage device via web site . The color decision regarding compatible colors can be made based on a complimentary product color scheme that was previously selected using content management tool . For example a marketer can interact with a user interface of content management tool to select pairings of product colors that the marketer deems to be compatible with or complimentary to certain clothing colors. The clothing colors can be expressed in terms of RGB color values. In this way when browser opens web site with asset the asset will be rendered having a color scheme e.g. a single color or a plurality of colors that the marketer has previously selected as being compatible with colors present in the clothes worn by the shopper near digital signage device . In an embodiment clothes detector and color decision maker can be invoked iteratively in order to detect multiple shapes e.g. multiple items of clothes and calculate an average or dominant color present within each detected shape. According to this embodiment for each iteration or loop the color decision for a given shape in a plurality of detected shapes is passed to content management tool .

Next at step each detected clothing item is analyzed. As shown step can include using a statistical median of colors in respective mask areas to determine RGB color values for those mask areas. In the example of step determines an RGB color value for a skirt worn by person and another RGB value for a shirt worn by person .

Then at step results are presented to person . In the example of the results are presented on screen to person while the person is in the store. As shown the results include a campaign asset displayed as a product image e.g. an image of shoes on in store screen . Step presents the product image with a color scheme that is compatible with the colors present in the clothes worn by person . In this way workflow promotes a product to person by presenting an image of the product that has colors that compliment what person is currently wearing. This may make person more likely to purchase the presented product because person can readily see on screen how the product would look if worn with the person s clothing items.

Workflow can be performed using a digital signage device with a screen and camera deployed in environments such as for example a store a section of a store e.g. an apparel or sportswear section a show room a museum or other environments with fixed mounted positions of screens and associated cameras. It is to be understood that in addition to mounted digital signage devices embodiments can also display targeted content to mobile screens such as for example a tablet device associated with a section of a store e.g. an apparel or sportswear section a smartphone in use in the store section and or tethered devices such as tethered mobile devices in stores. Workflow can be used to provide product information via embedded and tethered devices in environments such as car showrooms and installations at venues for conferences and sporting events.

As seen in workflow can use a digital signage device that is communicatively connected to a camera via a local network e.g. a local area network LAN and communicatively connected to an asset modeler via another suitable network e.g. a wide area network WAN such as the Internet . Generally the digital signage device can be any type of device such as a personal computer PC tablet or smart phone configured to access and present content e.g. a web page images a 3D product model a word processing document a fixed layout document etc. provided by a content providing server of a content management tool. The digital signage device can include a screen for displaying among other things content rendered by a browser. The screen can also be used to display any other type of human readable content. The screen can include any electronic visual display device e.g. a conventional television or computer monitor including a liquid crystal display LCD or a light emitting diode LED display . In some cases the screen can be a large screen physically integrated into the digital signage device e.g. such as found in an information kiosk or a wall mounted device . In other cases the digital signage device can be a mobile device having an integrated screen e.g. such as a tethered mobile tablet device in a store . As would be readily apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art such a mobile device can include input devices such as buttons and an integrated camera. The camera can be any device configured to detect light and form an image such as a video camera or a webcam for example. The screen can include any electronic visual display device e.g. a conventional television or computer monitor including a liquid crystal display LCD or a light emitting diode LED display .

By way of example the digital signage device can be a tablet device e.g. iPad from Apple Inc. a device running an Android operating system Microsoft Surface device etc. or other suitable mobile computing device. That is the digital signage device can be a mobile computing device operating one of a variety of mobile operating systems and platforms such as the iOS operating system OS developed by Apple Inc. the Android platform from Google Inc. a Microsoft Windows OS and similar operating systems providing wireless communications content display and image capture capabilities.

By way of further example the digital signage device can include a personal computer or other suitable computing device such as a desktop device. As will be appreciated in view of this disclosure the digital signage device does not necessarily need to be mobile by design however if the digital signage device is mobile the screen may be physically integrated into the digital signage device instead of being a dedicated separate display as shown in the non limiting example of . Alternatively as shown in the example of the digital signage device can be a device where the screen and camera are physically integrated into the device. It will be understood that the functions of the computing devices variously described in this disclosure can be performed on and by any number of computing devices depending on the particular application of the system. For instance one or more digital signage devices can each include respective browsers screens and cameras. The digital signage devices can each include their own web browser or another application suitable for retrieving processing displaying and interacting with content provisioned by an asset modeler a content management tool a website server or any combination of these or other servers. Data representing the content can be stored in a content repository accessible by the digital signage device. Such a content repository can be implemented using one or more databases or other storage devices accessible by the digital signage device.

Content stored in the content repository can be uniquely identified by an address metadata filename version identifier or other identifying information. Non limiting examples of such identifying information include a version number a serial number a document file name location e.g. a URL a numeric value an access code a text string instructions that can be executed by a processor e.g. retrieve content x from database y or any other data usable to identify and retrieve content such as campaign assets product images textual product information color settings and product models.

The timeline begins at time when an image of a person is captured. As described above with reference to the image can be captured by a camera of a digital signage device at time when the person stops or pauses near camera .

After the image of the person is captured at time shapes of apparel or clothing items worn by the person are detected. As shown in at time masks can be created for areas of the captured image that correspond to two items of clothing worn by the person. Then at time colors present in the mask areas are analyzed. In the example of RGB color values for the two items of clothing are calculated. In alternative or additional embodiments at time a median color value can be determined for each mask area by performing a pixel by pixel color analysis. This median color value can be a dominant color present in a clothing item. Next at time an asset is presented to the person. In the example of the asset is an image of a shoe product whose color scheme has been selected based on the colors present in the person s clothing items. For instance the asset displayed at time has colors that are deemed compatible with the colors of the person s clothing. Decisions as to color compatibility between color schemes and clothing item colors can be made a priori by a marketer. Such decisions may be based in part on subjective criteria e.g. avoiding color combinations that clash with each other and selecting colors that are available for the materials that a product is made from . For example a color palette for a product may be limited based on what materials e.g. fabrics metals plastics the product being promoted is made out of.

In this way timeline represents a sequence for displaying an adapted asset that includes a clothing product image. In particular timeline culminates in presenting at time an asset that is an image of a shoe product that is shown to a given shopper whose image was captured at time . In use the digital signage device used for timeline can be any computing device configured to capture an image of a visitor connect to a website and receive a product image with a color scheme adapted to what the customer is wearing. The digital signage device can be configured to display the product image on its screen such as screen in . In one non limiting example the digital signage device is an in store computing device with a large integrated screen sufficiently large to present a life sized display of the visitor and or a life sized display of a product being promoted.

In timeline an in store digital signage device can be configured to present video content corresponding to a product image at a particular frame rate. Most standard display screens have a frame rate of 60 frames per second. However an appropriate function provided by the digital signage device and its operating environment can be used to manipulate the rendering in a single frame. For example in a browser environment this can usually be achieved by using the requestAnimationFrame method to tell the browser that a video player application wishes to perform an animation and request that the browser call a function to update the animation e.g. a succession of frames . An example succession of frames can include the product image shown at time in . Additionally the digital signage device can be configured to receive the adapted video content at any point during the display of video frames. The adapted video content can be received from an asset modeler. In accordance with embodiments the adapted video content shown at time includes frames with product image where the product image has a color scheme determined to compliment colors of clothing items worn by the customer where the clothing item colors were detected at time . In this way the frames of video content with product image displayed on a digital signage device at time will be color compatible with the clothing items worn by the visitor.

The method starts at by detecting a person who has stopped to look at a screen. As shown in block can comprise detecting with a camera a shopper who is at an in store display screen of a digital signage device. The digital signage device can be a specialized computing device configured to retrieve or receive adapted content from asset modeler of . The person can be a shopper who pauses in front of camera of the digital signage device of .

Next at the method further includes receiving an image of a person. This can be achieved in some embodiments by capturing an image of a shopper using a camera associated with a screen of a digital signage device or other suitable techniques. The image can be a video frame of a store customer captured by a webcam or other suitable video camera.

The method continues at by detecting clothes shapes in the received image and applying a mask. This can include in some embodiments detecting shapes of apparel items worn by a shopper who is viewing the screen of an in store digital signage device. For example when the shopper pauses in front of a camera and the camera captures an image of the shopper block can include analyzing the captured image to detect that the shopper is wearing a t shirt and a skirt. In block masking is done on the frame. At block a mask can be created by using a cut of the frame where a clothing item e.g. a t shirt is positioned in the frame. In one example HTML5 camera technology can be used by the device to draw the image with the mask into the camera. This drawing is done in the background. That is the masked image is not depicted on the screen for the shopper to view. In block the masked image has the position of the clothing item cut out of the original video frame image of the shopper.

Then at each detected found shape can be analyzed to create a simple statistical median of colors of the item. As shown in block can include producing regular red green blue RGB color values for each clothing item. When the shapes are detected from a video frame block can include using assistive clothing pattern recognition to find simple clothing patterns in the video frame. Examples of such clothing patterns include a t shirt pants a blouse shorts and a skirt. The clothing pattern recognition detects shapes of clothing items worn by the shopper and then compares those shapes to pre defined shapes. For example regardless of the shopper s gender or size a t shirt worn by the shopper will have a similar shape and can be identified as a t shirt based on its shape. Block can include determining average or dominant colors of the shopper s clothing items by going pixel by pixel through a masked area corresponding to each detected clothing item and calculating the average color or the statistical median of the pixels making up the clothing item. Alternatively a median color or dominant can be determined instead of the average. This may be useful in cases where the shopper s clothing items are multicolored or patterned. The color analysis performed in block can also determine an average color of a top e.g. a shirt or blouse worn by the shopper and an average color of a bottom e.g. pants shorts or a skirt worn by the shopper.

In block the mask created at block can be used to determine colors present within the mask area. For instance in block an average color can be determined that is an average or median color of the whole clothing item e.g. the entire t shirt . In an additional or alternative embodiments block can comprise determining a dominant color within the mask area or determining if the top of the shopper s t shirt area is different from the bottom color. At block the mask can be used many different ways in order to determine colors present within the mask area e.g. a dominant color an average color and statistical median colors of multiple clothing items .

After the detected clothing item shapes are analyzed and their colors are determined control is passed to block where content with color schemes that compliment what the shopper is wearing are determined. Based on the average or dominant colors determined in block block can identify a color matched image of a complimentary product to be presented on the screen. Complimentary products and compatible color schemes can be selected by a marketer ahead of time. For instance a marketer can use the marketer user interfaces shown in to define a campaign based on shoppers clothes. As discussed below with reference to the marketer interface enables the marketer to select products with certain color schemes that are to be presented to a shopper wearing clothes having identified colors. With the example of a shoe product a default color of red can be selected and when a shopper stops in front of the screen and the device determines that the person is wearing a blue t shirt and white pants then the device can decide based upon determining that the t shirt is blue to try to find a matching or complimentary blue color for the shoe. In addition to the t shirt the color matching decision in block for a shoe product e.g. a shoe can be further based on a calculated average color of pants or a skirt the shopper is wearing.

Next at results are presented. As shown block can include displaying results to a person on an in store screen. At block the adapted content can be displayed on a digital signage device s screen such as screen of . In this way the shopper can be presented with an image of a product that is color matched to be coordinated with what the shopper is currently wearing. For example an image of a shoe having a color scheme that compliments the customer s t shirt can be presented on the screen in block . At block a digital signage device may present a 3D model of a product such as a shoe where the product has its color adapted or changed color e.g. from a default color of red to an adapted color of blue based on what colors the customer is wearing. The shopper can then interact with the screen to manipulate the image e.g. rotate and or zoom the image change the product color s and simulate selection of product accessories . The shopper can also use the device to determine in store availability of the product having the selected color scheme.

The method can repeat one or more of blocks to continue to detect additional shoppers and or receive additional shopper images e.g. after the shopper tries on different clothing items in the store which in turn cause different product images having different color schemes to be presented. For example the method may be used to present 3D product models and product images as web content in response to the shopper trying on or holding up different clothing items that are captured by the camera. That is method can be used to adapt content to a targeted shopper as the shopper uses the digital signage device to display various clothing items having different color schemes.

Then at step an RGB value for a second clothing item worn by the shopper is calculated. As shown the second clothing item is a top e.g. a white shirt or blouse worn by the customer. As there are multiple colors present in the top the RGB value for the second clothing item represents a median or dominant color of the top.

Next at step the RGB color values of the white top and the blue skirt are used to decide to select a product to promote to the customer. In the non limiting example of process uses the defined campaign to determine that shoes with a blue and red color scheme or pattern should be presented to the customer. The determination is made based at least in part on the knowledge that the customer is wearing a white top and a blue bottom.

Throughout displays are shown with various icons buttons links command regions windows toolbars menus and drop down lists that are used to initiate action invoke routines define clothing items to analyze select complimentary color schemes for the clothing items search for assets select assets simulate display of selected assets or invoke other functionality. The initiated actions include but are not limited to selecting an asset to be displayed selecting compatible colors and other campaign administrative actions. For brevity only the differences occurring within the figures as compared to previous or subsequent ones of the figures are described below.

The interfaces depicted in can be used by a marketer to select content such as but not limited to product images or advertising content and adapt the images and content to targeted visitors to an environment. The example marketer UIs and can be launched in response to determining that an asset is be selected and adapted for display to a visitor to an environment.

As shown in a UI can be used to select a color scheme for a shoe product . The UI includes a menu with radio buttons to select pick an image of the product and to rotate the image of the product. UI also includes a set of slider controls that can be used to simulate different textures of the product. Example set includes sliders to simulate changes to the product s glossiness and roughness. UI also includes a color selector drop down menu that can be used to select colors for different portions of the product. In the example of the color selector drop down menu of UI has been used to select different colors for regions and of the shoe product . Different instances or versions of the product can be selected and targeted for display at a selected location within an environment. In the examples of the location can be an area e.g. a sporting goods section of a store. UI can be used to preview how a selected product image or model can be displayed on various digital signage devices that are associated with a location e.g. a department or show room of a store . As shown in UI can be used to preview and manipulate a 3D product model e.g. a 3D model of shoe product produced by asset modeler .

The example UI of includes drop down menus and buttons and that a marketer can use to select items for a campaign when composing the campaign. The UI can be used to define elements to analyze from a captured image of a shopper. As shown in the marketer can use menu to select a t shirt element from list that includes clothing items that can be analyzed. In the example of color adaption settings for campaign content can be selected via menu where colors for a clothing item are selected from list . As shown in the marketer has used menu to indicate a selected color of blue. The marketer UI enables a marketer user to add other elements to be analyzed by selecting add element menu to present other elements e.g. other clothing or apparel items . If the marketer wishes to cancel settings or selections the cancel button can be selected. After the marketer defines elements to analyze next button can be selected to proceed to UI shown in .

UI can be used to compose a campaign by defining a product and color scheme to advertise or promote. As shown in menu of UI can be used to select one or more of products and based on a given color combination e.g. white top and blue bottom skirt . Slider can be used to navigate between images of products and . Menu can be used to select a color scheme for a selected product image. As shown a list of available color schemes is presented in UI . The back button can be used to return to UI and the create button can be used to create a campaign based on selections made in UIs and .

By using UIs and adaption settings can be selected for content to be presented at a digital signage device along with data indicating how the content should be adapted for a target visitor e.g. based on the colors of clothes a shopper at a digital signage device is wearing . Within UI an administrator can find content using asset search menu select image and drag and drop the selected image to target devices A B and or at location .

By using UIs and in conjunction with content management tool and asset modeler embodiments enable a marketer to define a product to be included in a campaign select color schemes complimenting clothing items having certain colors and simulate display of the product. These embodiments improve efficiency of system by not requiring use of a dedicated server or other dedicated hardware to compose a campaign. For instance by using interfaces and to pre define pairings of compatible colors between clothing items and products the digital signage device does not have to determine compatible or complimentary color schemes.

Although example embodiments have been described in terms of apparatuses systems services and methods it is contemplated that certain functionality described herein may be implemented in software on microprocessors such as a microprocessor chip included in computing devices such as the computer system illustrated in . In various embodiments one or more of the functions of the various components may be implemented in software that controls a computing device such as computer system which is described below with reference to .

To implement the various features and functions described above some or all elements of the devices e.g. digital signage device and servers e.g. a server used to implement content management tool and asset modeler may be implemented using elements of the computer system of . More particularly illustrates an example computer system for implementing the techniques in accordance with the present disclosure.

Aspects of the present invention shown in or any part s or function s thereof may be implemented using hardware software modules firmware tangible computer readable media having logic or instructions stored thereon or a combination thereof and may be implemented in one or more computer systems or other processing systems.

If programmable logic is used such logic may execute on a commercially available processing platform or a special purpose device. One of ordinary skill in the art may appreciate that embodiments of the disclosed subject matter can be practiced with various computer system configurations including multi core multiprocessor systems minicomputers mainframe computers computers linked or clustered with distributed functions as well as pervasive or miniature computers that may be embedded into virtually any device.

For instance at least one processor device and a memory may be used to implement the above described embodiments. A processor device may be a single processor a plurality of processors or combinations thereof. Processor devices may have one or more processor cores. 

Various embodiments of the invention are described in terms of this example computer system . After reading this description it will become apparent to a person skilled in the relevant art how to implement the invention using other computer systems and or computer architectures. Although operations may be described as a sequential process some of the operations may in fact be performed in parallel concurrently and or in a distributed environment and with program code stored locally or remotely for access by single or multi processor machines. In addition in some embodiments the order of operations may be rearranged without departing from the spirit of the disclosed subject matter.

Processor device may be a special purpose processor device. As will be appreciated by persons skilled in the relevant art processor device may also be a single processor in a multi core multiprocessor system such system operating alone or in a cluster of computing devices operating in a cluster or server farm. Processor device is connected to a communication infrastructure for example a bus message queue network or multi core message passing scheme. In certain embodiments a processor of one or more of the computing devices and servers described above with reference to can be embodied as the processor device shown in .

Computer system also includes a main memory for example random access memory RAM and may also include a secondary memory . Secondary memory may include for example a hard disk drive removable storage drive . Removable storage drive may comprise a floppy disk drive a magnetic tape drive an optical disk drive a flash memory or the like. In non limiting embodiments one or more of the memories of digital signage devices and servers discussed above with reference to can be embodied as the main memory shown in .

The removable storage drive reads from and or writes to a removable storage unit in a well known manner. Removable storage unit may comprise a floppy disk magnetic tape optical disk etc. which is read by and written to by removable storage drive . As will be appreciated by persons skilled in the relevant art removable storage unit includes a non transitory computer readable storage medium having stored therein computer software and or data.

In alternative implementations secondary memory may include other similar means for allowing computer programs or other instructions to be loaded into computer system . Such means may include for example a removable storage unit and an interface . Examples of such means may include a program cartridge and cartridge interface such as that found in video game devices a removable memory chip such as an EPROM or EEPROM and associated socket and other removable storage units and interfaces which allow software and data to be transferred from the removable storage unit to computer system .

Computer system may also include a communications interface . Communications interface allows software and data to be transferred between computer system and external devices. Communications interface may include a modem a network interface such as an Ethernet card a communications port a PCMCIA slot and card or the like. Software and data transferred via communications interface may be in the form of signals which may be electronic electromagnetic optical or other signals capable of being received by communications interface . These signals may be provided to communications interface via a communications path . Communications path carries signals and may be implemented using wire or cable fiber optics a phone line a cellular phone link an RF link or other communications channels.

As used herein the terms computer readable medium and non transitory computer readable medium are used to generally refer to media such as memories such as main memory and secondary memory which can be memory semiconductors e.g. DRAMs etc. . Computer readable medium and non transitory computer readable medium can also refer to removable storage unit removable storage unit and a hard disk installed in hard disk drive . Signals carried over communications path can also embody the logic described herein. These computer program products are means for providing software to computer system .

Computer programs also called computer control logic are stored in main memory and or secondary memory . Computer programs may also be received via communications interface . Such computer programs when executed enable computer system to implement the present invention as discussed herein. In particular the computer programs when executed enable processor device to implement the processes of the present invention such as the steps in the methods illustrated by the flowchart of discussed above. Accordingly such computer programs represent controllers of the computer system . Where the invention is implemented using software the software may be stored in a computer program product and loaded into computer system using removable storage drive interface and hard disk drive or communications interface .

In an embodiment display screens of used to display adapted content and the marketer user interfaces shown in may be a computer display shown in . The computer display of computer system can be implemented as a touch sensitive display i.e. a touch screen . The computer display can connect to communications infrastructure via display interface to display electronic content such as the results of method . For example the computer display can be an in store display e.g. a large in store screen used to display targeted content such as a tailored image of a product to be promoted or advertised. Also for example computer display can be used to display the marketer UIs and shown in respectively. As shown in computer system can also include an input device and a camera . In an embodiment camera can be a camera associated with display . For instance camera can be a camera integrated with display or mounted on top of display . Camera can be a webcam or any other suitable video camera capable of capturing video frames of people viewing display .

In the non limiting example shown in secondary memory includes a content management tool and an asset modeler . Content management tool and asset modeler can be implemented as computer programs stored in secondary memory .

According to one example content management tool can be a tool included in a content management system such as for example Adobe Experience Manager. By using content management tool a marketer can manage an advertising campaign. Content management tool can be used to select and modify campaign content and can include a marketer interface such as the example interfaces shown in discussed above.

Asset modeler can be a tool that creates a 3D model of a product of interest e.g. a shoe . Asset modeler can create a model that depicts the product s textures and colors that have been assigned to different parts of the product. Asset modeler can be implemented using the Adobe Scene7 dynamic media platform. Asset modeler can use information obtained from camera and content management tool to change the color or the texture of the model. Asset modeler can produce a 3D product model as shown in the example of discussed above.

Embodiments of the invention also may be directed to computer program products comprising software stored on any computer useable medium. Such software when executed in one or more data processing device causes a data processing device s to operate as described herein. Embodiments of the invention employ any computer useable or readable medium. Examples of computer useable mediums include but are not limited to primary storage devices e.g. any type of random access memory secondary storage devices e.g. hard drives floppy disks CD ROMS ZIP disks tapes magnetic storage devices and optical storage devices MEMS nanotechnological storage device etc. and communication mediums e.g. wired and wireless communications networks local area networks wide area networks intranets etc. .

While the present subject matter has been described in detail with respect to specific embodiments thereof it will be appreciated that those skilled in the art upon attaining an understanding of the foregoing may readily produce alterations to variations of and equivalents to such embodiments. Accordingly it should be understood that the present disclosure has been presented for purposes of example rather than limitation and does not preclude inclusion of such modifications variations and or additions to the present subject matter as would be readily apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art. Indeed the methods and systems described herein may be embodied in a variety of other forms furthermore various omissions substitutions and changes in the form of the methods and systems described herein may be made without departing from the spirit of the present disclosure. The accompanying claims and their equivalents are intended to cover such forms or modifications as would fall within the scope and spirit of the present disclosure.

Unless specifically stated otherwise it is appreciated that throughout this specification discussions utilizing terms such as processing computing calculating determining and identifying or the like refer to actions or processes of a computing device such as one or more computers or a similar electronic computing device or devices that manipulate or transform data represented as physical electronic or magnetic quantities within memories registers or other information storage devices transmission devices or display devices of the computing platform.

The system or systems discussed herein are not limited to any particular hardware architecture or configuration. A computing device can include any suitable arrangement of components that provide a result conditioned on one or more inputs. Suitable computing devices include multipurpose microprocessor based computer systems accessing stored software that programs or configures the computing system from a general purpose computing apparatus to a specialized computing apparatus implementing one or more embodiments of the present subject matter. Any suitable programming scripting or other type of language or combinations of languages may be used to implement the teachings contained herein in software to be used in programming or configuring a computing device.

Embodiments of the methods disclosed herein may be performed in the operation of such computing devices. The order of the blocks presented in the examples above can be varied for example blocks can be re ordered combined and or broken into sub blocks. Certain blocks or processes can be performed in parallel.

Conditional language used herein such as among others can could might may e.g. and the like unless specifically stated otherwise or otherwise understood within the context as used is generally intended to convey that certain examples include while other examples do not include certain features elements and or steps. Thus such conditional language is not generally intended to imply that features elements and or steps are in any way required for one or more examples or that one or more examples necessarily include logic for deciding with or without author input or prompting whether these features elements and or steps are included or are to be performed in any particular example.

The terms comprising including having and the like are synonymous and are used inclusively in an open ended fashion and do not exclude additional elements features acts operations and so forth. Also the term or is used in its inclusive sense and not in its exclusive sense so that when used for example to connect a list of elements the term or means one some or all of the elements in the list. The use of adapted to or configured to herein is meant as open and inclusive language that does not foreclose devices adapted to or configured to perform additional tasks or steps. Additionally the use of based on is meant to be open and inclusive in that a process step calculation or other action based on one or more recited conditions or values may in practice be based on additional conditions or values beyond those recited. Similarly the use of based at least in part on is meant to be open and inclusive in that a process step calculation or other action based at least in part on one or more recited conditions or values may in practice be based on additional conditions or values beyond those recited. Headings lists and numbering included herein are for ease of explanation only and are not meant to be limiting.

The various features and processes described above may be used independently of one another or may be combined in various ways. All possible combinations and sub combinations are intended to fall within the scope of the present disclosure. In addition certain method or process blocks may be omitted in some implementations. The methods and processes described herein are also not limited to any particular sequence and the blocks or states relating thereto can be performed in other sequences that are appropriate. For example described blocks or states may be performed in an order other than that specifically disclosed or multiple blocks or states may be combined in a single block or state. The example blocks or states may be performed in serial in parallel or in some other manner. Blocks or states may be added to or removed from the disclosed examples. Similarly the example systems and components described herein may be configured differently than described. For example elements may be added to removed from or rearranged compared to the disclosed examples.

