---

title: Techniques for sharing image data remotely
abstract: Techniques are disclosed for sharing image data in a collaborative environment. In a network based server situated in an Internet Protocol (IP) based packet data network, a request may be received for a session ID from an image capture requesting device via a networked connection. The network based server may return a session ID to the image capture requesting device. The network based server may then receive image data indicative of a whiteboard and including marked corners. The image data may further comprise metadata including the session ID. The network based server may then process the received image, the processing including a rasterization process and a vectorization process. The network based server may then create a snapshot comprising the received image data, the rasterized image data, the vectorized image data, and the metadata. The network based server may then receive an access request for a snapshot associated with a session ID from a media consumption requesting device via a networked connection and provide access to the snapshot to the media consumption requesting device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09438858&OS=09438858&RS=09438858
owner: Bandwidth.com, Inc.
number: 09438858
owner_city: Raleigh
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150813
---
Examples described herein are generally related to techniques for remotely sharing images in near real time as well as an archive service.

In many work environments collaboration is a key element. Often however collaborators are not all physically located in the same place at the same time. Many times telephone or video conference calls are held between or among multiple people in multiple places. In addition the information shared may sometimes take the form of text drawings or other content spontaneously created during the meeting on for instance a whiteboard. For example one person may take notes on a whiteboard type surface based on the conversation among the participants. If on a conference call these notes may only be visible to those in the room where the whiteboard is located. For video conferences the notes may not be visible unless the video camera is trained on the whiteboard itself rather than the participants as is customary. Even if most of the participants can see the whiteboard there is still the issue of memorializing the content generated during the conference. Once the conference is over and the room is vacated the whiteboard may be erased by the next group to use the room.

There are specialized whiteboards that can be directly coupled with computer systems. Some specialized whiteboards may be able to track and transcribe writing and images made to the whiteboard via touch sensitive technologies and complex computer circuitry and programming. Such whiteboards are extremely costly as compared to ordinary whiteboards having no associated electronics.

What is needed is an inexpensive technique to capture disseminate and archive content such as text and images made to a whiteboard during a conference or collaborative type setting that spans multiple locations.

The embodiments described herein disclose systems and methods for capturing processing disseminating and archiving image data associated with markings on whiteboards made during a collaborative meeting. The systems and methods of the invention may be embodied in and performed by image capture devices communication devices network based computer servers and other devices and software instructions executed by some or all of such devices as will be explained in detail below. The different types of networks contemplated herein include for example Internet Protocol IP based cellular data networks and IP based data networks such as the Internet wide area networks WANs local area networks LANs and combinations thereof including wireless e.g. 802.11 and wireline e.g. Ethernet .

As used herein the term collaborative session is meant to generally indicate a group of people that may be spread across multiple locations communicating together using audio and or video communication systems.

The term whiteboard is used to indicate a surface capable of being written upon using chalk or markers of some kind wherein the whiteboard has no electrical connectivity with any other device. In its most general sense a whiteboard is blank surface of any color that can accept markings from one of a variety of marking devices. For purposes of the embodiments described herein the whiteboard may be marked with spots or the like that if connected typically form the perimeter of a rectangle with an area enclosed therein. Other shapes perimeters and areas besides a rectangle may be formed by imaginary lines connecting the spots.

The term image capture device is used to indicate a device capable of taking pictures that is also capable of transmitting the images of those pictures over a computer communication network to a network based server located in a computer network. An image capture device may include hardware and software that enable it to communicate over a variety of network interfaces including the one or more of a cellular IP data network an Ethernet network and an 802.11 WiFi network. An image capture device may include but is not limited to a camera enabled smartphone a digital camera with network connectivity a camera and network enabled tablet computer and a camera and network enable personal computer.

The term media consumption device is used to indicate any device that includes network connectivity that allows it to communicate with a network based server containing images or links to images uploaded by an image capture device and processed by the network based server for purposes of at a minimum downloading and viewing images. A media consumption device may include hardware and software that enable it to communicate over a variety of network interfaces including the one or more of a cellular IP data network an Ethernet network and an 802.11 WiFi network. A media consumption device may include but is not limited to a smartphone a network enabled tablet computer a network enabled desktop or personal computer and a network enabled display device such as for instance a smart television.

In an example embodiment a session with a network based server may be initiated by an image capture device . Initiating a session may comprise sending a request to the network based server identifying an image capture device to be used for the session. The device initiating the session need not be the image capture device though it could be. All that is needed is a communication to the network based server identifying the image capture device so that a session ID token may be sent to the image capture device . The image capture device may then embed the session ID information into each image it uploads to the network based server . The network based server may then associate the uploaded images with the appropriate session. The session ID along with any other descriptive information about the session may be stored by the network based server and made available to any media consumption devices that have been granted access to the network based server .

A whiteboard may include calibration markers that define a perimeter and area within which images text and the like are considered relevant. An image capture device may be oriented to include the four corners of the whiteboard as calibration markers within its field of view. The image capture device may then snap a picture of the whiteboard containing the relevant data e.g. text images etc. . The picture along with the session ID and any other metadata may then be uploaded over any one of the aforementioned network connectivity mechanisms to the network based server . Pictures may be snapped on an as needed basis or may be snapped automatically on a periodic basis.

The network based server receives each uploaded image and initially parses the metadata for a session ID. The image may then be stored in an area of memory reserved for that session ID. Image processing on the received image may also take place. Image processing may result in the creation of a snapshot. There may be two separate image processing steps designed to make consumption of an image optimized for a given media consumption device . A snapshot may be comprised of three images and metadata. The images may include the originally uploaded image a rasterized version of the originally uploaded image and a vectorized version of the rasterized image. Thus the two image processing steps performed are rasterization and vectorization both of which are more fully described below. Once the processing steps have been completed the snapshot has been created and the images are ready to be consumed by a media consumption device .

To retrieve or consume the images associated with a particular session ID the network based server may present as a web page a list of URL hyperlinks containing session IDs and descriptions of the session. A media consumption device may navigate to such a page and select the URL hyperlink of interest. Upon loading the page associated with the hyperlink the media consumption device may have on its display a series of thumbnail images associated with the session ID. The number of thumbnail images depends on the number of images uploaded to the network based server with that particular session ID. Moreover each thumbnail image may show the vectorized version of the image as it may be optimized for thumbnail viewing. However the thumbnail image may be indicative of the snapshot meaning that the thumbnail image may also include access to the original image the rasterized image the vectorized image and the metadata for that image. The user via the media consumption device may then select which image from the snapshot to download and display. In another embodiment the downloaded image s may be stored locally on the media consumption device .

In certain embodiments the cellular towers are a part of cellular networks or portions of cellular networks that may be based on a variety of IP data protocols such as but not limited to Global System for Mobile Communications GSM Code Division Multiple Access CDMA General Packet Radio Service GPRS Enhanced Data for GSM Evolution EDGE Evolution Data Optimized EV DO High Speed Packet Data HSPD High Speed Downlink Packet Access HSPDA Long Term Evolution LTE Voice over Long Term Evolution VoLTE Wideband Code Division Multiple Access WCDMA Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS or High Rate Packet Data HRPD and or any other cellular network standards.

Included herein is a set of flow charts and message diagrams representative of exemplary methodologies for performing novel aspects of the disclosed architecture. While for purposes of simplicity of explanation the one or more methodologies shown herein for example in the form of a flow chart or flow diagram are shown and described as a series of acts it is to be understood and appreciated that the methodologies are not limited by the order of acts as some acts may in accordance therewith occur in a different order and or concurrently with other acts from that shown and described herein. For example those skilled in the art will understand and appreciate that a methodology could alternatively be represented as a series of interrelated states or events such as in a state diagram. Moreover not all acts illustrated in a methodology may be required for a novel implementation.

Following rasterization the vector image processing engine of network based server may then process an image to create a vectorized version of the image. This may include scaling the rasterized image to fit a multitude of displays having different screen sizes. The vectorized version of the image is also stored . The vectorized image is thus set up for media consumption devices of different sizes and types e.g. smartphones tablets laptop PCs desktop PCs televisions etc. where the image representation will be properly scaled for the consuming device. At this point there are three 3 associated images the original uploaded image the rasterized image and the vectorized image. Each image and the associated metadata may then be organized into a snapshot.

A media consumption device may then request snapshots for a particular session ID. The network based server may then return a list of snapshots corresponding to the session ID. The media consumption device may then request a specific image from one of the snapshots to which the network based server may reply by returning the actual image or a link to the actual image . The default requested and returned image for a board may be the vectorized image since it is scaled to display on the media consumption device .

In one embodiment the list of snapshots may also take the form of a series of URL type links such that when the media consumption device selects or clicks on a link the associated image is retrieved and displayed on the media consumption device . The media consumption device may also be able to save the image to local external or network accessible memory apart from the network based server .

In another embodiment the list of snapshots may also take the form of a series of thumbnail images for each session ID. Each thumbnail image may be encoded with a URL type location such that when the media consumption device selects or clicks on a thumbnail the associated image is retrieved and displayed on the media consumption device . The media consumption device may also be able to save the image to local external or network accessible memory apart from the network based server .

In another embodiment the snapshots may be archived according to their session ID and session ID descriptor for future use and access. This feature addresses the Do Not Erase phenomenon that occurs when a whiteboard has been drawn upon in a meeting and the participants wish to preserve the information beyond the meeting.

The process may begin at block when an image capture device or a proxy device initiates a session with the network based server . The image capture device or proxy device may log in to the network based server . The network based server may be a web based server that presents a web page when accessed via a proxy device such as a computer. Or the network based server may be accessed by an application executing on the image capture device in which case accessing the application may allow the user to select an option to initiate a session. For instance the image capture device may be a smartphone. The overall whiteboard imaging system may be comprised of a software application executing on the image capture devices and media consumption devices . In some instances an image capture device and a media consumption device may be one and the same. In such instances a single software application may be configured to allow a user to select an imaging mode for uploading images to the network based server and a consuming mode for retrieving specific images from the network based server . Additionally the network based server includes software for communicating with the image capture devices and the media consumption devices . The network based server may be configured to offer a cloud or network based service that receives processes and makes images available to media consumption devices .

At block the network based server may respond to the initiate session request by returning a session ID to the requesting image capture device . The session ID may then be embedded as metadata into data exchanges with the network based server . At block the image capture device may capture an image of a whiteboard . The whiteboard may have been written upon by participants in a meeting. The whiteboard may be pre marked in each corner with a calibration marker that may comprise circles icons or the like the collection of these calibration markers defining a perimeter and an area e.g. a rectangle within which relevant data may be captured.

At block the image capture device may upload the captured image to the network based server including in the metadata at a minimum the session ID returned in block . At block the network based server may store the uploaded image and metadata in a data storage component . The uploaded image may be referred to as the original image and may be in one of a variety of known file formats. At block the network based server may initiate a rasterization process on the original image. The rasterization process may include perspective corrections configured to remove noise and smooth the image find an edgemap locate shapes and predict corners of those shapes create a transformation matrix using the predicted corners and perform a matrix multiplication on the original image to adjust the perspective. The rasterized version of the original image may then be stored as a new file such as for instance a compressed JPEG file.

At block the rasterized version of the original image may undergo a vectorization process. The compressed rasterized JPEG file or other file format may be converted to an uncompressed bitmap image. The bitmap image may then be converted to a vector using for instance a polygon based tracing algorithm performing path decomposition turn policies despeckling polygon generation and penalty assignments and smoothing and corner analysis. The vectorization process may result in a scalable vector graphic file format that may be suitable for rendering on displays of different sizes.

It should be noted that the rasterization and vectorization processes described above are well known in the art and may be performed on a variety of image file formats including many not specifically described in the example above.

Up to this point images have been captured by image capture devices and uploaded processed and stored by the network based server . The remainder of the logic flow addresses the network based server providing access to the images to media consumption devices . At block the network based server may receive a request for a snapshot associated with a specific session ID. The request may take the form of selecting a session ID and associated description from a web based interface such as a web page from a media consumption device such as a computer or a tablet. In another embodiment the media consumption device may be a smartphone or a tablet running a specific application formatted for the smartphone or tablet. The application may present via a user interface a list of Session IDs with associated descriptors. For example one element on the list may appear as Session ID 1003 Weekly Sales Meeting Jul. 31 2015 . Other elements of the list may be similarly descriptive allowing a user to easily determine which session ID she is looking for. By clicking or selecting the link or icon for that session ID a message or request is sent to the network based server requesting access to the snapshots for that session ID.

At block the network based server may respond by sending a list of snapshots associated with the requested session ID. This may be accomplished by presenting on the web page or via the application another series of links or icons representing each snapshot for that session ID. For instance the session ID may include six 6 snapshots. A link or icon for each one of the snapshots may be returned to the media consumption device via a web page or application depending on the media consumption device . The snapshots themselves may be identifiable by a time stamp a title a file name and or other metadata. At block a user may request a specific image from one of the snapshots by selecting or clicking on the link or icon. Such an action may be considered a request to the network based server . As previously described the snapshot may include the original image the rasterized image and the vectorized image. When making an image selection from a snapshot the default image may be the vectorized image as it may be most suitable for rendering on a given display since it has undergone perspective processing and scaling. At block the network based server may provide a link to the requested image may render the image directly on the media consumption device and or may download the image file to the media consumption device for local rendering and storage.

The network based server may permanently archive the snapshots associated with a session ID allowing future access to whiteboard images long after the whiteboard itself has been erased. Moreover the techniques described above do not require a whiteboard to be specially constructed to include computer processor s memory networking equipment RF chips etc. The techniques described herein take advantage of the ubiquity of smartphone cameras or other image capture devices and smartphone RF networking to provide images on demand to a cloud based network server . The network based server is then responsible for cataloguing processing and storing the images for instantaneous or future access on a variety of media consumption devices .

Some examples may be described using the expression in one example or an example along with their derivatives. These terms mean that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the example is included in at least one example. The appearances of the phrase in one example in various places in the specification are not necessarily all referring to the same example.

Some examples may be described using the expression coupled connected or capable of being coupled along with their derivatives. These terms are not necessarily intended as synonyms for each other. For example descriptions using the terms connected and or coupled may indicate that two or more elements are in direct physical or electrical contact with each other. The term coupled however may also mean that two or more elements are not in direct contact with each other but yet still co operate or interact with each other.

It is emphasized that the Abstract of the Disclosure is provided to comply with 37 C.F.R. Section 1.72 b requiring an abstract that will allow the reader to quickly ascertain the nature of the technical disclosure. It is submitted with the understanding that it will not be used to interpret or limit the scope or meaning of the claims. In addition in the foregoing Detailed Description it can be seen that various features are grouped together in a single example for the purpose of streamlining the disclosure. This method of disclosure is not to be interpreted as reflecting an intention that the claimed examples require more features than are expressly recited in each claim. Rather as the following claims reflect inventive subject matter lies in less than all features of a single disclosed example. Thus the following claims are hereby incorporated into the Detailed Description with each claim standing on its own as a separate example. In the appended claims the terms including and in which are used as the plain English equivalents of the respective terms comprising and wherein respectively. Moreover the terms first second third and so forth are used merely as labels and are not intended to impose numerical requirements on their objects.

