---

title: Switch server system interoperable with mobile devices providing secure communications
abstract: Methods and systems for conducting a secure transaction over a network using one or more gateway servers. The methods include receiving a request from a consumer, sending the request to a merchant, and receiving, from the merchant, a payment order associated with the request. The payment order is received via a merchant programmable user interface. The methods also include confirming the payment order to transform the payment order to a confirmed payment order, sending the confirmed payment order to a user, and receiving, from the user, a payment authorization associated with the confirmed payment order, and the payment authorization being received via a consumer programmable user interface. The payment authorization from the user includes a secure, encrypted, Internet Protocol (IP) message using encryption hashed with public and private key management. The methods also include performing a transaction in accordance with the payment authorization.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09189778&OS=09189778&RS=09189778
owner: Isys US, Inc.
number: 09189778
owner_city: Corona del Mar
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150527
---
This application claims priority to co pending U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 62 004 091 filed May 28 2014 which is entirely incorporated herein by reference for all purposes.

The present invention relates to payments. In particular the present technology provides a switch server system interoperable with mobile devices for providing secure communications.

The use of currency cash has been rapidly decreasing as consumers and merchants rely increasingly on credit and debit accounts. Further mobile phones tablets and or laptops are increasingly prevalent. Mobile phones have been used for payments though typically they require special chips for instance Near Field Communication NFC chips. Merchants are using mobile devices to accept payments though likewise these systems require special hardware for instance card readers.

Some embodiments of the present technology include a computer implemented method for conducting a secure transaction over a network using one or more gateway servers. Embodiments of the method include receiving a request from a consumer sending the request to a merchant and receiving from the merchant a payment order associated with the request. The payment order is received via a merchant programmable user interface. Embodiments of the method also include confirming the payment order to transform the payment order to a confirmed payment order sending the confirmed payment order to a user and receiving from the user a payment authorization associated with the confirmed payment order and the payment authorization is received via a consumer programmable user interface. The payment authorization from the user includes a secure encrypted Internet Protocol IP message using encryption hashed with public and private key management. Embodiments of the method also include performing a transaction in accordance with the payment authorization.

Various embodiments of the method include sending a registration message to the merchant receiving from the merchant identifying information associated with the merchant in response to the registration message and validating the identifying information. Embodiments of the method also include sending a validation message associated with the validating of the identifying information to a payment service provider PSP .

Some embodiments of the present technology include performing of the transaction in accordance with the payment authorization being associated the PSP the PSP being at least one of an internal consumer wallet account a direct bank transfer account and a third party PSP.

Various embodiments of the present technology include the PSP being an internal consumer wallet account.

Some embodiments of the present technology include performing of the transaction being in accordance with the payment authorization using a secure internal switch and being associated with the internal consumer wallet account. The internal consumer wallet account being associated with an account of the user. The account of the user being at least one of a credit account a debit account a savings account a loyalty account and a virtual currency account.

Various embodiments of the present technology include sending to the consumer the merchant and the user one or more payment confirmations associated with the performing of the transaction in accordance with the payment authorization.

Some embodiments of the present technology include the merchant programmable user interface being coupled with a mobile Points Of Sale mPOS terminal the merchant programmable user interface configured to perform at least one of registering the terminal managing the terminal and authorizing a payment from the PSP to the merchant. Embodiments of the method include the merchant programmable user interface also configured to perform at least one of preauthorizing the payment from the PSP voiding the payment from the PSP refunding the payment from the PSP and settling the payment from the PSP.

Various embodiments of the present technology include the merchant programmable user interface being configured to perform at least one of managing a profile of the merchant managing a definition of a product managing an inventory of the product managing a location of the product managing agents of the merchant and contacting a support system about the merchant.

Some embodiments of the present technology include the merchant programmable user interface being configured to perform at least one of communicating with a product catalog of the merchant communicating with an inventory system of the merchant communicating with a product information management system of the merchant and updating inventory of the merchant based on the request.

Various embodiments of the present technology include the merchant programmable user interface being configured to perform at least one of communicating with a third party product catalog communicating with a third party inventory system and communicating with a third party product information management system.

While this technology is susceptible of embodiment in many different forms there is shown in the drawings and will herein be described in detail several specific embodiments with the understanding that the present disclosure is to be considered as an exemplification of the principles of the technology and is not intended to limit the technology to the embodiments illustrated. The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting of the technology. As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms comprises comprising includes and or including when used in this specification specify the presence of stated features integers steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps operations elements components and or groups thereof. It will be understood that like or analogous elements and or components referred to herein may be identified throughout the drawings with like reference characters. It will be further understood that several of the figures are merely schematic representations of the present technology. As such some of the components may have been distorted from their actual scale for pictorial clarity.

Embodiments of the present technology provide a convenient secure cost effective and unified payment solution. The solution is designed to reduce the cost traditionally incurred by merchants facilitate easier and faster consumer acquisition by dynamically extending the payment options to consumers and merchants. The channels by which consumers and merchants can interact with Payment Orders Payit Coins Wallet and provide an IP cryptography based secure payment method works seamlessly for both card present and card not present scenarios.

In the past there have been numerous alternative solutions to card not present payment methods e.g. using e Wallets and physical agents . However there have been no major alternatives to traditional card present methods. Recently several NFC and QR based alternatives have emerged e.g. Apple Pay VISA Paywave MasterCard PayPass AMEX ExpressPay . Yet these alternatives have restrictions including that they are targeted with limited set of devices e.g. NFC enabled still rely on traditional infrastructure e.g. costly brands network and follow the same traditional flow between payment card payment application and Point of Sale Terminal NFC enabled Point of Sale Terminal.

Recently emerging solutions only work with a limited set of consumer devices e.g. phones with NFC support require sophisticated setup at the merchant side e.g. NFC Paywave certified POS terminals and still rely on the existing payment network infrastructure e.g. costly brands network . Furthermore they do not provide any unified approach for card present and card not present scenarios.

In various embodiments Payit Orders work for both card present and card not present scenarios. The solution allows to extend the payment options available to the consumer and to dynamically transform the payment scenario from a card present to a card not present scenario and vise versa.

According to various embodiments of the present technology a solution is provided by Payit Orders and the Payit Cloud Platform. A Payit Order is a signed and encrypted cryptographic payment order payload that is typically sent securely from the merchant mobile application to the Consumer mobile application through the Payit Cloud Platform namely Payit Gateway . Merchants identities are initially verified through a Know your customer KYC process which consequently allows their orders to be signed with their private keys and encrypted. A Consumer goes through a verification process after which his her e Wallet becomes associated with the mobile device e.g. EMEI and Phone Number . This allows consumer requests e.g. order acceptance request to be signed and sent securely. In various embodiments Payit Orders supports multiple use cases including electronic payments for m commerce transactions money transfers and electronic payments from 3rd party e commerce applications via Payit Checkout . In this manner the system provides a unique alternative to in store card present payments.

According to various embodiments of the present technology the following points describe the sale process. The merchant keys in the required amount and the account Id of the consumer e.g. phone number into the Payit merchant app which in turn creates a Payit order cryptogram using the merchants private key. The cryptogram is then submitted to Payit Gateway the Payit Cloud Platform . Payit Gateway decrypts the cryptogram and validates the merchant. Payit Gateway pushes a signed order to the consumer s mobile application which decrypts the order and prompts the consumer to accept it. The consumer selects the payment method he she wants to use for payment by default Payit Coins Wallet . A signed request is sent from the consumer application to the Payit Gateway which in turn validates the request and forwards it to Payit Switch for processing. The payment order is processed by Payit switch i.e. the consumer wallet is debited and the merchant wallet is credited in one atomic transaction. The result is returned to Payit Gateway. Payit Gateway sends a successful payment confirmation to the consumer and sends a successful payment confirmation to the merchant. The merchant can then submit an invoice to Payit at any later stage.

In various embodiments Payit Orders can be passed through different merchant channels be accessed through different consumer channels and eventually be routed to different payment channels. In other words it extends the number of payment methods available to the consumer and transforms the payment scenario from card present to card not present and vise versa. The following illustrates the various channels. Payit orders may be submitted to Payit Gateway from a Payit Merchant mobile application from a 3rd party e Commerce Site through Payit Checkout or from a 3rd party service provider app through APIs.

According to various embodiments of the present technology Merchants go through an acquiring and KYC process and consumers go through a verification process after which their unique identifications mobiles number email or ID are associated to their accounts. Both parties become known to Payit which allows the Payit Gateway to facilitate the entire payment process in a closed loop manner without depending on other parties banks schemes etc . The solution enables a relatively fast and easy consumer acquisition. The payment order flow is different from other solutions. The Payit order cryptogram is initiated by merchant and flows to the consumer who in turn decides to pay using the payment methods available to him. In other words the consumer is in control of the payment process and the consumer doesn t need to share any payment choice with merchant. The solution does not require sophisticated consumer devices e.g. smart phone with NFC support . It can work with basic phones using SMS. Payit Orders can be initiated and submitted through different channels e.g. merchant mobile app 3rd party e Commerce sites via Payit Checkout and through other API integrated systems. Payit Orders can be processed in different ways using smart phones basic phones and through Payit dealers in which case they can pay for an item or service even if they don t have their mobile device with them . The present technology extends a payment solution to cover whole consumer segment levels from banked to unbanked from smartphones to feature phones and even to non mobile subscribers. All parties can buy and shop within Payment Order cryptography IP.

In various embodiments the present technology specializes in a number of diverse business domains including Value Added Services VAS Mobile Money Mobile payment Money Transfer Mobile banking Mobile health care retail VOIP m Commerce and works with different stakeholders including banks payment service providers telcos service providers retailer etc.

In various embodiments of the present technology a computer implemented method for conducting a secure transaction over a network using one or more gateway servers the method includes generating with a processor the payment order by encoding changes to the values of the request from the consumer storing the payment order in a first memory location receiving the payment authorization and storing the payment authorization in a second memory location comparing with a processor the payment authorization with the payment order and converting the payment authorization into a secure transaction authorization.

In some embodiments the present technology provides a mobile application that may be downloaded to a mobile device. A user e.g. consumer or merchant registers with a central system to activate an account. The user may then fund the account from one or more sources for instance a credit account a debit account also referred to as a checking account a savings account loyalty accounts a virtual currency or any other appropriate currency account. The user may link the one or more accounts and may institute an automatic replenishment also referred to as a top off order. The authentication process may include associating a mobile number user name email account information and any other identifying information. A password may be provided or selected and an activation code may be sent via Short Message System SMS text message to the mobile device to ensure correct association.

In various embodiments the user e.g. consumer or merchant then chooses to pay a bill using the mobile application. For example a user may indicate to a merchant a desire to pay a bill with the present application also referred to as Payit or the Payit application and may identify themselves to the merchant using their mobile phone number. The merchant may have the Payit application downloaded to a mobile device at a cash register on a tablet or may quickly download the Payit application to any of these devices or any other appropriate device. Using the Payit application the merchant may send a secure encrypted Internet Protocol IP message to the user based on the Payit identifier of the user. The secure encrypted IP message may be hashed using a public and private key management system to ensure utmost security and privacy. The encrypted IP message includes a payment order. The user then opens the Payit application sees the payment order in a list of payment orders and authorizes the payment. The authorization may be a secure encrypted IP message sent to the merchant and indicates payment. The merchant and consumer have records in their respective accounts in the Payit application of all payment orders both received and unpaid and paid. Alternatively the user may choose to reject or not pay any payment order thus ensuring user confidence in the Payit application.

According to some embodiments the user e.g. consumer or merchant chooses to pay monthly or other periodic bills using the Payit application. By linking certain service providers for example phone internet utility or other monthly or other periodic or non periodic bills with the Payit application the user may consolidate all billing in a central location and may reduce transaction costs and bookkeeping obligations. The user may also choose to share certain information from the Payit application to other contacts either from the Payit application or from another address book application or via a social media application.

According to various embodiments the user e.g. consumer or merchant uses the Payit application to shop for goods and services by searching for an item or a merchant in the Payit application and selecting goods or services for purchase. The merchant may receive the order from the user in the Payit application and then may send a secure encrypted IP message to the user via the Payit application including a payment order. The user may receive the payment order and authorize it causing the Payit application to send a secure encrypted IP message to the merchant. The merchant then fulfills the order.

In exemplary embodiments merchants use the Payit application to receive payments from a consumer make payments to suppliers and maintain inventory. Merchants may link inventory and orders from suppliers so that when inventory drops below a predetermined selectable threshold a new order to a supplier is made and payment may be made.

According to some embodiments the system may operate in a cloud based computer environment or alternatively may operate as a secure server. All communications to and from mobile devices and other mobile applications may be encrypted and decrypted for security purposes.

According to various embodiments the Payit application may be a mobile application and or may be used on a laptop smartphone or PDA wearable device and may be downloadable or web based. Alternatively the system may be implemented in software and or hardware. A mobile application may be provided that enables a user to access a web based version of the system from a mobile device.

The system may communicatively couple with clients via a public or private network. Suitable networks may include or interface with any one or more of for instance a local intranet a PAN Personal Area Network a LAN Local Area Network a WAN Wide Area Network a MAN Metropolitan Area Network a virtual private network VPN a storage area network SAN a frame relay connection an Advanced Intelligent Network AIN connection a synchronous optical network SONET connection a digital T1 T3 E1 or E3 line Digital Data Service DDS connection DSL Digital Subscriber Line connection an Ethernet connection an ISDN Integrated Services Digital Network line a dial up port such as a V.90 V.34 or V.34bis analog modem connection a cable modem an ATM Asynchronous Transfer Mode connection or an FDDI Fiber Distributed Data Interface or CDDI Copper Distributed Data Interface connection and the like. Furthermore communications may also include links to any of a variety of wireless networks including WAP Wireless Application Protocol GPRS General Packet Radio Service GSM Global System for Mobile Communication CDMA Code Division Multiple Access or TDMA Time Division Multiple Access cellular phone networks GPS Global Positioning System CDPD cellular digital packet data RIM Research in Motion Limited duplex paging network Bluetooth radio or an IEEE 802.11 based radio frequency network and the like. A network can further include or interface with any one or more of an RS 232 serial connection an IEEE 1394 Firewire connection a Fiber Channel connection an IrDA infrared port a SCSI Small Computer Systems Interface connection a USB Universal Serial Bus connection or other wired or wireless digital or analog interface or connection mesh or Digi networking and the like.

The system in generally comprises consumer application merchant application dealer application and checkout application . The system further includes application programming interface s public application programming interface s gateway server s and switch . Application programming interface s gateway server s and switch form sub system which may also be referred to as the internal Payit system. Consumer application merchant application dealer application and checkout application may communicate bilaterally with gateway server s via application programming interface s . System also includes payment service providers PSPs and consumer service providers CSPs . Payment service providers PSPs may communicate bilaterally with gateway server s via switch . Consumer service providers CSPs may bilaterally communicate directly with gateway server s . Consumer service providers CSPs may include the merchant service providers operating on behalf of the merchant and or third party retailers working in partnership with or appearing in a catalog of the merchant.

In various embodiments the switch adds additional security to messages sent within the system and system by signing authenticating and applying business rules to the messages during the routing process. For example a MyOrders cryptographic message is signed with a public and a private key. In addition to hashing Secure Socket Layer SSL encryption and key store exchange occurs between systems within a merchant and consumer data flow. The switch maintains extra signing and login handshake authentication that may involve account parameters for achieving a purchase transaction. For instance when a merchant pushes an order through the gateway server s the switch routes the order to a consumer system by applying business rules linked to the order itself. The switch routes the order to a consumer system by applying business rules linked to the order itself whether the order is within a Payit Network to a third party system and or issued by a third party party merchant. Thus the switch applies signing authentication and business rules to orders during the routing process which is managed via a fraud control policy risk management and end to end business rules. In contrast a normal switch has known standards and authentication that can be compromised when an IP packet data is transported from one system to another.

According to various embodiments a closed loop transaction operates within a Payit network with a set of cryptography parameters that are shared between modules making every purchase and payment operate seamlessly within the data flow. When an open loop transaction is initiated for routing an order or a third party system requests to submit orders then IP packets receive extra parameters to ensure that the outside system is authorized to communicate with the Payit network through the switch . For example signing with keys authentication and application of business rules are all maintained and enforced by the switch for each IP cryptography packet to ensure that a transaction is genuine before processing it with the Payit network e.g. system or system .

The method illustrated in may also be adapted to the case of sending money securely. In the money transfer use case a user can initiate the transaction by inputting a merchant identifier into the consumer application and sending a payment request to the system. In this manner a user may send a payment to a friend or relative via the merchant. In still further alternatives a shopping cart may enable direct shopping by the consumer and also enable a merchant to maintain stock inventory.

It will be understood that the functionalities described herein which are attributed to the system may also be executed within a client. That is a client may be programmed to execute the functionalities described herein. In other instances the system and a client may cooperate to provide the functionalities described herein such that a client is provided with a client side application that interacts with the system such that the system and a client operate in a client server relationship. Complex computational features may be executed by the gateway server s while simple operations that require fewer computational resources may be executed by a client such as data gathering and data display.

In general a user interface module may be executed by the system to provide various programmable user interfaces such as a graphical user interfaces GUIs that allow users e.g. merchants and consumers to interact with the system . In some instances GUIs are generated by execution of an application itself. Users may interact with the system using for example a client. The system may generate web based interfaces for a client. The system is generally referred to herein as Payit system and or Payit services 

In various embodiments the present technology is a system delivery specification. Exemplary mobile payment systems and applications for consumers and merchants are described below. Exemplary GUIs include the Payit Home Screen comprising the following main icons MyPayit Services Loyalty Cards Merchants We Listen Language Switcher Quick Help Tour and Countries.

In some embodiments the MyPayit icon includes MyOrders. MyOrders is part of MyPayit that allows users e.g. merchants and consumers to activate their account view their account balance add funds from different sources to their account and instantly make transactions with Payit services rather than filling out debit credit card details for every transaction. For instance a consumer may make a request for product or a service from a merchant. In response to the request for the product or the service the merchant sends the consumer a purchase order for each request. The purchase order may be an invoice bill of sale account statement and the like. MyOrders is incoming purchase orders from different merchants in response to requests for products or services by the consumer. The consumer may accept the purchase order and process payment for the purchase order. Alternatively the consumer may reject the purchase order. For example MyOrders is a solution for parents to approve payments for purchases made by their children at school. For instance a child can make a purchase at school using the Payit system and a parent can remotely approve the purchase using the Payit system. MyOrders may be associated with a single user e.g. consumer with a master account and that oversees multiple payments for multiple accounts using a single payment processing point.

According to various embodiments MyOrders is an inbox holding all the details of all pending purchase orders. The pending purchase orders are categorized with the order status such as order pending or order already paid. For example the details of the purchase orders include merchant name order number representation of the product or service price or the product or service quantity and the like. A consumer may select a particular pending purchase order to view the details of that particular pending purchase order. Additionally consumers can share the details of their purchase order with other users using social media messaging and the like.

In some embodiments the scope within the Payit system includes the following on the merchant interface side e.g. merchant application and the consumer interface side e.g. consumer application . The merchant interface side includes a Payit interface and or a third party interface. Both the Payit interface and the third party interface include a regular Point of Sale POS a Payit merchant and or any additional applications from any source operator. The consumer interface side includes an internal consumer wallet and or a third party wallet and or a direct bank account interface.

In various embodiments the merchant interface and the consumer interface communicate with high security through the cloud. For example communications are hashed with public and private keys management. The purchase orders are sent to account specific numbers. For example payment orders are sent via a Mobile Station International Subscriber Directory Number MSISDN email Identification a verification code and the like. Bilateral communication between the merchant interface and the consumer interface may be through a network as described herein.

In some embodiments the processing of purchase orders follows the following flow depending on whether the consumer and or the merchant have a PSP activated. If the consumer and or the merchant do not have a PSP activated an activation message is sent to the consumer and or to the merchant. If the consumer and merchant have a PSP activated the flow depends on which payment system the consumer and merchant have activated such as an internal consumer wallet account e.g. Payit Wallet a third party wallet and or a direct bank account access. If the consumer and the merchant both have a Payit Wallet transaction flow results in credit value moving from the consumer wallet account to the merchant wallet account instantly. If consumer and or merchant wallet do not have a Payit Wallet then the transaction will be completed using an alternative PSP e.g. the third party wallet or the direct bank account access . For instance if the consumer and or the merchant do not both have a Payit Wallet the merchant account must be activated. Transaction flow results in credit value added to the merchant wallet account as soon as the issuer of the third party wallet responds to a payment request. For example if the consumer account and or the merchant account include a direct bank account access a merchant wallet account must be activated. Transaction flow results in credit value added to the merchant wallet as soon as the issuer of the user bank account responds to a payment processing request.

In various embodiments one in activation enables consumers to have one time activation of accounts. For example consumers activate the MyPayit system with their mobile number. Payit consumers are sent email verification and the email will be used for future communications between the Payit system and consumers. Additionally a consumer password is established with secondary authentication by the consumer email and or mobile number. For instance authentication by mobile number is completed by an activation code delivered via a text message. In some instances if the consumer does not respond to the activation within five minutes the activation code expires and must be resent.

In some embodiments after one in is activated consumers can view the MyPayit home page that includes account balances and recent transactions of the consumer. The account balance may be a single account balance that can be used to pay any merchant for any product or service. Additionally recent transactions of the consumer are displayed below the account balance. MyPayit alerts consumers when their account balance falls below a threshold. For example the MyPayit Homepage sends a push notification to a consumer when the account balance falls below the threshold. For instance when the account balance of a consumer reaches or is below a consumer selected threshold MyPayit sends the consumer an alert. A consumer may add funds to their account balance from multiple sources such as a credit debit card voucher gift card or loyalty card by clicking on an Add Funds button on the MyPayit Homepage.

In various embodiments the merchant catalog includes the following. From the consumer perspective e.g. GUIs coupled with consumer application a consumer selects the merchant icon to display merchants with available items. A consumer can select to display the merchants by name and or by category of goods. For example the category of goods may include Automotive Business Supplies Electronics Education Entertainment Food and Dining and Health Medicine. The consumer can select their desired category of goods and view all the merchants that sell goods classified in that category. Each merchant displays the number of in stock items in the selected category. The merchant side e.g. GUIs coupled with merchant application allows the merchant to update the status of the goods in real time.

According to various embodiments the consumer and the merchant are interact by the consumer virtual shopping in the merchant store. For example the merchant adds items using the Payit system to their merchant store. The consumer requests an item by selecting a Request button for the item of interest in the merchant store. The merchant receives the request in the merchant side that enables the merchant to accept or to reject the consumer request for the item. The consumer instantaneously receives a notification if the merchant accepts the consumer request. Upon acceptance of the consumer request the Payit system sends a payment request to the consumer. The consumer can reject or pay the payment request from the merchant. If the consumer accepts the payment request the merchant receives a payment confirmation. Once the merchant receives confirmation of payment from the consumer the merchant delivers the item and issues a receipt to the consumer.

In some embodiments the Payit system includes the following parties Payit platform consumers financial institutions merchant retailers billers and service providers and governments. The Payit platform features include an administrative panel for managing Payit services account access privileges for the affiliated team and dealers multiple delivery options across multiple channels centralized back to back services integration automated processing for different methods of payment Payit compatibility for all transactions with all devices and operating systems and real time payment. Payit includes the following functionalities for consumers choice of multiple funding sources secure access to trusted funding sources a single screen for quick access to selection buttons real time access to services multiple language options with localized language use and overall system that is intuitive easy to use and always available. Payit functionalities for financial institutions include new revenue streams an efficient payment process decreased controlled risk user protection with a verified Know Your Consumer KYC policies. A bank account of a user remains the center for funding. Payit functionality for merchant retailers include a mobilized inventory system scalability to match products of a merchant decreased cost to complete business and secure instant invoicing that results in reliable payment. Payit functionality for billers and service providers include decreased costs minimal service charges invoice collection in real time before product delivery strong consumer relationships and ability to reach new consumers. Payit features for governments include a simple payment process increased consumer choice decreased risk for regulation and money pools and improving the daily life of individuals.

According to various embodiments the following are the transaction flows of functionality enabled by the Payit system for consumers requesting items from a merchant catalog consumer purchasing merchants sending orders to consumers merchant pushing consumer transacting with another consumer peer to peer transactions and integration of third parties non Payit merchant or consumer with the Payit system third party merchant requests . Closed loop transaction flows are between Payit wallet users. For example consumer purchasing and merchant pushing are closed loop transactions when both the merchant and the Payit user utilize the Payit wallet for the transaction. Open loop transaction flows include a third party wallet. For example an open loop transaction between a user with a Payit Wallet and a user with a third party wallet or between two users that both have third party wallets. The Payit system acts as the processor of the transaction between the two users e.g. consumer and merchant .

The components shown in are depicted as being connected via a single bus . The components may be connected through one or more data transport means. Processor unit s and main memory are connected via a local microprocessor bus and the mass data storage peripheral device s portable storage device and graphics display system are connected via one or more input output I O buses.

Mass data storage which can be implemented with a magnetic disk drive solid state drive or an optical disk drive is a non volatile storage device for storing data and instructions for use by processor unit s . Mass data storage stores the system software for implementing embodiments of the present disclosure for purposes of loading that software into main memory .

Portable storage device operates in conjunction with a portable non volatile storage medium such as a flash drive floppy disk compact disk digital video disc or Universal Serial Bus USB storage device to input and output data and code to and from the computer system in . The system software for implementing embodiments of the present disclosure is stored on such a portable medium and input to the computer system via the portable storage device .

User input devices can provide a portion of a user interface. User input devices may include one or more microphones an alphanumeric keypad such as a keyboard for inputting alphanumeric and other information or a pointing device such as a mouse a trackball stylus or cursor direction keys. User input devices can also include a touchscreen. Additionally the computer system as shown in includes output devices . Suitable output devices include speakers printers network interfaces and monitors.

Graphics display system include a liquid crystal display LCD or other suitable display device. Graphics display system is configurable to receive textual and graphical information and processes the information for output to the display device.

Peripheral device s may include any type of computer support device to add additional functionality to the computer system .

The components provided in the computer system in are those typically found in computer systems that may be suitable for use with embodiments of the present disclosure and are intended to represent a broad category of such computer components that are well known in the art. Thus the computer system in can be a personal computer PC hand held computer system telephone mobile computer system workstation tablet phablet mobile phone server minicomputer mainframe computer wearable or any other computer system. The computer may also include different bus configurations networked platforms multi processor platforms and the like. Various operating systems may be used including UNIX LINUX WINDOWS MAC OS PALM OS QNX ANDROID IOS CHROME and other suitable operating systems.

Some of the above described functions may be composed of instructions that are stored on storage media e.g. computer readable medium . The instructions may be retrieved and executed by the processor. Some examples of storage media are memory devices tapes disks and the like. The instructions are operational when executed by the processor to direct the processor to operate in accord with the technology. Those skilled in the art are familiar with instructions processor s and storage media.

In some embodiments the computer system may be implemented as a cloud based computing environment such as a virtual machine operating within a computing cloud. In other embodiments the computer system may itself include a cloud based computing environment where the functionalities of the computer system are executed in a distributed fashion. Thus the computer system when configured as a computing cloud may include pluralities of computing devices in various forms as will be described in greater detail below.

In general a cloud based computing environment is a resource that typically combines the computational power of a large grouping of processors such as within web servers and or that combines the storage capacity of a large grouping of computer memories or storage devices. Systems that provide cloud based resources may be utilized exclusively by their owners or such systems may be accessible to outside users who deploy applications within the computing infrastructure to obtain the benefit of large computational or storage resources.

The cloud is formed for example by a network of web servers that comprise a plurality of computing devices such as the computer system with each server or at least a plurality thereof providing processor and or storage resources. These servers manage workloads provided by multiple users e.g. cloud resource consumers or other users . Typically each user places workload demands upon the cloud that vary in real time sometimes dramatically. The nature and extent of these variations typically depends on the type of business associated with the user.

It is noteworthy that any hardware platform suitable for performing the processing described herein is suitable for use with the technology. The terms computer readable storage medium and computer readable storage media as used herein refer to any medium or media that participate in providing instructions to a CPU for execution. Such media can take many forms including but not limited to non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. Non volatile media include for example optical magnetic and solid state disks such as a fixed disk. Volatile media include dynamic memory such as system RAM. Transmission media include coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics among others including the wires that comprise one embodiment of a bus. Transmission media can also take the form of acoustic or light waves such as those generated during radio frequency RF and infrared IR data communications. Common forms of computer readable media include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk a hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium a CD ROM disk digital video disk DVD any other optical medium any other physical medium with patterns of marks or holes a RAM a PROM an EPROM an EEPROM a FLASH memory any other memory chip or data exchange adapter a carrier wave or any other medium from which a computer can read.

Various forms of computer readable media may be involved in carrying one or more sequences of one or more instructions to a CPU for execution. A bus carries the data to system RAM from which a CPU retrieves and executes the instructions. The instructions received by system RAM can optionally be stored on a fixed disk either before or after execution by a CPU.

Computer program code for carrying out operations for aspects of the present technology may be written in any combination of one or more programming languages including an object oriented programming language such as JAVA SMALLTALK C and the like and conventional procedural programming languages such as the C programming language or similar programming languages. The program code may execute entirely on the user s computer partly on the user s computer as a stand alone software package partly on the user s computer and partly on a remote computer or entirely on the remote computer or server. In the latter scenario the remote computer may be connected to the user s computer through any type of network including a local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN or the connection may be made to an external computer for example through the Internet using an Internet Service Provider .

The corresponding structures materials acts and equivalents of all means or step plus function elements in the claims below are intended to include any structure material or act for performing the function in combination with other claimed elements as specifically claimed. The description of the present technology has been presented for purposes of illustration and description but is not intended to be exhaustive or limited to the invention in the form disclosed. Many modifications and variations will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention. Exemplary embodiments were chosen and described in order to best explain the principles of the present technology and its practical application and to enable others of ordinary skill in the art to understand the invention for various embodiments with various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated.

Aspects of the present technology are described above with reference to flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams of methods apparatus systems and computer program products according to embodiments of the invention. It will be understood that each block of the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams and combinations of blocks in the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams can be implemented by computer program instructions. These computer program instructions may be provided to a processor of a general purpose computer special purpose computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a machine such that the instructions which execute via the processor of the computer or other programmable data processing apparatus create means for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable medium that can direct a computer other programmable data processing apparatus or other devices to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer readable medium produce an article of manufacture including instructions which implement the function act specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer other programmable data processing apparatus or other devices to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer other programmable apparatus or other devices to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide processes for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

The flowchart and block diagrams in the Figures illustrate the architecture functionality and operation of possible implementations of systems methods and computer program products according to various embodiments of the present technology. In this regard each block in the flowchart or block diagrams may represent a module segment or portion of code which comprises one or more executable instructions for implementing the specified logical function s . It should also be noted that in some alternative implementations the functions noted in the block may occur out of the order noted in the figures. For example two blocks shown in succession may in fact be executed substantially concurrently or the blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order depending upon the functionality involved. It will also be noted that each block of the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration and combinations of blocks in the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration can be implemented by special purpose hardware based systems that perform the specified functions or acts or combinations of special purpose hardware and computer instructions.

The description of the present technology has been presented for purposes of illustration and description but is not intended to be exhaustive or limited to the invention in the form disclosed. Many modifications and variations will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention. Exemplary embodiments were chosen and described in order to best explain the principles of the present technology and its practical application and to enable others of ordinary skill in the art to understand the invention for various embodiments with various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated.

