---

title: Optimizing a dispensing parameter of a product dispenser based on product usage data
abstract: Systems, methods, and computer-readable media are disclosed for optimizing a value of a dispensing parameter of a product dispenser based at least in part on product usage data. The dispensing parameter may include any suitable adjustable parameter of the product dispenser including, but not limited to, a dispense duration, a volume of product (e.g., a shot size), a sheet length, a capability of a user sensor to distinguish between genuine and false triggers of the sensor, a delay setting that specifies a delay time between successive dispenses, or the like. The value of the dispensing parameter may be optimized to align an actual performance outcome with a target performance outcome. The target performance outcome may include, for example, minimizing product usage per user, maximizing user sensor reliability (e.g., a percentage of dispenses that occur in response to genuine user-initiated triggering events), and so forth.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09645561&OS=09645561&RS=09645561
owner: Georgia-Pacific Consumer Products LP
number: 09645561
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150123
---
Users may utilize product dispensers that dispense a variety of types of products such as for example sheet products solids liquids gases or products that include or exhibit characteristics of multiple phases of matter such as gels aerosols foams and so forth. An automated product dispenser for example may be configured to dispense a quantity of a product in response to detection of the movement or presence of an object e.g. a user s hand by a sensor. As another example an automated product dispenser may operate in hang mode and may include a tear sensor that detects when a product such as a sheet product has been separated from a product roll and generates a signal that causes the dispenser to dispense additional sheet product of a predetermined length. Various settings for controlling the operation of a product dispenser may be configurable such as for example an incremental amount of the product dispensed during each dispensing cycle.

This disclosure relates to among other things devices systems methods computer readable media techniques and methodologies for optimizing a value of a dispensing parameter of a product dispenser based at least in part on product usage data. The dispensing parameter may include any suitable adjustable parameter of the product dispenser including but not limited to a dispense duration a volume of product e.g. a shot size a sheet length a product concentration a capability of a user sensor to distinguish between genuine and false triggers of the sensor a delay setting that specifies a delay time between successive dispenses or the like. The value of the dispensing parameter may be optimized to align an actual performance outcome with a target performance outcome. The target performance outcome may include for example minimizing product usage per user maximizing user sensor reliability e.g. a percentage of dispenses that occur in response to genuine user initiated triggering events and so forth.

In an example embodiment a product dispenser may be configured to dispense a certain quantity of a product during each dispensing cycle of the dispenser. The product dispenser may be an automated product dispenser that may include a user sensor a dispensing mechanism and a controller configured to generate a signal to actuate the dispensing mechanism to dispense a predetermined amount of product in response to a dispense signal generated by the user sensor. More specifically the user sensor may generate a dispense signal in response to a triggering event and the dispense signal may be received by the controller which may then generate an actuation signal to actuate the dispensing mechanism to dispense the predetermined amount of product. While example embodiments of the disclosure may be described in the context of automated product dispensers it should be appreciated that such embodiments may be applicable to mechanical manually operated product dispensers air blowers and so forth.

The user sensor may be for example a photo sensor that includes a light source that generates a beam of focused light and a light sensor that detects a disruption in the light beam caused by an object e.g. a user s hand and generates a dispense signal in response to the detected disruption. As another example the user sensor may be a radar based sensor that transmits bursts of microwave or ultrasound energy and analyzes a pattern of the reflected energy to determine whether a triggering event has occurred. The presence of an object e.g. a user s hand may cause the reflected energy to exhibit an irregular pattern and the user sensor may generate a dispense signal in response to this detected irregular pattern. As yet another non limiting example the user sensor may be a passive infrared sensor that detects infrared energy emitted by an object. When an object e.g. a user s hand is in proximity of the sensor the infrared energy detected by the sensor may fluctuate causing the sensor to generate a dispense signal. As still another example the product dispenser may operate in hang mode in which removal of a length of sheet product exposed from an opening of the dispenser may cause a tear sensor of the dispenser to generate a dispense signal which in turn may cause another predetermined length of sheet product to be dispensed through the opening of the dispenser. Other example types of sensors may include without limitation active infrared sensors capacitive sensors and so forth. It should be appreciated that the above examples of types of sensors that may be employed is merely illustrative and not exhaustive.

It should further be appreciated that a product dispenser that includes a user sensor e.g. a motion sensor user proximity sensor or the like and dispenses product in response to a signal generated by the user sensor e.g. an on demand dispenser may nonetheless also include a tear sensor that generates and sends a tear signal to the controller upon detection of a tear event. However unlike a hang mode dispenser the controller of an on demand dispenser may not initiate a dispensing cycle e.g. energize a motor of the dispenser responsive to receipt of the tear signal.

The dispensing mechanism of the product dispenser may include a motor that is energized by a power source e.g. a battery in response to an actuation signal received from a controller of the dispenser. Upon being energized the motor may actuate a pumping mechanism and or one or more other components of the dispensing mechanism e.g. mechanical rollers to cause an amount of product to be dispensed as part of a dispensing cycle. A dispensing cycle may refer to a particular instance in which the motor is energized and other component s of the dispensing mechanism are actuated to cause a predetermined amount of a product to be dispensed. It should be appreciated that in certain example embodiments less than the predetermined amount of a product may be dispensed during a dispensing cycle. For example user behavior may cause the dispensing cycle to end prematurely before the predetermined amount of product is dispensed. For example a user may tear off a sheet product from a sheet product dispenser before a predetermined amount of sheet length is dispensed thereby prematurely halting the dispensing cycle and triggering a tear sensor of the product dispenser to generate a tear signal that causes the dispenser if the dispenser is operating in hang mode to dispense an additional predetermined amount of the product as part of a subsequent dispensing cycle.

Referring to an example sheet product dispenser may include a sheet product supply such as a roll of sheet product e.g. tissue or paper towel and a feed mechanism for moving sheet product within and out of the dispenser . The feed mechanism depicted in more detail in may include a drive roller a pinch roller positioned in close proximity to the drive roller to form a pinch or nip there between. The roll of sheet product may be supported on roll holders apart from the drive roller and the pinch roller and a free end of the roll may be threaded through the nip formed between the drive roller and the pinch roller . The product dispenser may be adapted for hands free operation for dispensing one or more rolls of sheet product.

The dispenser may include a motor and a transmission . The motor may be for example a brushed direct current DC motor a DC stepper motor or the like. The transmission may include any combination of gears pulleys belts or the like for transferring rotational forces from the motor to the feed mechanism . In an example embodiment the transmission may include a motor shaft that couples the motor to the drive roller . The motor may be powered by a power supply not shown such as a battery pack or external AC e.g. with an appropriate transformer and adapter or a DC power supply. Moreover the dispenser may be configured to be switched between battery power and AC power.

In operation in response to an actuation signal generated by a controller of the dispenser a power supply may energize the motor which may in turn actuate the drive roller via the transmission . The actuation signal may be generated in response to a signal received from a user sensor of the dispenser . Rotation of the drive roller may cause the pinch roller to rotate thereby causing the sheet product to be pulled from the roll through the nip formed between the drive roller and the pinch roller under the force of friction.

If the dispenser is operating in hang mode for example the dispenser may be configured to dispense sheet product in response to a signal received from a tear sensor of the dispenser . As depicted in and in more detail in the dispenser may include a tear assembly that may in turn include a tear bar pivotably mounted to a body of the dispenser and a switch in communication with the controller . In operation to remove a portion of the sheet product roll a user may apply a force on the portion which may cause the portion to engage the tear bar and cause the tear bar to pivot into contact with the switch . Upon engagement with the tear bar the switch may generate a signal indicating that a tear operation has taken place which may be communicated to the controller . Upon receipt of this signal the controller may generate an actuation signal to cause a dispensing cycle to occur. It should be appreciated that in cases where perforated paper is dispensed the tear bar may be omitted.

In other example embodiments the tear assembly may include a stationary tear bar a tear bail and a switch in communication with the controller . In such example embodiments in operation to remove the portion of the sheet product roll a user may apply a force on the portion against the stationary tear bar. As the portion is pulled against the tear bar contact may be made between the product sheet and the tear bail causing the tear bail to rotate into contact with the switch. Upon engagement with the tear bail the switch may generate a signal indicating that a tear operation has taken place which may then be communicated to the controller . It should be appreciated that a variety of other configurations and modes of operation are possible for the tear assembly .

The controller may be any suitable controller such as for example a microcontroller. Example microcontrollers include but are not limited to an MSP430 Ultra Low Power microcontroller manufactured by Texas Instruments a proportional integral differential PID microcontroller configured to implement various stepper motor control techniques. Microchip Inc. s CMOS FLASH based 8 bit microcontroller or the like. Inputs to the controller may include a battery voltage signal a tear bar activation signal a cover switch signal a paper length switch signal a towel delay switch signal a manual advance switch signal and an ON switch signal. Outputs of the controller may include motor control signals and LED signals. Motor control signals may be used to control the motor and thus the speed at which sheet product is moved by feed mechanism as described herein.

In other example embodiments of the disclosure a product dispenser may dispense solids liquids gases or products that include or exhibit characteristics of multiple phases of matter such as gels aerosols foams and so forth. For example the product dispenser may be a soap dispenser. Such example product dispensers may include a product container for storing the product such as for example a bag or bottle. Such example product dispensers may further include a controller a pump and a motor. In response to an actuation signal received from the controller the motor may actuate the pump to cause the pump to dispense a predetermined amount of the product e.g. volume of product weight of product etc. from the container.

In an example embodiment a product dispenser may be initially configured to dispense a predetermined amount of a product in accordance with an initial value of a dispensing parameter. Referring to a sheet product length dispensing parameter solely for explanatory purposes the sheet length may be pre programmed to an initial value for an initial dispensing period. Alternatively the initial value may be set manually using a physical button or switch or via user interaction with a user interface e.g. a touch screen interface of the product dispenser. It should be appreciated that the first and second dispensing periods may represent an initial dispensing period and a dispensing period that immediately follows the initial dispensing period respectively or may represent any two dispensing periods associated with operation of a product dispenser. The first and second dispensing periods may be consecutive or non consecutive dispensing periods.

During the first dispensing period a first number of dispensing cycles may be triggered where each dispensing cycle may involve the dispensing of an amount of the product sheet corresponding to a first value of the dispensing parameter which may be a pre programmed initial value if for example the first dispensing period is an initial dispensing period . For some users the sheet length corresponding to the first value may be sufficient to meet their needs. However for other users the sheet length corresponding to the first value may be insufficient to meet their needs in which case such users may trigger one or more additional dispensing cycles to obtain additional amounts of sheet product. A user that triggers multiple dispensing cycles may in actuality however require an intermediate amount of sheet product that is less than what is dispensed as part of the multiple dispensing cycles. For example a sheet length of 12 inches may be insufficient for a particular user in which case the user may trigger two dispenses of the sheet product resulting in a total of 24 inches of sheet product being dispensed. A sheet length of 16 inches may however may have been sufficient to meet the needs of the user. As such the additional 8 inches of sheet product that is dispensed may constitute a waste of product.

Accordingly example embodiments of the disclosure are directed to processes for optimizing a value of a dispensing parameter such as sheet product length to minimize overall usage of the product across an aggregate number of users of a product dispenser who may exhibit varying user behavior with respect to the amount of product needed to meet their consumption needs. Optimization processes disclosed herein may be performed responsive to execution of executable instructions code or the like by a controller of a product dispenser and or by one or more processing units that may be provided in a remote environment from a local environment in which the dispenser is provided. The executable instructions code or the like may be stored on local data storage of the product dispenser and or may be stored on one or more remote storage media.

Still referring to the example embodiment introduced above a first counter of the accumulated value of the dispensing parameter during the first dispensing period may be maintained. For example the first counter may represent the total amount of sheet product dispensed during the first dispensing period. In certain example embodiments the first counter may be incremented by the first value of the dispensing parameter after each dispense that occurs during the first dispensing period.

The value of a dispensing parameter that is used to increment the counter that represents an accumulated amount of product dispensed during a dispensing period may be a pre programmed value as may be the case with the initial dispensing period a value calculated in accordance with an optimization process disclosed herein or a directly measured value. If the value is measured any of a variety of techniques may be used to obtain the measurement depending on the type of dispensing parameter. For example if the dispensing parameter is sheet length a number of revolutions of mechanical rollers of the product dispenser may be used to determine the sheet length dispensed. As another example if the dispensing parameter is dispense duration an amount of time that elapses between activation of the dispensing mechanism and deactivation of the dispensing mechanism may be measured. More particularly in certain example embodiments an amount of time that a motor of the product dispenser is activated may be measured and used as the dispense duration or correlated to a particular sheet length. Due to reduced power capacity of a power source of the dispenser e.g. one or more batteries over time the motor may need to run for an increasingly longer period of time in order to dispense a same amount of product to satisfy user demands. As such the techniques and methodologies disclosed herein for optimizing a value of a dispensing parameter such as motor run time can be used to automatically adjust e.g. increase the motor run time in order to achieve a target performance outcome such as minimizing product usage per user. Measuring the value of the dispensing parameter rather than using a pre programmed value or a calculated value may be appropriate in those scenarios in which a user prematurely halts a dispensing cycle and retrieves less than the predetermined amount of product such as for example when a user tears dispensed sheet product before the entire predetermined amount of sheet product is dispensed.

Still referring to the example embodiment introduced above a second counter of an estimated number of unique users that received dispenses during the first dispensing period may also be maintained. In certain example embodiments a predetermined period of time e.g. 10 seconds may be used to determine whether any two dispenses were triggered by the same user or different users. For example if a given dispense occurred within the predetermined period of time of a previous dispense the given dispense and previous dispense may be determined to have been triggered by the same user. Conversely if two dispenses occurred more than the predetermined period of time apart from each other they may be attributed to different users. In this manner a second counter of the number of unique users that received dispenses during the first dispensing period may be maintained. As will be described in more detail later in this disclosure the estimate of the number of unique users that used the dispenser during a dispensing period may be refined through the use of a confidence factor in order to arrive at a more accurate estimate of the actual number of users. The confidence factor may represent the approximate likelihood that two dispenses that occurred within the predetermined period of time are attributable to the same user and may be determined using one or more statistical techniques.

The final values of the first and second counters may then be stored at the completion of the first dispensing period. The occurrence of any of a variety of conditions may determine when a dispensing period ends. For example a dispensing period may end when it is determined that a threshold number of unique users have received dispenses during the dispensing period. As another non limiting example a dispensing period may end after a threshold period of time has elapsed. As yet another example a dispensing period may end after a threshold number of dispensing cycles have occurred.

At any time after the conclusion of the first dispensing period a second dispensing period may be initiated. As previously noted the first and second dispensing periods may be consecutive e.g. the second dispensing period may immediately succeed the first dispensing period or the first and second dispensing period may be non consecutive e.g. one or more other dispensing periods may occur between the first and second dispensing periods . In certain example embodiments the first value of the dispensing parameter for the first dispensing period may be adjusted to obtain a second value of the dispensing parameter for the second dispensing period. If the first dispensing period is in fact the initial dispensing period associated with operation of the dispenser the first value of the dispensing parameter may be increased or decreased based on a default setting in order to obtain the second value of the dispensing parameter for the second dispensing period. For example in certain example embodiments the initial value of the dispensing parameter may be decreased to obtain the second value of the dispensing parameter based on a default assumption that a reduction in the amount of product dispensed per dispensing cycle may result in a reduced overall usage per user for a dispensing period. For example if an initial sheet length of 10 inches is dispensed for each dispensing cycle during the first dispensing period the sheet length may be reduced to 9 inches for the subsequent second dispensing period.

As will be described in more detail hereinafter the value of the dispensing parameter for a third dispensing period that occurs at some point after the second dispensing period may then be determined based on an evaluation of the relationship between the first value of the dispensing parameter during the first dispensing period and the second value of the dispensing parameter during the second dispensing period and the relationship between the aggregate usage per user during the first dispensing period and the aggregate usage per user during the second dispensing period. An adjustment to the dispensing parameter value for any given dispensing period subsequent to the third dispensing period may be similarly determined based on a relationship between the respective dispensing parameter values for any two prior dispensing periods and a relationship between the respective aggregate usages per user for the two prior dispensing periods.

As previously noted in the case in which the first dispensing period is the initial dispensing period the first value of the dispensing parameter may be adjusted e.g. decreased based on a default setting to obtain the second value of the dispensing parameter for the second dispensing period. If on the other hand the first dispensing period is some dispensing period subsequent to the initial dispensing period the first value of the dispensing parameter may be increased or decreased to obtain the second value of the dispensing parameter for the second dispensing period based on a comparison of usage data associated with the first dispensing period and usage data associated with a previous e.g. an immediately preceding dispensing period as will be described in more detail below.

In a similar manner as described above with respect to the first dispensing period a first counter of the accumulated value of the dispensing parameter e.g. the aggregate amount of product dispensed during the second dispensing period may be maintained. For example the first counter may represent the total amount of sheet product dispensed during the second dispensing period. In addition a second counter of an estimated number of unique users that received dispenses during the second dispensing period may also be maintained. At any point after the conclusion of the second dispensing period the second value of the dispensing parameter during the second dispensing period may be compared to the first value of the dispensing parameter during the first dispensing period. In addition the aggregate amount of product dispensed per user also referred to herein as accumulated value of the dispensing parameter accumulated usage per user aggregate usage per user or usage data per user during the first dispensing period may be compared to the aggregate amount of product dispensed per user during the second dispensing period. The nature of the adjustment made if any to a previous value of the dispensing parameter to obtain a third value of the dispensing parameter for a third dispensing period may be determined based on these comparisons.

While example embodiments of the disclosure discussed herein may describe an adjustment to the second value of the dispensing parameter during the second dispensing period to obtain the third value of the dispensing parameter for use during a third dispensing period it should be appreciated that the results of comparing usage data for the first and second dispensing periods may be used to adjust any previous dispensing parameter value associated with any previous dispensing period in order to obtain the third value of the dispensing parameter for the third dispensing period. Further as previously noted the first and second dispensing periods may not be consecutive and or may not immediately precede the third dispensing period but rather may represent any two historical dispensing periods. As such the first and second dispensing parameter values and the corresponding accumulated usage values may represent stored historical values corresponding to any prior dispensing periods.

In certain example embodiments the first and second dispensing periods may be chosen based on user consumption patterns. For example the first and second dispensing periods may represent non consecutive dispensing periods that occur during approximately the same time of day on different days. As an example user traffic patterns for an airport restroom may be starkly different Monday morning at 8 AM as compared to Wednesday evening at 8 PM. In such an example first and second dispensing periods that occur Monday mornings on different weeks may be the most appropriate dispensing periods to select for comparison of usage data to obtain a third dispensing parameter value for a third dispensing period occurring Monday morning of some subsequent week. In other example embodiments the first and second values of the dispensing parameter and the corresponding accumulated values may not correspond to particular first and second dispensing periods but may instead represent average values for any number of prior dispensing periods mode values across any number of prior dispensing periods median values across any number of dispensing periods or the like. In certain example embodiments dispensing data for other product dispensers e.g. dispensing parameter values accumulated values etc. may be used to optimize a dispensing parameter value for a product dispenser.

In yet further example embodiments different datasets of dispensing data may be maintained and independently optimized based for example on different user consumption patterns. For example a first product dispenser may be located in a high traffic area that experiences steady user traffic throughout the day whereas a second product dispenser may be located in an area that experiences relatively low user traffic throughout the day except for limited spikes in user activity e.g. in the morning during lunchtime etc. . For the second product dispenser a first dataset may be maintained for dispensing periods that coincide with the spikes in user activity and a second dataset may be maintained for dispensing periods that coincide with the low levels of user activity where the first dataset includes dispensing parameter values that are optimized independently of dispensing parameter values included in the second dataset.

Other example scenarios in which separate datasets of dispensing parameter values may be maintained and independently optimized may involve differences in characteristics of users during different dispensing periods. For example users of a product dispenser located in a primary school may be more likely to be adults e.g. visitors staff etc. during class hours whereas users between class hours may be more likely to be children. Adults and children may exhibit different use characteristics. For example children may generally consume less product due to the smaller size of their hands. As another example adults may have more of an incentive to minimize product consumption based on a desire to conserve and prevent waste. As such an optimization process described herein may optimize a dispensing parameter value for a dispensing period during class hours based on a first dataset of dispensing parameter values for dispensing periods that coincide with class hour time periods and may optimize the dispensing parameter value for a dispensing period between class hours based on a second dataset of dispensing parameter values for dispensing periods that coincide with time periods between class hours. It should be appreciated that the above examples are merely illustrative and not exhaustive.

Referring again to example embodiments in which the second dispensing parameter value is adjusted to obtain the third dispensing parameter value if the second dispensing parameter value is less than the first dispensing parameter value and the aggregate usage per user for the second dispensing period is less than the aggregate usage per user for the first dispensing period the second dispensing parameter value may be decreased to obtain the third dispensing parameter value. The decrease in the second dispensing parameter value to obtain the third dispensing parameter value may be based on i the fact that a decrease in the dispensing parameter value from the first dispensing period to the second dispensing period resulted in a decreased overall usage per user for the second dispensing period as compared to the first dispensing period and ii an assumption that a further decrease in the dispensing parameter value may result in a further decrease in the overall usage per user for the third dispensing period.

On the other hand if the second dispensing parameter value is less than the first dispensing parameter value and the aggregate usage per user for the second dispensing period is greater than the aggregate usage per user for the first dispensing period the second dispensing parameter value may be increased to obtain the third dispensing parameter value. The increase in the second dispensing parameter value to obtain the third dispensing parameter value may be based on i the fact that a decrease in the dispensing parameter value from the first dispensing period to the second dispensing period resulted in an increased overall usage per user for the second dispensing period as compared to the first dispensing period and ii an assumption that an increase in the second dispensing parameter value may result in a decrease in the overall usage per user for the third dispensing period as compared to the second dispensing period. In this scenario the dispensing parameter may be increased to a third value that is greater than the second dispensing parameter value but less than the first dispensing parameter value based on an assumption that an intermediate value between the first dispensing parameter value and the second dispensing parameter value may result in reduced overall usage per user for the third dispensing period as compared to the first dispensing period. For example to obtain the third dispensing parameter value the second dispensing parameter value may be increased to a value that is more than half way between the second dispensing parameter value and the first dispensing parameter value. In certain example embodiments however the second dispensing parameter value may be increased to a value that is equal to or greater than the first dispensing parameter value in order to obtain the third dispensing parameter value. This may occur for example if the first dispensing period is the initial dispensing period or a relatively early dispensing period in the optimization process. This may also occur if the incremental amount by which the dispensing parameter value is adjusted is small enough to not in and of itself cause a significant disturbance to user behavior.

In other scenarios the second dispensing parameter value may be greater than the first dispensing parameter value. In such scenarios if the aggregate usage per user during the second dispensing period increased as compared to the aggregate usage per user during the first dispensing period the second dispensing parameter value may be decreased to obtain the third dispensing parameter value. The decrease in the second dispensing parameter value to obtain the third dispensing parameter value may be based on i the fact that an increase in the dispensing parameter value from the first dispensing period to the second dispensing period resulted in an increased overall usage per user for the second dispensing period as compared to the first dispensing period and ii an assumption that a decrease in the dispensing parameter value may result in a decrease in the overall usage per user for the third dispensing period as compared to the second dispensing period. In this scenario the dispensing parameter may be decreased to a third value that is less than the second dispensing parameter value but greater than the first dispensing parameter value based on an assumption that an intermediate value between the first dispensing parameter value and the second dispensing parameter value may result in reduced overall usage per user for the third dispensing period as compared to the first dispensing period. In certain example embodiments however the third dispensing parameter value may be equal to or less than the first dispensing parameter value. This may occur if for example the first dispensing period is the initial dispensing period or a relatively early dispensing period in the optimization process. This may also occur as similarly noted above if the incremental amount by which the dispensing parameter value is adjusted is small enough to not in and of itself cause a significant disturbance to user behavior.

If on the other hand the second dispensing parameter value is greater than the first dispensing parameter value and the aggregate usage per user during the second dispensing period decreased as compared to the aggregate usage per user during the first dispensing period the second dispensing parameter value may be increased to obtain the third dispensing parameter value. The increase in the second dispensing parameter value to obtain the third dispensing parameter value may be based on i the fact that an increase in the dispensing parameter value from the first dispensing period to the second dispensing period resulted in a decreased overall usage per user for the second dispensing period as compared to the first dispensing period and ii an assumption that a further increase in the dispensing parameter value may result in a further decrease in the overall usage per user for the third dispensing period as compared to the first dispensing period.

The various relationships that may exist between the first dispensing parameter value and the second dispensing parameter value and the various relationships that may exist between the aggregate usage per user for the first dispensing period and the aggregate usage per user for the second dispensing period as well as the corresponding adjustments that may be made to the second dispensing parameter value to obtain the third dispensing parameter value are shown in the table on the following page.

After determining the appropriate adjustment to be made to the second dispensing parameter value to obtain the third dispensing parameter value dispensing cycles that occur during the third dispensing period may utilize the third dispensing parameter value. Upon completion of the third dispensing period a similar process to that described above may be performed to determine the nature of the adjustment to be made to the third dispensing parameter value or some other dispensing parameter value associated with some other previous dispensing period to obtain a fourth dispensing value for a fourth dispensing period that succeeds the third dispensing period. The process may then be repeated iteratively in perpetuity or alternatively for any number of dispensing periods until an optimized value or optimized range of values for the dispensing parameter is reached. In certain example embodiments the optimization process may be repeated until a difference in aggregate usage per user between successive dispensing periods is within a predetermined threshold. In other example embodiments the dispensing parameter value may be iteratively adjusted until no change in the aggregate usage per user is observed for some threshold number of iterations. In other example embodiments the dispensing parameter value may be iteratively adjusted as long as the dispenser is operational.

The amount by which the value of the dispensing parameter for a current dispensing period may be adjusted to obtain a value of the dispensing parameter for a successive dispensing period may depend on the number of iterations of the optimization process that have been performed. For example during early iterations in the optimization process the dispensing parameter value may be adjusted in larger increments from one dispensing period to the next dispensing period as compared to later iterations in the optimization process. Referring solely for explanatory purposes to an example embodiment in which the dispensing parameter is dispense duration if we assume that the initial value of the dispensing parameter for the first dispensing period is 5 seconds where the first dispensing period represents the initial dispensing period at a starting point of the optimization process and the dispense duration is decremented to 4 seconds for the second dispensing period based for example on a default setting and we further assume that the aggregate usage per user during the second dispensing period is less than the aggregate usage per user during the first dispensing period then the second dispensing parameter value may be further decremented by 1 second to obtain a third dispensing parameter value of 3 seconds for a third dispensing period. If the aggregate usage per user decreases for the third dispensing period as well and as long as the aggregate usage per user continues to decrease for subsequent dispensing periods the dispensing parameter value may be adjusted by the same incremental amount. When however the aggregate usage per user actually increases during a particular dispensing period as compared to a previous e.g. immediately preceding dispensing period the value of the dispensing parameter for the particular dispensing period may be increased by a smaller amount e.g. less than 1 second to obtain the dispensing parameter value for the next dispensing period. The optimization process may continue in this manner such that each time the aggregate usage per user increases for a given dispensing period as compared to a previous dispensing period the dispensing parameter value is adjusted by a smaller increment for a subsequent dispensing period. In this manner an optimized dispensing parameter value or an optimized range of dispensing parameter values may be obtained.

In one or more alternative example embodiments the amount by which the value of the dispensing parameter is adjusted from one dispensing period to the next may be constant. This would allow meaningful adjustments to be made to the dispensing parameter value even after numerous dispensing periods in the event that a significant change to user behavior or other dispensing conditions occurs. For example after the optimization process has achieved an optimized value for a dispensing parameter a different type of sheet product roll having different absorbency properties than previous rolls may be installed in a product dispenser. Due to its different absorbency properties a different optimized value of the dispensing parameter may be associated with the different type of sheet product roll. Accordingly in such example scenarios more substantial adjustments to the value of the dispensing parameter e.g. incrementing or decrementing by a constant value may need to be made as part of the optimization process even if the dispensing parameter value had been previously optimized under different conditions. An additional example relating to decreasing battery voltage over time is described later in this disclosure.

It should be appreciated that in certain example embodiments certain dispensing parameters may be susceptible to more granular adjustment than other dispensing parameters. For example it may be possible to adjust e.g. increase or decrease a dispense duration by X milliseconds. However a sheet length for example may be adjustable in less granular increments decrements such as 1 inch depending upon hardware software firmware and or other specifications or configurations of a product dispenser. Further in certain example embodiments a particular dispensing parameter may serve to accomplish the same result as another dispensing parameter. For example using dispense duration as a dispensing parameter and optimizing a dispense duration may serve to optimize a sheet length dispensing parameter because the objective of optimizing either dispensing parameter may be to reduce aggregate usage per user. If dispensing duration is used as a dispensing parameter changes in voltage from a power source e.g. a decrease in battery voltage may cause a lesser amount of product to be dispensed over time for a given dispensing duration. However if the reduction in the amount of product dispensed were to cause the aggregate usage per user to increase iterations of the optimization process would result in an adjustment to the dispensing parameter that increases the dispense duration in order to once again arrive at an optimum value or range of values for the dispensing duration.

In certain example embodiments any number of different dispensing parameters that serve as proxies for a product amount may be optimized. Such dispensing parameters that may operate as proxies for a product amount include but are not limited to product sheet length product volume dispense duration soap concentration product weight product area wet wipe moisture concentration or the like. For certain dispensing parameter proxies e.g. product sheet length the correlation between the dispensing parameter proxy and product amount may remain relatively constant through the life cycle of the product dispenser while for other dispensing parameter proxies e.g. dispense duration the correlation may change over time. However as described above with respect to dispense duration optimization processes described herein may be used to optimize the dispensing parameter proxy and thus product amount despite changes in the correlation between the dispensing parameter proxy and product amount.

In certain example embodiments an adjustment in the first dispensing parameter value to obtain the second dispensing parameter value may result in no change in the aggregate usage per user. In such example embodiments the second dispensing parameter value may nonetheless be increased or decreased to obtain a third dispensing parameter value for a third dispensing period subsequent to the second dispensing period. For example in those example embodiments in which the aggregate usage per user is unchanged from the first dispensing period to the second dispensing period the direction in which the second dispensing parameter value is adjusted e.g. whether the second dispensing parameter value is increased or decreased to obtain the third dispensing parameter value may be the same as a direction in which the first dispensing parameter value was adjusted to obtain the second dispensing parameter value. For example if the first dispensing parameter value was increased to obtain the second dispensing parameter value then the second dispensing parameter value may be increased to obtain the third dispensing parameter value despite the lack of change in aggregate usage per user from the first dispensing period to the second dispensing period. Based on similar algorithmic logic if the first dispensing parameter value was decreased to obtain the second dispensing parameter value then the second dispensing parameter value may be decreased to obtain the third dispensing parameter value despite the lack of change in aggregate usage per user from the first dispensing period to the second dispensing period.

More specifically assuming that the first dispensing period is not the initial dispensing period the first dispensing parameter value may have been increased to obtain the second dispensing parameter value in either of two scenarios 1 a scenario in which a prior dispensing value for a dispensing period prior to the first dispensing period was decreased to obtain the first dispensing parameter value and this resulted in an increase in aggregate usage per user for the first dispensing period or 2 a scenario in which the prior dispensing value for the prior dispensing period was increased to obtain the first dispensing parameter value and this resulted in a decrease in the aggregate usage per user for the first dispensing period. Similarly the first dispensing parameter value may have been decreased to obtain the second dispensing parameter value in either of two scenarios 1 a scenario in which the prior dispensing value was increased to obtain the first dispensing parameter value and this resulted in an increase in aggregate usage per user for the first dispensing period or 2 a scenario in which the prior dispensing value for the prior dispensing period was decreased to obtain the first dispensing parameter value and this resulted in a decrease in the aggregate usage per user for the first dispensing period. In any of these scenarios if the increase or decrease in the first dispensing parameter value to obtain the second dispensing parameter value results in no change in the aggregate usage per user then the second dispensing parameter value may be adjusted to obtain the third dispensing parameter value in the same direction as the adjustment to the first dispensing parameter value to obtain the second dispensing parameter value.

The example dispensing parameter of dispense duration will now be used to explain the algorithmic logic described above. Assume that the prior dispensing parameter value is 3 seconds and that this value was decreased to 2 seconds to obtain the first dispensing parameter value. If this resulted in an increase in aggregate usage per user it may indicate that the increase in the amount of product used as a result of one or more users requesting multiple dispenses at the 2 second dispense duration who would not have requested multiple dispenses at the 3 second dispense duration exceeds the reduction in the amount of product used by other users as a result of the decrease in the dispense duration from 3 seconds to 2 seconds. As such the first dispensing parameter value of 2 seconds may be increased to for example 2.5 seconds for the second dispensing parameter value. If this increase results in no change in the aggregate usage per user it may be assumed that a further increase in the dispense duration may cause a decrease in aggregate usage per user since aggregate usage per user was less with a 3 second dispense duration than with either a 2 second dispense duration or a 2.5 second dispense duration. As such the second dispensing parameter value of 2.5 seconds may be increased to obtain the third dispensing parameter value. Thus the direction of the adjustment of the second dispensing parameter value to obtain the third dispensing parameter value may be the same as the direction of the adjustment of the prior dispensing parameter value to obtain the first dispensing parameter value despite a lack of change in aggregate usage per user between the first dispensing period and the second dispensing period. Similar algorithmic logic may be applied to the other scenarios described above.

While example embodiments of the disclosure may be described herein in connection with storing an accumulated aggregate dispensing parameter value for a dispensing period in a first counter storing a number of unique users during the dispensing period in a second counter and determining a usage rate for the dispensing period as a ratio the first counter to the second counter it should be appreciated that the usage rate for a dispensing period may be determined in a variety of alternative ways without departing from the scope of the disclosure. For example in certain example embodiments a running average or the like of the usage rate may be maintained throughout the dispensing period without explicitly maintaining the accumulated aggregate value of a dispensing parameter in a first counter and or the number of unique users in a second counter. The running average may be updated as each dispensing cycle of the dispensing period occurs. In addition while in certain example embodiments a set value of the dispensing parameter may be used to adjust the accumulated value or the running average with each dispensing cycle in other example embodiments a measured value of the dispensing parameter may be used. It should further be appreciated that the terms accumulated and aggregate may be used interchangeably herein.

Referring now to other aspects of example optimization processes described herein a counter of the estimated number of unique users may be maintained for each dispensing period as previously described. For example a predetermined period of time may be used to distinguish dispenses received by a same user from dispenses received by different users. More specifically two dispenses that occur more than a threshold period of time apart from one another may be assumed to have been dispensed to different users while a dispense that occurred within the threshold period of time from another dispense may be assumed to have been dispensed to the same user.

Occurrence of a dispense may refer to a time at which a dispense signal was generated a time at which an actuation signal for actuating a dispensing mechanism is generated by a controller or received by the dispensing mechanism a time at which a dispensing cycle is initiated a time at which a dispensing cycle is completed or any time during a dispensing cycle. More specifically the threshold period of time between dispenses may be determined in a variety of ways. For example the threshold period of time may be a time period between i generation of a first actuation signal by the controller or receipt of the first actuation signal by the dispensing mechanism and ii generation of a second subsequent actuation signal by the controller or receipt of the second actuation signal by the dispensing mechanism. Alternatively the threshold period of time for distinguishing dispenses that occur to a same user or different users may be a time period between receipt of a first signal from a user sensor or a tear sensor and receipt of a second subsequent signal from the user sensor or tear sensor. In still other example embodiments the threshold period of time may be a time period between completion of a first dispensing cycle e.g. completion of a first motor run and receipt or generation of a user sensor signal tear sensor signal or actuation signal or initiation of a second motor run corresponding to a second subsequent dispensing cycle. Thus the threshold period of time may be measured between the occurrence detection of like events e.g. successive activations of a tear sensor of a product dispenser or disparate events e.g. a first activation of a tear sensor and generation of an actuation signal in connection with a subsequent activation of the tear sensor . Further while a period of time of 10 seconds may be described herein as the predetermined period of time solely for ease of explanation this should not be deemed limiting in any way. Rather the predetermined period of time used to determine whether multiple dispenses should be attributed to the same user or different users may be any suitable period of time e.g. 6 seconds 8 seconds 12 seconds etc. . In particular as will be described in more detail later in this disclosure the predetermined period of time may be chosen to be a time period that corresponds to a minimum desired confidence factor. For example a shorter predetermined period of time may be chosen as the number of estimated users per hour increases. Alternatively as will be described in more detail later in this disclosure the predetermined period of time may be constant and the confidence factor may be updated as traffic patterns and usage change.

In certain example embodiments of the disclosure estimating a number of unique users based solely on whether dispenses occurred within or outside of a predetermined period of time may result in inaccurate estimates. For example the possibility exists that two users may each request a product within the 10 seconds of each other. This possibility becomes increasing more likely as user traffic increases and more individuals approach a product dispenser within 10 seconds of each user. Thus as user traffic increases the capability to distinguish a number of unique users diminishes resulting in increasingly inaccurate aggregate usage per user calculations. This in turn compromises the ability to arrive at an optimized value for a dispensing parameter.

In order to counteract the effects of increased user traffic noted above the estimate of the number of users may be statistically refined for any given dispensing period. A confidence factor may be determined for a given set of usage data. In certain example embodiments the usage data may be simulated usage data. As previously mentioned the confidence factor may represent an approximate probability that two dispenses that occurred within the threshold period of time were to the same user. The confidence factor may be determined using any suitable statistical approach. An example statistical approach will be described in more detail in reference to later in this disclosure. In certain example embodiments the confidence factor may be determined as a function of an estimated number of unique users over some period of time e.g. an hour .

It should be appreciated that in certain example embodiments the amount of time required to complete a dispensing cycle may represent a floor for the threshold period of time used to distinguish dispenses occurring to the same user from dispenses occurring to different users. For example in the case of a hang mode product dispenser upon activation of the tear sensor a certain period of time e.g. 4 6 seconds may be required for the tear sensor to signal the controller the controller to generate an actuation signal to actuate the dispensing mechanism and the dispensing mechanism to dispense an amount of product. Accordingly any threshold period of time used to distinguish dispenses occurring to the same user or different users may need to account for this minimum period of time required to complete a dispensing cycle in order to yield a suitable estimate for the number of unique users that receive dispenses. The threshold period of time may be chosen to account for other factors as well such as for example variance in user behavior user traffic patterns and so forth. For example users may vary in the amount of time taken between triggering multiple dispenses user traffic may affect the amount of time needed for a user to leave the vicinity of the dispenser and another user to approach the vicinity of the dispenser and so forth.

In certain example embodiments an initial estimate of the number of unique users over a period of time e.g. over the course of a dispensing period may be determined. More specifically a first number of dispenses each of which did not occur within for example 10 seconds of any other dispense may be determined. The first number of dispenses may equal a first estimated number of unique users. A second number of dispenses may then be determined. Each dispense in the second number of dispenses may have occurred within for example 10 seconds of at least one other dispense in the second number of dispenses. The second number of dispenses may then be divided by two to obtain a second estimated number of unique users based on the assumption that each pair of dispenses that occurred within 10 seconds of one another were received by the same user . The first estimated number of unique users and the second estimated number of unique users may then be summed to obtain a first total estimated number of unique users.

A confidence factor may then be determined for the first total estimated number of unique users. Using the confidence factor a first statistical number of unique users each of whom is statistically assumed to have received two dispenses within 10 seconds of each other may be determined. The first statistical number of unique users may be determined by multiplying the second number of dispenses by the confidence factor and dividing the result by two. A second statistical number of unique users each of whom is statistically determined to have received a dispense more than 10 seconds apart from any other dispense may then be determined. The second statistical number of unique users may be determined by subtracting the first statistical number of unique users from the second estimated number of unique users. The first estimated number of unique users the first statistical number of unique users and the second statistical number of unique users may then be summed to obtain a second total estimated number of unique users.

The second total estimated number of unique users may then be compared to the first total estimated number of unique users. If the difference between the first total and the second total is non zero the process described above may be repeated. More specifically a new confidence factor may be determined based on the second total estimated number of unique users and the process described above may be repeated using the second confidence factor to obtain a third total estimated number of unique users. The process may be iteratively performed to refine the estimate of the number of actual unique users until the statistical estimate is unchanged from one iteration to the next or within some threshold difference. In general the lower the amount of user traffic e.g. number of users per hour the fewer number of iterations that may be required to obtain a statistically improved estimate of the number of unique users. A more accurate estimate of the number of unique users may in turn improve the accuracy of the aggregate usage per user calculations for dispensing periods and thus the accuracy of the optimized dispensing parameter value or the optimized range of dispensing parameter values.

In one or more other example embodiments of the disclosure a capability of a user sensor to distinguish between genuine and false triggering events may be optimized. A user sensor may detect a triggering event and generate a dispense signal. In response to receipt of the dispense signal a controller may determine one or more characteristics of the dispense signal. A characteristic of a dispense signal may include without limitation an amplitude of the dispense signal a frequency of the dispense signal a waveform of the dispense signal or the like. The controller may then access a sensor profile associated with the user sensor to determine based at least in part on the sensor profile whether the characteristic s of the dispense signal are within a specified tolerance of signal characteristic s identified in the sensor profile. In certain example embodiments this may include determining that the sensor profile includes or is otherwise associated with a second signal characteristic that matches a first signal characteristic of the dispense signal within a specified tolerance determining a probability that the second signal characteristic is indicative of a genuine user initiated triggering event and further determining that the probability meets or exceeds a threshold probability value. For example if the first signal characteristic of the dispense signal is an amplitude of the dispense signal the second signal characteristic may be an amplitude of a previously received dispense signal. If the two amplitudes are within a threshold value of one another and if a probability that the amplitude of the previously received dispense signal is indicative of a genuine user initiated triggering event meets or exceeds a threshold probability value e.g. greater than or equal to 75 it may be determined that a dispensing cycle should be initiated in response to the current dispense signal. On the other hand if the first signal characteristic of the current dispense signal matches a second signal characteristic associated with the sensor profile within a specified tolerance and if a probability that the second signal characteristic is indicative of genuine user initiated triggering event is below the specified threshold probability value that dispensing cycle may not be initiated in response to the current dispense signal because it may be determined that the current dispense signal is unlikely to be indicative of a genuine user initiated triggering event and a dispensing cycle may not be initiated. It should be appreciated that a probability that a dispense signal is indicative of a false trigger may be evaluated with respect to a corresponding threshold probability value in addition to or in lieu of a probability that the dispense signal is indicative of a genuine user trigger.

If based on an evaluation of the current dispense signal with respect to the sensor profile it is determined that the probability that the current dispense signal is indicative of a genuine user triggering event meets or exceeds a specified threshold probability value the controller may generate an actuation signal to cause a dispensing mechanism of the product dispenser to dispense an amount of product. A time that elapses between receipt of the dispense signal or generation of the actuation signal or completion of the dispensing cycle and receipt of an indication that the product has been used or retrieved may then be determined. For example if the product dispenser dispenses towel retrieval of the dispensed product may be determined based on activation of a tear sensor. As another example if the product dispenser dispenses solids liquids gases or a mixed phase product such as an aerosol foam gel or the like for example a soap product use retrieval of the dispensed product may be determined based upon deactivation of a sensor such as a user request sensor that detects a user s hand that would receive soap in a particular location relative to the dispenser.

If the elapsed time is within a predetermined threshold range of time the controller may determine that the dispense signal was indicative of a genuine user initiated triggering event in which case the sensor profile may be modified to indicate an increased likelihood e.g. an increased probability that characteristic s of the dispense signal are indicative of a genuine trigger. If on the other hand the elapsed time is not within the predetermined threshold range of time that is that an indication of use retrieval of the dispensed product was not received within the threshold range of time from a time corresponding to receipt of the dispense signal generation of the actuation signal initiation of the dispensing cycle or completion of the dispensing cycle then the sensor profile may be modified to indicate a decreased likelihood e.g. a decreased probability that the characteristic s of the dispense signal are indicative of a genuine user trigger and therefore an increased likelihood e.g. an increased probability that the characteristics s of the dispense signal are indicative of a false trigger. In an example embodiment involving a towel dispenser if an elapsed time between receipt of the dispense signal and receipt of a tear sensor activation signal is within a predetermined threshold range of time e.g. 0 to 4 seconds this may constitute evidence of typical user behavior and may indicate that the dispense signal was characteristic of a genuine user request for product. As such the sensor profile may be modified to indicate an increased likelihood that characteristic s of the dispense signal are indicative of a genuine trigger. If on the other hand an elapsed time between receipt of the dispense signal and receipt of a tear sensor activation signal is not within a predetermined threshold range of time e.g. 0 to 4 seconds this may constitute evidence contrary to genuine user behavior and may indicate that the dispense signal was not characteristic of a genuine user request for product. As such the sensor profile may be modified to indicate a decreased likelihood that characteristic s of the dispense signal are indicative of a genuine trigger.

Along similar lines in an example embodiment involving a soap dispenser if an elapsed time of continuous receipt of the dispense signal which may constitute evidence of the presence of a user s hand is within a predetermined threshold range of time e.g. 1 to 2 seconds this may constitute evidence of typical user behavior and may indicate that the dispense signal was characteristic of a genuine user request for product. As such the sensor profile may be modified to indicate an increased likelihood that characteristic s of the dispense signal are indicative of a genuine trigger. If on the other hand an elapsed time of continuous receipt of the dispense signal is not within a predetermined threshold range of time e.g. 1 to 2 seconds this may constitute evidence that the dispense signal was not characteristic of a genuine user request for product. As such the sensor profile may be modified to indicate a decreased likelihood that characteristic s of the dispense signal are indicative of a genuine trigger. The above process may continue iteratively such that the sensor profile is refined over time to more accurately distinguish dispense signals indicative of genuine user triggers from dispense signals indicative of false triggers.

Example embodiments of the disclosure provide a number of technical features or technical effects. For example in accordance with example embodiments of the disclosure a dispensing parameter value may be optimized to achieve a desired performance outcome e.g. minimized product usage maximized user sensor reliability etc. in an automated fashion that accounts for fluctuations in user traffic user behavior or the like and that does not require manual user adjustment of the dispensing parameter. It should be appreciated that the above examples of technical features and or technical effects of example embodiments of the disclosure are merely illustrative and not exhaustive.

One or more illustrative embodiments of the disclosure have been described above. The above described embodiments are merely illustrative of the scope of this disclosure and are not intended to be limiting in any way. Accordingly variations modifications and equivalents of embodiments disclosed herein are also within the scope of this disclosure. The above described embodiments and additional and or alternative embodiments of the disclosure will be described in detail hereinafter through reference to the accompanying drawings.

In an illustrative configuration the product dispenser may include one or more controllers one or more memory devices generically referred to herein as memory one or more input output I O interface s one or more network interfaces one or more sensors or sensor interfaces one or more transceivers and data storage . The product dispenser may further include one or more buses that functionally couple various components of the product dispenser . The product dispenser may further include one or more antennas that may include without limitation a cellular antenna for transmitting or receiving signals to from a cellular network infrastructure an antenna for transmitting or receiving Wi Fi signals to from an access point AP a Global Navigation Satellite System GNSS antenna for receiving GNSS signals from a GNSS satellite a Bluetooth antenna for transmitting or receiving Bluetooth signals a Near Field Communication NFC antenna for transmitting or receiving NFC signals and so forth. These various components will be described in more detail hereinafter.

The bus es may include at least one of a system bus a memory bus an address bus or a message bus and may permit exchange of information e.g. data including computer executable code signaling etc. between various components of the product dispenser . The bus es may include without limitation a memory bus or a memory controller a peripheral bus an accelerated graphics port and so forth. The bus es may be associated with any suitable bus architecture including without limitation an Industry Standard Architecture ISA a Micro Channel Architecture MCA an Enhanced ISA EISA a Video Electronics Standards Association VESA architecture an Accelerated Graphics Port AGP architecture a Peripheral Component Interconnects PCI architecture a PCI Express architecture a Personal Computer Memory Card International Association PCMCIA architecture a Universal Serial Bus USB architecture and so forth.

The memory of the product dispenser may include volatile memory memory that maintains its state when supplied with power such as random access memory RAM and or non volatile memory memory that maintains its state even when not supplied with power such as read only memory ROM flash memory ferroelectric RAM FRAM and so forth. In certain example embodiments volatile memory may enable faster read write access than non volatile memory. However in certain other example embodiments certain types of non volatile memory e.g. FRAM may enable faster read write access than certain types of volatile memory.

In various implementations the memory may include multiple different types of memory such as various types of static random access memory SRAM various types of dynamic random access memory DRAM various types of unalterable ROM and or writeable variants of ROM such as electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM flash memory and so forth. The memory may include main memory as well as various forms of cache memory such as instruction cache s data cache s translation lookaside buffer s TLBs and so forth. Further cache memory such as a data cache may be a multi level cache organized as a hierarchy of one or more cache levels L1 L2 etc. .

The data storage may include removable storage and or non removable storage including but not limited to magnetic storage optical disk storage and or tape storage. The data storage may provide non volatile storage of computer executable instructions and other data. The memory and the data storage removable and or non removable are examples of computer readable storage media CRSM as that term is used herein.

The data storage may store computer executable code instructions or the like that may be loadable into the memory and executable by the controller s to cause the controller s to perform or initiate various operations. The data storage may additionally store data that may be copied to memory for use by the controller s during the execution of the computer executable instructions. Moreover output data generated as a result of execution of the computer executable instructions by the controller s may be stored initially in memory and may ultimately be copied to data storage for non volatile storage.

More specifically the data storage may store one or more program modules applications or the like such as for example one or more dispensing parameter optimization modules which in turn may include one or more sub modules such as for example one or more dispensing parameter value adjustment modules and one or more unique user determination modules . The data storage may further store one or more dispensing control modules . The data storage may additionally store any of a variety of other types of modules such as for example one or more application modules associated with one or more applications executable on the product dispenser . It should be appreciated that in various example embodiments the data storage may not be provided and any program modules or other data depicted or described as being potentially stored in the data storage may be stored in the memory e.g. non volatile memory instead.

Referring now to functionality supported by the various program modules depicted in the dispensing control module s may include computer executable instructions code or the like that responsive to execution by one or more of the controller s may cause an actuation signal to be generated in response to a dispense signal received from a user sensor a tear sensor or the like. The actuation signal may cause a dispensing mechanism of the product dispenser to dispense a predetermined amount of product as part of a dispensing cycle during a dispensing period. A dispensing period may include any number of dispensing cycles during which predetermined amounts of products are dispensed to users .

More specifically in certain example embodiments the actuation signal may cause a voltage to be supplied from a power source e.g. a battery not shown to actuate a motor of the dispensing mechanism to cause a predetermined amount of product from a product supply to be dispensed. The actuation signal may cause a voltage to be supplied to the motor of the dispensing mechanism for a sufficient duration to cause the motor to actuate one or more other components of the dispensing mechanism e.g. one or more rollers a pump a fan etc. to dispense a predetermined amount of product in accordance with a current value of a dispensing parameter. As previously noted the dispensing parameter may include any suitable parameter including but not limited to a dispense duration a sheet length a volume of product or the like.

The dispensing parameter optimization module s may include computer executable instructions code or the like that responsive to execution by one or more of the controller s may cause one or more iterations of a dispensing parameter value optimization process to be performed in accordance with example embodiments of the disclosure. As previously described and as will be described in more detail later in this disclosure the dispensing parameter value optimization process may include maintaining for any two dispensing periods respective first counters representing an aggregate amount of product dispensed for each dispensing period and respective second counters representing a number of unique users that received dispenses for each dispensing period and determining a relationship between the respective first counters and a relationship between the respective second counters in order to determine in accordance with algorithmic logic whether a current or some previous dispensing parameter value should be increased decreased or remain unchanged to obtain a dispensing parameter value for a subsequent dispensing period.

The dispensing parameter value adjustment module s may include computer executable instructions code or the like that responsive to execution by one or more of the controller s may cause a current value or some previous value of a dispensing parameter for a current or previous dispensing period to be increased decreased or remain unmodified based on the results of a current iteration of the dispensing parameter value optimization process in order to obtain a subsequent dispensing parameter value for a subsequent dispensing period. The dispensing parameter optimization module s may further include computer executable instructions code or the like that responsive to execution by one or more of the controller s may cause processing to be performed to optimize a capability of a user sensor of the product dispenser to distinguish between genuine and false triggers.

The unique user determination module s may include computer executable instructions code or the like that responsive to execution by one or more of the controller s may cause processing to be performed to determine a number of unique users during a dispensing period using for example a threshold period of time between dispensing cycles to determine whether any two given dispenses are attributable to the same user or different users. The unique user determination module s may further include computer executable instructions code or the like that responsive to execution by one or more of the controller s may cause processing to be performed to refine an estimate of the number of unique users for a dispensing period using a statistical process that employs a statistically determined confidence factor.

Referring now to other illustrative components of the product dispenser the controller s may be configured to access the memory and execute computer executable instructions loaded therein. For example the controller s may be configured to execute computer executable instructions of the various program modules of the product dispenser to cause or facilitate various operations to be performed in accordance with one or more embodiments of the disclosure. The controller s may include any suitable processing unit capable of accepting data as input processing the input data in accordance with stored computer executable instructions and generating output data. The controller s may include any type of suitable processing unit including but not limited to a central processing unit a microprocessor a Reduced Instruction Set Computer RISC microprocessor a Complex Instruction Set Computer CISC microprocessor a microcontroller an Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC a Field Programmable Gate Array FPGA a System on a Chip SoC a digital signal processor DSP and so forth. Further the controller s may have any suitable microarchitecture design that includes any number of constituent components such as for example registers multiplexers arithmetic logic units cache controllers for controlling read write operations to cache memory branch predictors or the like. The microarchitecture design of the controller s may be capable of supporting any of a variety of instruction sets.

In addition the product dispenser may include one or more input output I O interfaces that may facilitate the receipt of input information by the product dispenser from one or more I O devices as well as the output of information from the product dispenser to the one or more I O devices. The I O devices may include for example one or more user interface devices that facilitate interaction between a user and the product dispenser including but not limited to a display a keypad a pointing device a control panel a touch screen display a stylus a remote control device a microphone a speaker and so forth. The I O devices may further include for example any number of peripheral devices such as data storage devices printing devices and so forth.

The product dispenser may further include one or more network interfaces via which the product dispenser may communicate with any of a variety of other systems platforms networks devices and so forth. Such communication may occur via any of the types of networks previously described. The product dispenser may be configured to communicate via one or more networks with for example one or more back end servers . The network s may include but are not limited to any one or more different types of communications networks such as for example cable networks public networks e.g. the Internet private networks e.g. frame relay networks wireless networks cellular networks telephone networks e.g. a public switched telephone network or any other suitable private or public packet switched or circuit switched networks. Further the network s may have any suitable communication range associated therewith and may include for example global networks e.g. the Internet metropolitan area networks MANs wide area networks WANs local area networks LANs or personal area networks PANs . In addition the network s may include communication links and associated networking devices e.g. link layer switches routers etc. for transmitting network traffic over any suitable type of medium including but not limited to coaxial cable twisted pair wire e.g. twisted pair copper wire optical fiber a hybrid fiber coaxial HFC medium a microwave medium a radio frequency communication medium a satellite communication medium or any combination thereof.

In addition the product dispenser may include one or more antenna s that may include any suitable type of antenna depending for example on the communications protocols used to transmit or receive signals via the antenna s . Non limiting examples of suitable antennas may include directional antennas non directional antennas dipole antennas folded dipole antennas patch antennas multiple input multiple output MIMO antennas or the like. The antenna s may be communicatively coupled to one or more transceivers or radio components to which or from which signals may be transmitted or received.

As previously described the antenna s may include a cellular antenna configured to transmit or receive signals in accordance with established standards and protocols such as Global System for Mobile Communications GSM 3G standards e.g. Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS Wideband Code Division Multiple Access W CDMA CDMA2000 etc. 4G standards e.g. Long Term Evolution LTE WiMax etc. direct satellite communications or the like.

The antenna s may additionally or alternatively include a Wi Fi antenna configured to transmit or receive signals in accordance with established standards and protocols such as the IEEE 802.11 family of standards including via 2.4 GHz channels e.g. 802.11b 802.11g 802.11n 5 GHz channels e.g. 802.11n 802.11ac or 60 GHZ channels e.g. 802.11ad . In alternative example embodiments the antenna s may be configured to transmit or receive radio frequency signals within any suitable frequency range forming part of the unlicensed portion of the radio spectrum.

The antenna s may additionally or alternatively include a GNSS antenna configured to receive GNSS signals from three or more GNSS satellites carrying time position information to triangulate a position therefrom. Such a GNSS antenna may be configured to receive GNSS signals from any current or planned GNSS such as for example the Global Positioning System GPS the GLONASS System the Compass Navigation System the Galileo System or the Indian Regional Navigational System.

The transceiver s may include any suitable radio component s for in cooperation with the antenna s transmitting or receiving radio frequency RF signals in the bandwidth and or channels corresponding to the communications protocols utilized by the product dispenser to communicate with other devices. The transceiver s may include hardware software and or firmware for modulating transmitting or receiving potentially in cooperation with any of antenna s communications signals according to any of the communications protocols discussed above including but not limited to one or more Wi Fi and or Wi Fi direct protocols as standardized by the IEEE 802.11 standards one or more non Wi Fi protocols or one or more cellular communications protocols or standards. The transceiver s may further include hardware firmware or software for receiving GNSS signals. The transceiver s may include any known receiver and baseband suitable for communicating via the communications protocols utilized by the product dispenser . The transceiver s may further include a low noise amplifier LNA additional signal amplifiers an analog to digital A D converter one or more buffers a digital baseband or the like.

The sensor s sensor interface s may include or may be capable of interfacing with any suitable type of sensing device such as for example a sheet length sensor a tear sensor a photo sensor a radar based sensor a passive infrared sensor an active infrared sensor a capacitive sensor or any other suitable type of sensor capable of being triggered for example by the presence motion or quantity of an object.

Further although not depicted in the product dispenser may further include an operating system O S that may be loaded from the data storage into the memory and that may provide an interface between other software modules executing on the product dispenser and hardware resources of the product dispenser . More specifically the O S may include a set of computer executable instructions for managing hardware resources of the product dispenser and for providing common services to other program modules e.g. managing memory allocation among various program modules .

In addition the product dispenser may include a database management system DBMS that may be loaded into the memory from the data storage and that may support functionality for accessing retrieving storing and or manipulating data stored in the memory and or data stored in the data storage . The DBMS may be for example a light weight DBMS optimized for performance on the product dispenser . The DBMS may use any of a variety of database models e.g. relational model object model etc. and may support any of a variety of query languages. The DBMS may access data represented in one or more data schemas and stored in any suitable data repository including but not limited to one or more of the datastore s which may include databases e.g. relational object oriented etc. file systems flat files distributed datastores in which data is stored on more than one node of a computer network peer to peer network datastores or the like.

The back end server s may include any suitable computing device and may include any of the illustrative types of hardware firmware and or software components described in relation to the product dispenser . The back end server s may be configured to receive usage data for the dispenser and any number of additional dispensers analyze the usage data and generate performance data indicative of performance metrics associated with operation of the dispenser . For example the back end server s may generate performance data that indicates changes in the aggregate usage per user for the product dispenser over some period of time. The performance data may be used to evaluate the optimization process and to determine whether one or more modifications to the process e.g. modifying an incremental amount by which a dispensing parameter value is incremented or decremented from one dispensing period to the next may be needed based on user behavior trends identified from the performance data. For example if the usage data indicates increased user traffic for one or more dispensing periods the duration of a dispensing period may be shortened. As another example if the usage data indicates increased user traffic the predetermined threshold time period used to distinguish dispenses occurring to a same user or to different users may be decreased in order to maintain a desired confidence factor. It should be appreciated that the above examples are merely illustrative and not exhaustive. It should further be appreciated that any of the processing that may be performed responsive to execution of any of the program modules of the product dispenser may be performed at least in part by the back end server s . For example the back end server s and the product dispenser may execute the dispensing parameter value optimization process in a distributed fashion. Further the analysis and generation of performance data may be performed at least in part by executable logic stored on the product dispenser .

Various data that may be utilized or generated by the product dispenser and or the back end server s may be stored in the datastore s . The data may include for example counter values dispensing parameter values confidence factors and any other suitable types of data . The counter values may include respective first counter values representing aggregate usage for each of any number of dispensing periods and or respective second counter values representing an estimated number of unique users for each of any number of dispensing periods. The dispensing parameter values may include a pre programmed or manually set initial dispensing parameter value respective calculated values for each of any number of dispensing periods measured dispensing parameter values and so forth. The confidence factors may include different confidence factors calculated for different estimated numbers of unique users for any number of dispensing periods. The other data may include any other suitable data such as dispense signal characteristics a sensor profile of the product dispenser and so forth. Any of the data depicted as being stored in the datastore s may be generated by the product dispenser and or the back end server s and may be additionally or alternatively stored in the data storage and or the memory of the product dispenser and or in suitable storage media of the back end server s .

It should be appreciated that the back end server s the datastore s and the network s may be optional in certain example embodiments of the disclosure. In addition in certain example embodiments all of the algorithmic logic for performing optimization processes as described herein may reside locally on the product dispenser thereby obviating the need for the product dispenser to communicate over a network. Thus in certain example embodiments the network interface s transceiver s and antenna s may not be present.

It should be appreciated that the program modules applications computer executable instructions code data or the like depicted in as being stored in the data storage and the datastore s are merely illustrative and not exhaustive and that processing described as being supported by any particular module may alternatively be distributed across multiple modules or performed by a different module. In addition various program module s script s plug in s Application Programming Interface s API s or any other suitable computer executable code hosted locally on the product dispenser on the back end server s and or hosted on other computing device s accessible via one or more of the network s may be provided to support functionality provided by the program modules applications or computer executable code depicted in and or additional or alternate functionality. Further functionality may be modularized differently such that processing described as being supported collectively by the collection of program modules depicted in may be performed by a fewer or greater number of modules or functionality described as being supported by any particular module may be supported at least in part by another module. In addition program modules that support the functionality described herein may form part of one or more applications executable across any number of systems or devices in accordance with any suitable computing model such as for example a client server model a peer to peer model and so forth. In addition any of the functionality described as being supported by any of the program modules depicted in may be implemented at least partially in hardware and or firmware across any number of devices.

It should further be appreciated that any of the components of the networked architecture may include alternate and or additional hardware software or firmware components beyond those described or depicted without departing from the scope of the disclosure. More particularly it should be appreciated that software firmware or hardware components depicted as forming part of the product dispenser are merely illustrative and that some components may not be present or additional components may be provided in various embodiments. While various illustrative program modules have been depicted and described as software modules stored in data storage it should be appreciated that functionality described as being supported by the program modules may be enabled by any combination of hardware software and or firmware. It should further be appreciated that each of the above mentioned modules may in various embodiments represent a logical partitioning of supported functionality. This logical partitioning is depicted for ease of explanation of the functionality and may not be representative of the structure of software hardware and or firmware for implementing the functionality. Accordingly it should be appreciated that functionality described as being provided by a particular module may in various embodiments be provided at least in part by one or more other modules. Further one or more depicted modules may not be present in certain embodiments while in other embodiments additional modules not depicted may be present and may support at least a portion of the described functionality and or additional functionality. Moreover while certain modules may be depicted and described as sub modules of another module in certain embodiments such modules may be provided as independent modules or as sub modules of other modules.

At block computer executable instructions of the dispensing parameter optimization module s may be executed to initialize a first counter and a second counter to zero. In the context of method the first counter may be used to maintain a running count of an accumulated aggregate value of a dispensing parameter during an initial dispensing period. For example the first counter may represent at any given point during the initial dispensing period an aggregate amount of sheet product that has dispensed during the initial dispensing period up until that point. As another example the first counter may represent a running count of an aggregate dispense duration for dispenses that have occurred during the initial dispensing period.

At block computer executable instructions of the dispensing control module s may be executed to determine whether a dispense signal has been generated by received from a sensor of the product dispenser . If no dispense signal is detected the determination at block may be performed iteratively until a dispense signal is detected. On the other hand if a dispense signal is detected the controller s may execute computer executable instructions of the dispensing control module s at block to generate an actuation signal and communicate the actuation signal to the dispensing mechanism of the product dispenser to cause the dispensing mechanism to dispense an amount of a product from the product supply . The product may be dispensed in accordance with an initial value of the dispensing parameter for the initial dispensing period. As previously noted the dispensing parameter may be a dispense duration a sheet product length a volume of product or any other suitable dispensing parameter. In an example embodiment the initial value of the dispensing parameter may be a pre programmed value or a value that is manually set using a physical button or switch or via user interaction with a user interface e.g. a touch screen interface of the product dispenser .

At block computer executable instructions of the dispensing parameter optimization module s may be executed to increment the first counter by the initial value of the dispensing parameter. In certain example embodiments rather than incrementing the first counter by the initial pre programmed or preset initial value the first counter may be incremented by a measured value of the dispensing parameter if for example the measured value deviates from the initial value because a user prematurely halted the dispensing cycle.

At block computer executable instructions of the unique user determination module s may be executed to determine whether the dispense is attributable to a new user or the same user. For example the unique user determination module s may determine that the dispense is attributable to a different user than a user with whom the preceding dispense is associated if a time associated with the dispensing cycle occurred more than a threshold period of time apart from a time associated with the preceding dispensing cycle. Conversely the unique user determination module s may determine that the dispense is attributable to the same user as the previous dispense if a time associated with the dispensing cycle occurred within the predetermined period of time of a time associated with the preceding dispensing cycle.

In response to an affirmative determination at block computer executable instructions of the unique user determination module s may be executed at block to increment the second counter by one. In the context of method the second counter may maintain a running count of the number of unique users to whom product has been dispensed up until a given point during the initial dispensing period. The method may then proceed to block . On the other hand in response to a negative determination at block the method may proceed directly to block without incrementing the second counter. As will be described in more detail later in reference to the estimate of the number of unique users that used the dispenser during a dispensing period may be refined through the use of a confidence factor in order to arrive at a more accurate estimate of the actual number of users.

At block computer executable instructions of the dispensing parameter optimization module s may be executed to determine whether a threshold condition is met for adjusting the initial value of the dispensing parameter. In the context of method the threshold condition may be a condition that signals the end of the initial dispensing period such as for example a threshold number of dispensing cycles being reached during the initial dispensing period a threshold number of unique users to whom product has been dispensed during the initial dispensing period a threshold period of time having elapsed during the initial dispensing period and so forth.

In response to a negative determination at block the method may return to block and may be performed iteratively for each subsequent dispense request. On the other hand in response to an affirmative determination at block computer executable instructions of the dispensing parameter value adjustment module s may be executed at block to increase or decrease the initial dispensing parameter value to obtain a second value of the dispensing parameter for a second dispensing period that follows the initial dispensing period. In certain example embodiments the initial value of the dispensing parameter may be decreased to obtain the second value of the dispensing parameter based on a default assumption that a reduction in the amount of product dispensed per dispensing cycle may result in a reduced overall usage per user for a dispensing period. For example if an initial sheet length of 10 inches is dispensed for each dispensing cycle during the initial dispensing period the sheet length may be reduced to 9 inches for the subsequent second dispensing period.

At block computer executable instructions of the dispensing parameter optimization module s may be executed to store the final values of the first and second counters for the initial dispensing period. From block the method may be initiated in connection with a second dispensing period that follows the initial dispensing period. Alternatively the method may be initiated in connection with any given dispensing period corresponding to operation of a product dispenser.

At block computer executable instructions of the dispensing parameter optimization module s may be executed to initialize a first counter and a second counter to zero. The operations at block need not be performed if separate sets of first and second counters are maintained for each dispensing period. In the context of method the first counter may be used to maintain a running count of an accumulated aggregate value of a dispensing parameter during a current dispensing period.

At block computer executable instructions of the dispensing control module s may be executed to determine whether a dispense signal has been generated by received from a sensor of the product dispenser . If no dispense signal is detected the determination at block may be performed iteratively until a dispense signal is detected. On the other hand if a dispense signal is detected the controller s may execute computer executable instructions of the dispensing control module s at block to generate an actuation signal and communicate the actuation signal to the dispensing mechanism of the product dispenser to cause the dispensing mechanism to dispense an amount of a product from the product supply . The product may be dispensed in accordance with a current value of the dispensing parameter for the current dispensing period. If the current dispensing period is a second dispensing period that immediately follows the initial dispensing period the current value of the dispensing parameter may be the value generated at block of method . If on the other hand the current dispensing period is a second dispensing period that follows a first dispensing period other than the initial dispensing period the current value of the dispensing parameter for the second dispensing period may have been determined in accordance with the optimization process of method as described in more detail below.

At block computer executable instructions of the dispensing parameter optimization module s may be executed to increment the first counter by the current value of the dispensing parameter. The value of a dispensing parameter that is used to increment the first counter at block may be a value determined based on a default setting as may be the case where the immediately preceding dispensing period was the initial dispensing period a value calculated in accordance with an optimization process disclosed herein or a directly measured value. The value may be a measured value if for example the measured value deviates from the initial value because a user prematurely halted the dispensing cycle.

At block computer executable instructions of the unique user determination module s may be executed to determine whether the dispense is attributable to a new user or the same user. In response to an affirmative determination at block computer executable instructions of the unique user determination module s may be executed at block to increment the second counter by one. In the context of method the second counter may maintain a running count of the number of unique users to whom product has been dispensed up until a given point during the current dispensing period. The method may then proceed to block . On the other hand in response to a negative determination at block the method may proceed directly to block without incrementing the second counter.

At block computer executable instructions of the dispensing parameter optimization module s may be executed to determine whether a threshold condition is met for adjusting the current value of the dispensing parameter. In the context of method the threshold condition may be a condition that signals the end of the current dispensing period such as for example a threshold number of dispensing cycles being reached during the current dispensing period a threshold number of unique users to whom product has been dispensed during the current dispensing period a threshold period of time having elapsed during the current dispensing period and so forth.

In response to a negative determination at block the method may return to block and may be performed iteratively for each subsequent dispense request. On the other hand in response to an affirmative determination at block computer executable instructions of the dispensing parameter value adjustment module s may be executed to perform various comparisons including a comparison between the current value of dispensing parameter and a previous value of the dispensing parameter for a previous dispensing period and a comparison of a ratio of the current value of the first counter to the current value of the second counter for the current dispensing period and a ratio of a previous value of the first counter to a previous value of the second counter for that previous dispensing period. The operations of blocks may represent the algorithmic logic embodied in the table provided previously herein.

More specifically referring now to computer executable instructions of the dispensing parameter optimization module s may be executed at block to determine whether a current value of the dispensing parameter for the current dispensing period is greater than a previous value of the dispensing parameter for a previous dispensing period. In response to a negative determination at block the method may proceed to block . At block computer executable instructions of the dispensing parameter optimization module s may be executed to determine whether a ratio of the current first counter to the current second counter e.g. aggregate usage per user for the current dispensing period is greater than a ratio of a previous value of the first counter to a previous value of the second counter for a previous dispensing period e.g. aggregate usage per user for a dispensing period that preceded the current dispensing period .

In response to an affirmative determination at block the method may proceed to block where computer executable instructions of the dispensing parameter value adjustment module s may be executed to increase the current value of the dispensing parameter to obtain an increased dispensing parameter value for the next dispensing period. On the other hand in response to a negative determination at block the method may proceed to block where computer executable instructions of the dispensing parameter value adjustment module s may be executed to decrease the current value of the dispensing parameter to obtain a decreased dispensing parameter value for the next dispensing period.

Referring again to block in response to an affirmative determination the method may proceed to block where computer executable instructions of the dispensing parameter optimization module s may be executed to determine whether a ratio of the current first counter to the current second counter e.g. aggregate usage per user for the current dispensing period is greater than a ratio of a previous value of the first counter to a previous value of the second counter for a previous dispensing period e.g. aggregate usage per user for a dispensing period that preceded the current dispensing period .

In response to a negative determination at block the method may proceed to block where computer executable instructions of the dispensing parameter value adjustment module s may be executed to increase the current value of the dispensing parameter to obtain an increased dispensing parameter value for the next dispensing period. On the other hand in response to a positive determination at block the method may proceed to block where computer executable instructions of the dispensing parameter value adjustment module s may be executed to decrease the current value of the dispensing parameter to obtain a decreased dispensing parameter value for the next dispensing period.

From either block or block the method may proceed to block where computer executable instructions of the dispensing parameter optimization module s may be executed to store the current values of the first and second counters. Method may then be performed again for a subsequent dispensing period in which dispensing cycles are performed in accordance with the value generated at block or the value generated at block . The method may be performed for any number of dispensing periods until an optimized value or optimized range of values for the dispensing parameter is reached. In certain example embodiments the method may be repeated until a difference in aggregate usage per user between any two e.g. successive dispensing periods is within a predetermined threshold. In other example embodiments the dispensing parameter value may be iteratively adjusted until no change in the aggregate usage per user is observed for some threshold number of iterations. In other example embodiments that dispensing parameter value may be iteratively adjusted indefinitely or as long as the dispenser is operational.

In certain example embodiments an adjustment in the current dispensing parameter value to obtain the dispensing parameter value for the next dispensing period may result in no change in the aggregate usage per user. In such example embodiments the current dispensing parameter value may nonetheless be increased or decreased to obtain a dispensing parameter value for the next dispensing period. For example in those example embodiments in which the aggregate usage per user is unchanged from a previous dispensing period to a current dispensing period the direction in which the current dispensing parameter value is adjusted e.g. whether the current dispensing parameter value is increased or decreased to obtain the dispensing parameter value for the next dispensing period may be the same as a direction in which the previous dispensing parameter value was adjusted to obtain the current dispensing parameter value.

As previously noted while the example method has been described in connection with adjusting the current dispensing parameter value to obtain the dispensing parameter value for a subsequent dispensing period it should be appreciated that the results of comparing the usage data for a current dispensing period to usage data for a previous dispensing period may be used to adjust a dispensing parameter value associated with any previous dispensing period to obtain the dispensing parameter value for a subsequent dispensing period. Further as previously noted while the example method has been described in connection with maintaining a first counter of an aggregate value of the dispensing parameter and a second counter of the number of unique users in other example embodiments a running average of the usage rate for a dispensing period e.g. aggregate value of the dispensing parameter number of unique users may be maintained in lieu of or in addition to maintaining the first and or second counters.

At block an indication may be received of a dispense signal generated by a sensor of the product dispenser in response to a triggering event detected by the sensor .

At block computer executable instructions of the dispensing parameter optimization module s may be executed to determine one or more characteristics of the dispense signal. A characteristic of the dispense signal may include without limitation an amplitude of the dispense signal a frequency of the dispense signal a waveform of the dispense signal or the like.

At block computer executable instructions of the dispensing parameter optimization module s may be executed to access a sensor profile associated with the sensor to determine based at least in part on the sensor profile whether the characteristic s of the dispense signal are associated with at least a threshold probability of being indicative of a genuine user initiated triggering event. In certain example embodiments the determination at block may include determining that the sensor profile includes or is otherwise associated with a second signal characteristic that matches a first signal characteristic of the dispense signal within a specified tolerance determining a probability that the second signal characteristic is indicative of a genuine user initiated triggering event and further determining that the probability exceeds a threshold probability value. For example if the first signal characteristic of the dispense signal is a frequency of the dispense signal the second signal characteristic may be a frequency of a previously received dispense signal. If the two frequencies are within a threshold value of one another and if a probability that the frequency of the previously received dispense signal is indicative of a genuine user initiated triggering event meets or exceeds a threshold probability value a dispensing cycle may be initiated in response to the dispense signal. On the other hand if the first signal characteristic of the current dispense signal matches a second signal characteristic associated with the sensor profile within a specified tolerance and if a probability that the second signal characteristic is indicative of a genuine user initiated triggering event does not meet or exceed the threshold probability value the dispensing cycle may not be initiated. The threshold probability value may be any suitable value. In certain example embodiments the threshold probability value may be lower in earlier stages of an optimization process in order to allow for dispenses in more situations and thus obtain more data for refining the sensor profile. As the sensor profile becomes more refined and thus more capable of distinguishing between genuine and false triggers the threshold probability value may be increased. In addition as previously noted a probability that a dispense signal is indicative of a false trigger may be used and compared to a corresponding threshold probability value in lieu of or in addition to a probability that the dispense signal is indicative of a genuine user triggering event.

If based on an evaluation of the current dispense signal with respect to the sensor profile a negative determination is made at block then the method may proceed again iteratively from block . If on the other hand an affirmative determination is made at block the controller s may at block execute computer executable instructions of the dispensing control module s to generate an actuation signal to cause the dispensing mechanism of the product dispenser to dispense an amount of product.

At block the controller s may execute the computer executable instructions of the dispensing parameter optimization module s to determine a time that elapses between receipt of the dispense signal or generation of the actuation signal or completion of the dispensing cycle and receipt of an indication that the product has been used or retrieved. In other embodiments the computer executable instructions may determine a time that elapsed during continuous receipt of the dispense signal. If the product dispenser dispenses towel retrieval of the dispensed product may be determined based on activation of a tear sensor. If the product dispenser dispenses solids liquids gases or a mixed phase product such as an aerosol foam gel or the like such as soap use retrieval of the dispensed product may be determined from the completion of a continuous receipt of the dispense signal.

At block the controller s may execute computer executable instructions of the dispensing parameter optimization module s to determine whether the elapsed time is within a predetermined threshold range of time. In response to an affirmative determination at block that is a determination that the elapsed time was within the threshold range of time from a time corresponding to receipt of the dispense signal generation of the actuation signal initiation of the dispensing cycle or completion of the dispensing cycle then the method may proceed to block where computer executable instructions of the dispensing parameter optimization module s may be executed to modify the sensor profile to indicate an increased likelihood that the characteristic s of the dispense signal are indicative of a genuine user trigger and therefore a decreased likelihood that the characteristic s of the dispense signal are indicative of a genuine trigger.

In response to a negative determination at block that is a determination that the elapsed time was not within the threshold range of time then the method may proceed to block where the controller s may execute computer executable instructions of the dispensing parameter optimization module s to modify the sensor profile to indicate a decreased likelihood that the characteristic s of the dispense signal are indicative of a genuine user trigger and therefore an increased likelihood that characteristic s of the dispense signal are indicative of a false trigger. From block or block the method may proceed to block and may again proceed iteratively therefrom. The method may continue iteratively such that the sensor profile is refined over time to more accurately distinguish dispense signals indicative of genuine user triggers from dispense signals indicative of false triggers.

Method involves the use of a confidence factor to statistically improve the estimate of the number of users that receive dispenses over a period of time e.g. during a dispensing period . As previously mentioned the confidence factor may represent an approximate probability that two dispenses that occurred within the threshold period of time were to the same user. A confidence factor may be determined for a given set of usage data. In certain example embodiments the usage data may be simulated usage data. Alternatively actual usage data may be used. In those example embodiments in which simulated usage data is used the simulated usage data may include randomly generated times at which a simulated group of users requests dispenses from a product dispenser. The times of the dispense requests may be ordered and an elapsed time between each successive pair of dispense requests may be determined. A respective number of occurrences for each elapsed time may then be determined. The number of occurrences for a given elapsed time may correspond to a number of pairs of dispenses that include dispenses that occurred within the elapsed time of one another.

A moving average for the distribution of the respective number of occurrences for each elapsed time may be then determined. Multiple data points may then be selected that are sufficient to determine a best fit regression line for the distribution. The best fit regression line and the total number of users to whom the usage data relates may then be used to determine for each elapsed time a probability that two users will request dispenses separated by that elapsed time. A cumulative probability may also be determined with respect to each elapsed time where the cumulative probability represents a probability that two users will request dispenses that are separated by that elapsed time or any shorter interval of time. The above described process may be repeated for multiple usage datasets corresponding to different amounts of user traffic e.g. different numbers of users per hour . In this manner for each group consisting of a different number of users per hour a respective cumulative probability that two users will randomly request dispenses within a selected threshold period of time e.g. 10 seconds may be determined. Corresponding confidence factors may also be calculated for each group. For any given group of users the corresponding confidence factor for the threshold period of time may equal 1 minus the corresponding cumulative probability for the threshold period of time. The confidence factors may then be plotted against the corresponding user traffic rates e.g. number of users per hour and a best fit regression line may be determined. An equation representing this best fit regression line may be used to statistically approximate the confidence factor corresponding to any given user traffic rate.

Example data showing cumulative probabilities and confidence factors corresponding to different user traffic rates and the approximate equation of the corresponding best fit regression line are shown below.

It should be appreciated that the above described process is merely an illustrative way to determine the confidence factor. For example user traffic may be measured using a different time frame than an hour. Further a different threshold of time may be chosen which in turn would correspond to different confidence factors and different cumulative probabilities. Further the confidence factor may be determined using any suitable statistical approach and need not be determined based on simulated usage data.

One or more confidence factors as determined from Eq 1 for example may be used to successively refine an estimate of a number of unique users that receive product dispenses over some period of time e.g. a dispensing period . Referring to blocks may include operations to determine an initial estimate of the number of unique users over a period of time e.g. over the course of a dispensing period . A period of 10 seconds will be used as an example threshold period of time for ease of explanation in describing the operations of method . However it should be appreciated that any suitable threshold period of time may be chosen.

At block a first number of dispenses each of which did not occur within for example 10 seconds of any other dispense may be determined. Stated another way a first number of dispenses may be determined each of which occurred more than 10 seconds apart from any other dispense. At block a first estimated number of unique users corresponding to the first number of dispenses may be determined. The first estimated number of unique users may equal the first number of dispenses.

At block a second number of dispenses may then be determined. Each dispense in the second number of dispenses may have occurred within for example 10 seconds of at least one other dispense in the second number of dispenses. At block the second number of dispenses may then be divided by two to obtain a second estimated number of unique users based on the assumption that each pair of dispenses that occurred within 10 seconds of one another were received by the same user .

At block the first estimated number of unique users and the second estimated number of unique users may then be summed to obtain a first total estimated number of unique users.

At block a second statistical number of unique users each of whom is statistically determined to have received a dispense more than 10 seconds apart from any other dispense may then be determined. The second statistical number of unique users may be determined by subtracting the first statistical number of unique users from the second estimated number of unique users. At block the first estimated number of unique users the first statistical number of unique users and the second statistical number of unique users may then be summed to obtain a second total estimated number of unique users.

At block a determination may be made as to whether the second total estimated number of unique users equals the first total estimated number of unique users. In response to a negative determination at block e.g. if the difference between the first total and the second total is non zero the method may be repeated from block . More specifically a new confidence factor may be determined based on the second total estimated number of unique users and the operations of may be repeated using the second confidence factor to obtain a third total estimated number of unique users. The operations of may be iteratively performed to refine the estimate of the number of actual unique users until the statistical estimate is unchanged from one iteration to the next. It should be appreciated that in certain example embodiments a positive determination may be made at block if the total estimated number of unique users for the current iteration and the total estimated number of unique users for a previous iteration are within some threshold difference from one another.

One or more operations of the methods may have been described above as being performed by a product dispenser or more specifically by one or more program modules executing on such a device. It should be appreciated however that any of the operations of methods may be performed at least in part in a distributed manner by one or more other devices or more specifically by one or more program modules applications or the like executing on such devices. In addition it should be appreciated that processing performed in response to execution of computer executable instructions provided as part of an application program module or the like may be interchangeably described herein as being performed by the application or the program module itself or by a device on which the application program module or the like is executing. While the operations of the methods may be described in the context of the illustrative product dispenser it should be appreciated that such operations may be implemented in connection with numerous other device configurations.

The operations described and depicted in the illustrative methods of may be carried out or performed in any suitable order as desired in various example embodiments of the disclosure. Additionally in certain example embodiments at least a portion of the operations may be carried out in parallel. Furthermore in certain example embodiments less more or different operations than those depicted in may be performed.

Although specific embodiments of the disclosure have been described one of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that numerous other modifications and alternative embodiments are within the scope of the disclosure. For example any of the functionality and or processing capabilities described with respect to a particular device or component may be performed by any other device or component. Further while various illustrative implementations and architectures have been described in accordance with embodiments of the disclosure one of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that numerous other modifications to the illustrative implementations and architectures described herein are also within the scope of this disclosure.

Certain aspects of the disclosure are described above with reference to block and flow diagrams of systems methods apparatuses and or computer program products according to example embodiments. It will be understood that one or more blocks of the block diagrams and flow diagrams and combinations of blocks in the block diagrams and the flow diagrams respectively may be implemented by execution of computer executable program instructions. Likewise some blocks of the block diagrams and flow diagrams may not necessarily need to be performed in the order presented or may not necessarily need to be performed at all according to some embodiments. Further additional components and or operations beyond those depicted in blocks of the block and or flow diagrams may be present in certain embodiments.

Accordingly blocks of the block diagrams and flow diagrams support combinations of means for performing the specified functions combinations of elements or steps for performing the specified functions and program instruction means for performing the specified functions. It will also be understood that each block of the block diagrams and flow diagrams and combinations of blocks in the block diagrams and flow diagrams may be implemented by special purpose hardware based computer systems that perform the specified functions elements or steps or combinations of special purpose hardware and computer instructions.

Program modules applications or the like disclosed herein may include one or more software components including for example software objects methods data structures or the like. Each such software component may include computer executable instructions that responsive to execution cause at least a portion of the functionality described herein e.g. one or more operations of the illustrative methods described herein to be performed.

A software component may be coded in any of a variety of programming languages. An illustrative programming language may be a lower level programming language such as an assembly language associated with a particular hardware architecture and or operating system platform. A software component comprising assembly language instructions may require conversion into executable machine code by an assembler prior to execution by the hardware architecture and or platform.

Another example programming language may be a higher level programming language that may be portable across multiple architectures. A software component comprising higher level programming language instructions may require conversion to an intermediate representation by an interpreter or a compiler prior to execution.

Other examples of programming languages include but are not limited to a macro language a shell or command language a job control language a script language a database query or search language or a report writing language. In one or more example embodiments a software component comprising instructions in one of the foregoing examples of programming languages may be executed directly by an operating system or other software component without having to be first transformed into another form.

A software component may be stored as a file or other data storage construct. Software components of a similar type or functionally related may be stored together such as for example in a particular directory folder or library. Software components may be static e.g. pre established or fixed or dynamic e.g. created or modified at the time of execution .

Software components may invoke or be invoked by other software components through any of a wide variety of mechanisms. Invoked or invoking software components may comprise other custom developed application software operating system functionality e.g. device drivers data storage e.g. file management routines other common routines and services etc. or third party software components e.g. middleware encryption or other security software database management software file transfer or other network communication software mathematical or statistical software image processing software and format translation software .

Software components associated with a particular solution or system may reside and be executed on a single platform or may be distributed across multiple platforms. The multiple platforms may be associated with more than one hardware vendor underlying chip technology or operating system. Furthermore software components associated with a particular solution or system may be initially written in one or more programming languages but may invoke software components written in another programming language.

Computer executable program instructions may be loaded onto a special purpose computer or other particular machine a processor or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a particular machine such that execution of the instructions on the computer processor or other programmable data processing apparatus causes one or more functions or operations specified in the flow diagrams to be performed. These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable storage medium CRSM that upon execution may direct a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer readable storage medium produce an article of manufacture including instruction means that implement one or more functions or operations specified in the flow diagrams. The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to cause a series of operational elements or steps to be performed on the computer or other programmable apparatus to produce a computer implemented process.

Additional types of CRSM that may be present in any of the devices described herein may include but are not limited to programmable random access memory PRAM SRAM DRAM RAM ROM electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology compact disc read only memory CD ROM digital versatile disc DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the information and which can be accessed. Combinations of any of the above are also included within the scope of CRSM. Alternatively computer readable communication media CRCM may include computer readable instructions program modules or other data transmitted within a data signal such as a carrier wave or other transmission. However as used herein CRSM does not include CRCM.

