---

title: Varactor with integrated micro-discharge source
abstract: An apparatus that includes a varactor element and an integrated micro-discharge source is disclosed herein. In a general embodiment, the apparatus includes at least one np junction and at least one voltage source that is configured to apply voltage across the np junction. The apparatus further includes an aperture that extends through the np junction. When the voltage is applied across the np junction, gas in the aperture is ionized, forming a plasma, in turn causing a micro-discharge (of light, charge particles, and space charge) to occur. The light (charge particles, and space charge) impinges upon the surface of the np junction exposed in the aperture, thereby altering capacitance of the np junction. When used within an oscillator circuit, the effect of the plasma on the np-junction extends the capacitance changes of the np-junction and extends the oscillator frequency range in ways not possible by a conventional voltage controlled oscillator (VCO).
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09472689&OS=09472689&RS=09472689
owner: Sandia Corporation
number: 09472689
owner_city: Albuquerque
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150902
---
This invention was developed under Contract DE AC04 94AL85000 between Sandia Corporation and the U.S. Department of Energy. The U.S. Government has certain rights in this invention.

A varactor is a type of diode that behaves as a variable capacitor when operated in reverse bias. With more particularity a varactor includes an np semiconductor junction wherein capacitance of the junction is a function of voltage applied across the junction. Specifically the capacitance of the np junction and thus the varactor decreases as the reverse voltage across the np junction increases.

Varactors are conventionally designed to conform to a voltage dependent capacitance response curve where the curve can be tailored to a specific range of values e.g. both in voltage and resulting capacitance as a function of the semiconductor material of the varactor amplitude of the voltage applied across the np junction and frequency of the voltage applied across the np junction. Varactors are typically found in electronic equipment where tuning is desired specifically a varactor is typically placed in parallel with an inductor to form a resonant frequency circuit as such they are known as voltage controlled oscillators VCO s . When the reverse voltage across the np junction of the varactor changes the resonant frequency of the tuning device the combination of the varactor and inductor likewise changes. With the inductor value typically constant the frequency range for the oscillator is dependent and limited by the varactor capacitance to voltage range.

From the above it can be ascertained that it is desirable to allow for as much flexibility as possible with respect to capacitance values that can be achieved by the varactor and it is further desirable to cause the varactor to reach a desired capacitance as quickly as possible. Conventionally however there are few suitable solutions to allow for the shifting of the voltage dependent capacitance curve of semiconductor materials when used as varactors.

Various technologies pertaining to varactors are disclosed herein. In a general embodiment a varactor can include a layer of n type material a layer of p type material and an np junction formed between the layer of n type material and the layer of p type material. The varactor can additionally include an aperture that extends at least partially through the n type material at least partially through the p type material and entirely through the np junction. Accordingly a portion of the np junction is exposed in the aperture. A gas is disposed in the aperture of the varactor wherein the gas can be air argon or other suitable gas. A voltage source is configured to apply a voltage across the np junction of the varactor. In operation the voltage applied across the np junction causes the gas disposed in the aperture to become ionized further resulting in formation of plasma. Given sufficient voltage a micro discharge occurs where photons are isotropically emitted in the aperture. In other words a burst of light is generated in the aperture.

In another embodiment capacitance of the np junction can be controlled as a function of amplitude and frequency of the voltage across the np junction applied by the voltage source and can further be controlled as a function of intensity and frequency of light charge particles and space charge density provided and emitted in the micro discharge . More specifically photons and charge particles formed and emitted during the micro discharge impinge upon and or are injected into the exposed portion of the np junction in the aperture which in turn modifies capacitance of the np junction. Likewise as referenced above the amplitude and frequency of voltage across the np junction applied by the voltage source also affects the capacitance of the np junction. The applied voltage and the micro discharge can be used in combination to effectuate a nonlinear alteration in capacitance of the np junction thereby producing an increase in the oscillator frequency range.

In yet another embodiment an apparatus can include an np junction that forms a portion of a varactor as well as an np junction that operates as a separate micro discharge source. With more detail the apparatus can include a layer of n type material a layer of p type material with an np junction formed therebetween and an aperture that extends through the layers of material and the np junction. The apparatus can also include a voltage source that applies a first voltage across the np junction in order to change capacitance of the np junction. The apparatus can further include a second np junction e.g. stacked on the np junction where the aperture extends through the second np junction. In this exemplary embodiment a second voltage source can be configured to apply a second voltage across the second np junction where the second voltage is applied to cause a micro discharge to occur in the aperture. Photons charge particles and space charge generated during such micro discharge impact a portion of the np junction exposed in the aperture. Put differently the micro discharge generated in the aperture proximate the second np junction emits photons and charge particles that impact and or interact by injection or space charge effects an exposed portion of the first np junction thereby varying capacitance of the np junction. The second voltage applied across the second np junction can be configured to cause micro discharges to have certain intensities and to occur at a certain frequency. Thus the first voltage applied by the first voltage source alters capacitance of the np junction and the second voltage applied by the second voltage source causes a micro discharge to occur which also impacts capacitance of the np junction. It can therefore be understood that several np junctions can be stacked on top of one another where one or more of such np junctions is configured to generate micro discharges and other np junctions in the stack are included in varactors.

The above summary presents a simplified summary in order to provide a basic understanding of some aspects of the systems and or methods discussed herein. This summary is not an extensive overview of the systems and or methods discussed herein. It is not intended to identify key critical elements or to delineate the scope of such systems and or methods. Its sole purpose is to present some concepts in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.

Additional features and advantages are described herein and will be apparent from the following Detailed Description and the figures.

Technologies pertaining to varactors are disclosed herein. With reference now to in a general embodiment an exemplary varactor is illustrated. The varactor may be included in an electronic device such as a semiconductor chip which can be included in a mobile telephone a television a wireless computing device e.g. a tablet computing device a laptop computing device a wearable computing device etc. . For example the varactor may be electrically coupled with an inductor to form a resonant frequency circuit wherein capacitance of by the varactor can be modified to alter the resonant frequency of the resonant frequency circuit.

The varactor includes a layer of n type material a layer of p type material and an np junction formed between the layer of n type material and the layer of p type material . In non limiting examples the layer of n type material the layer of p type material and the np junction can be formed of any suitable semiconductor material such as an ultra wide bandgap UWBG semiconductor material. Exemplary semiconductor materials that can be used to form the layers of the varactor include but are not limited to Metal oxides Si GaAs SiO SiC AIN and GaN.

The varactor also includes an aperture that extends at least partially through the layer of n type material at least partially through the layer of p type material and entirely through the np junction . The aperture may be cylindrical in nature cubic in nature conical in nature or any other suitable shape that results in at least a portion of the np junction being exposed in the aperture . Further while the aperture is illustrated in as extending entirely through the layer of n type material the np junction and the layer of p type material the aperture may only extend partially through the layer of p type material such that the aperture is a recess with a conical base.

A gas is disposed in the aperture e.g. the aperture is not filled with a solid such as a ceramic . The gas disposed in the aperture can be any suitable gas such as air argon or the like. If the gas disposed in the aperture is other than air the varactor may be sealed in a chamber such that air is unable to displace the desired gas in the aperture .

With reference to a cross sectional view of the exemplary varactor is illustrated. As can be ascertained in at least a portion of the np junction is exposed in the aperture such that inside the aperture the gas disposed therein is adjacent the exposed portion of the np junction .

Now referring to another exemplary cross sectional view of the exemplary varactor is illustrated. A voltage source is configured to apply a voltage across the np junction e.g. with a controlled frequency and amplitude . More specifically the voltage source can be electrically coupled to the layer of n type material and the layer of p type material by way of suitable contacts. The voltage source can supply a sufficiently high voltage to ionize the gas disposed in the aperture of the varactor . This results in formation of a plasma in the aperture thereby causing a micro discharge of photons light charged particles and consequently space charge effects. The photons are emitted isotropically in the aperture of the varactor as indicated by the arrows in . Accordingly some photons in the micro discharge exit the aperture and some photons in the micro discharge will impact the exposed portion of the np junction in the aperture .

The photons charge particles and space charge impacting the exposed portion of the np junction in the aperture cause the capacitance of the np junction to alter. Photons charge particles and space charge impinging upon the surface of the np junction in the aperture induce photo carriers in the np junction which change the carrier distribution in the np junction therefore the capacitance of the np junction is changed. Additionally the amplitude and frequency of the voltage applied across the np junction by the voltage source also causes the capacitance of the np junction to alter. Therefore another axis of control is provided when setting the capacitance of the varactor . In fact the utilization of the micro discharge to alter capacitance of the np junction can transform an intentionally linear voltage dependent capacitance response or curve of the np junction into a nonlinear voltage dependent curve.

The semiconductor material and the np junction design and structure used to form the varactor can be selected based upon its voltage dependent capacitance curve and the gas disposed in the aperture of the varactor can be selected as a function of frequency of light emitted during a micro discharge e.g. which may be selected as a function of the bandgap of the semiconductor material . The intensity of the micro discharge can be controlled by an amplitude and frequency of the voltage applied across the np junction by the voltage source . This utilization of two control parameters to set the capacitance of the np junction of the varactor can allow for a desired capacitance to be reached more quickly when compared to conventional varactors thereby allowing for example a resonant circuit that includes the varactor to reach its resonant frequency more quickly when compared to conventional resonant circuits.

With reference now to an isometric view of another exemplary varactor is illustrated. The varactor includes a layer of n type material and a layer of p type material adjacent the layer of n type material such that an np junction is formed between the layer of n type material and the layer of p type material . The exemplary varactor also includes a glass envelope that is adjacent to both the layer of n type material and the layer of p type material . The glass envelope can act as a protective seal for the semiconductor material. In alternative embodiments the envelop can be formed of a dielectric ceramic and or a semiconductor material.

The exemplary varactor also comprises a plurality of apertures wherein each of the apertures are illustrated as extending entirely through the glass envelope the layer of n type material and the layer of p type material and thus entirely through the np junction . Inclusion of multiple apertures in the varactor allows for simultaneous formation of micro discharges in the apertures thereby enhancing the effect of capacitance change caused by photons impinging upon exposed portions of the np junction in the apertures . While the exemplary varactor is illustrated as including four apertures it is to be understood that a varactor may include any suitable number of apertures e.g. fewer or more than four .

Now referring to an exemplary apparatus that includes an integrated varactor is illustrated. The exemplary apparatus includes a layer of p type material a layer of n type material and an np junction formed between the layer of p type material and the layer of n type material . The exemplary apparatus also includes a second layer of n type material a second layer of p type material and a second np junction formed between the second layer of n type material and the second layer of p type material . The apparatus may also optionally include a layer of dielectric material disposed between the layer of n type material and the second layer of n type material . The apparatus further comprises an aperture that extends through the layer of p type material the np junction the layer of n type material the layer of dielectric material the second layer of n type material the second np junction and the second layer of p type material . While the layers of the apparatus are shown and described in a certain order e.g. p n n p other orders are contemplated. For instance the layers shown as being p type material in may instead be formed of n type material and layers of p type material in may instead be layers of n type material. In any event the apparatus includes at least two np junctions stacked on top of one another wherein the aperture extends through both of such np junctions. As will be described herein the second np junction can act as a varactor.

A first voltage source is electrically coupled to the layer of p type material and the layer of n type material such that the first voltage source is configured to apply a first voltage across the np junction . A second voltage source is electrically coupled to the second layer of n type material and the second layer of p type material such that the second voltage source is configured to apply a second voltage across the second np junction . Accordingly voltages e.g. voltage amplitudes and frequencies across the np junctions and can be controlled independently.

In the example shown in the first voltage source is configured to apply a first voltage across the np junction such that a plasma is formed in the aperture resulting in a micro discharge. As shown by the arrows at least some photons emitted during the micro discharge impinge upon a surface of the second np junction exposed in the aperture thereby affecting the capacitance of the second np junction . The second voltage source is configured to apply a second voltage e.g. with a desired amplitude and frequency across the second np junction thereby further affecting the capacitance of the second np junction . In other words the light in the micro discharge can be independently controlled from the voltage used to alter the capacitance of the second np junction . Capacitance of the second NP junction can be used to control resonant frequency of a resonant frequency circuit for example.

Further materials of the np junctions and can be independently selected such that the np junction acts as a varactor with a desired voltage dependent capacitance curve. Moreover gas disposed in the aperture can be selected to cause a micro discharge to have a particular frequency e.g. the gas can be selected based upon the material of the np junction .

Furthermore the first voltage source can be controlled to output a voltage of particular amplitude and frequency thereby generating micro discharges of desired amplitude at desired frequencies which in turn affect capacitance of the second np junction . Additionally the varactor can be placed under pressure wherein the capacitance of the second np junction may be a function of such pressure. It can therefore be ascertained that a variety of variables can be controlled to effectuate a desired potentially nonlinear voltage dependent capacitance curve for the second np junction .

Now referring to a cross sectional view of yet another exemplary apparatus is illustrated wherein the apparatus is configured as a varactor having a micro discharge source integrated therewith. The exemplary apparatus includes a layer of p type material a layer of n type material and an np junction formed between the layer of p type material and the layer of n type material . The exemplary apparatus also includes a second layer of p type material and a second np junction formed between the layer of n type material and the second layer of p type material . The exemplary apparatus additionally includes an aperture that extends through the layers of the apparatus . As described above a gas is disposed in the aperture . A voltage source applies a voltage with a controlled frequency and amplitude across the np junction thereby periodically causing a plasma to be formed in the aperture . In turn this results in micro discharges such that photons charge particles and space charge are isotropically emitted in the aperture . As illustrated at least some of the photons charge particles and space charge impinge upon a surface of the second np junction that is exposed in the aperture thereby changing capacitance of the second np junction . Thus the second np junction can act as a varactor and the second layer of p type material can be contacted to take a signal out from the second np junction .

While the varactor has been illustrated as having a particular configuration e.g. the layers of materials arranged as p n p it is be understood that the arrangement may be different e.g. n p n . Further the apparatus may include more apertures and or additional np junctions stacked on top of one another.

Now referring to yet another exemplary apparatus is illustrated. In previous examples apparatus with integrated varactors and micro discharge sources have been illustrated as including multiple np junctions where one of such np junctions acts as a micro discharge source and the other acts as a varactor element and further where the micro discharge source and varactor element are axially aligned with one another. illustrates another exemplary embodiment where axes of apertures extending through np junctions are misaligned e.g. the np junction functioning as a varactor may be formed perpendicular to the NP junction functioning as a micro discharge source . In this example the apparatus includes a layer of n type material a layer of p type material and an np junction formed between the layer of n type and the layer of p type material . The apparatus further includes an aperture that extends through the layer of n type material the layer p type material and the np junction wherein a gas is disposed in the aperture .

The apparatus also comprises a second layer of n type material a second layer of p type material and a second np junction formed between the second layer of n type material and the second layer of p type material . The apparatus additionally includes a second aperture that extends through the second layer of n type material the second layer of p type material and the second np junction e.g. such that at least a portion of the second np junction is exposed in the second aperture . As can be ascertained an axis of the aperture is misaligned from an axis of the aperture . An angle between the axes can be set as a function of a desired amount of light that impacts the surface of the second np junction in the second aperture . In a non limiting example the axis of the aperture may be perpendicular to the axis of the second aperture although other arrangements are contemplated.

Similar to what has been described above a voltage source applies a voltage across the np junction resulting in formation of a plasma in the aperture . This causes a micro discharge to occur wherein photons charge particles and space charge are isotropically emitted at least some of which enter the second aperture and impinge upon the surface of the second np junction in the second aperture . This causes capacitance of the second np junction to alter. Thus the second np junction acts as a varactor element in the apparatus .

With reference now to an exemplary apparatus that includes a varactor is illustrated. The apparatus comprises a pressurized chamber with a varactor enclosed therein. The pressurized chamber can be associated with a particular pressure which can impact capacitance of the varactor . With more particularity the varactor includes a layer of n type material a layer of p type material and an np junction formed between the layer of n type material and the layer p type material . The apparatus also includes an aperture that extends through the aforementioned layers. It is to be understood that any of the apparatus described herein may be included in the pressurized chamber . Utilization of the pressurize chamber also allows for a desired gas to be disposed in the aperture wherein such gas is not readily displaced by air.

Now referring solely to an exemplary methodology that facilitates forming a varactor is illustrated. The methodology starts at and at a layer of p type material is formed. At a layer of n type material is formed adjacent the layer p type material such that in np junction is formed.

At an aperture is formed that extends through the np junction. In an example suitable semiconductor fabrication techniques can be utilized to form the aperture such as photolithography etching etc. At a voltage source is electrically coupled to the layer of the n type material and the layer of the p type material such that the voltage source is able to apply a voltage across the np junction. As described above when voltage is applied across the np junction a micro discharge can be formed in the aperture wherein light generated during the micro discharge can impact the capacitance of the np junction and or impact capacitance of another np junction that is proximate the NP junction . The methodology completes at .

Referring now to an exemplary methodology for setting a frequency of an oscillator circuit is illustrated. The methodology starts at and at a voltage is applied across in np junction of a varactor wherein the np junction has an aperture that extends there through. Application of the voltage across the np junction results in a micro discharge occurring in the aperture wherein light generated in the micro discharge impacts an exposed portion of an np junction. At a frequency of an oscillator circuit is set based upon the applied voltage. For example the micro discharge is used to alter capacitance of an np junction wherein such alteration is undertaken to cause the np junction to have a certain capacitance which can be used to set the frequency of the oscillator circuit. The methodology completes at .

As used herein the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or. That is unless specified otherwise or clear from the context the phrase X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is the phrase X employs A or B is satisfied by any of the following instances X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B. In addition the articles a and an as used in this application and the appended claims should generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from the context to be directed to a singular form. Additionally as used herein the term exemplary is intended to mean serving as an illustration or example of something and is not intended to indicate a preference and the term about refers to a range of 10 of the value to which the term applies.

All patents patent applications publications technical and or scholarly articles and other references cited or referred to herein are in their entirety incorporated herein by reference to the extent allowed by law. The discussion of those references is intended merely to summarize the assertions made therein. No admission is made that any such patents patent applications publications or references or any portion thereof are relevant material or prior art. The right to challenge the accuracy and pertinence of any assertion of such patents patent applications publications and other references as relevant material or prior art is specifically reserved.

In the description above for the purposes of explanation numerous specific details have been set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the embodiments. It will be apparent however to one skilled in the art that one or more other embodiments may be practiced without some of these specific details. The particular embodiments described are not provided to limit the invention but to illustrate it. The scope of the invention is not to be determined by the specific examples provided above but only by the claims below. In other instances well known structures devices and operations have been shown in block diagram form or without detail in order to avoid obscuring the understanding of the description. Where considered appropriate reference numerals or terminal portions of reference numerals have been repeated among the figures to indicate corresponding or analogous elements which may optionally have similar characteristics.

What has been described above includes examples of one or more embodiments. It is of course not possible to describe every conceivable modification and alteration of the above devices or methodologies for purposes of describing the aforementioned aspects but one of ordinary skill in the art can recognize that many further modifications and permutations of various aspects are possible. Accordingly the described aspects are intended to embrace all such alterations modifications and variations that fall within the spirit and scope of the appended claims. Furthermore to the extent that the term includes is used in either the detailed description or the claims such term is intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising as comprising is interpreted when employed as a transitional word in a claim.

It should also be appreciated that reference throughout this specification to one embodiment an embodiment one or more embodiments or different embodiments for example means that a particular feature may be included in the practice of the invention. Similarly it should be appreciated that in the description various features are sometimes grouped together in a single embodiment figure or description thereof for the purpose of streamlining the disclosure and aiding in the understanding of various inventive aspects. This method of disclosure however is not to be interpreted as reflecting an intention that the invention requires more features than are expressly recited in each claim. Rather as the following claims reflect inventive aspects may lie in less than all features of a single disclosed embodiment. Thus the claims following the Detailed Description are hereby expressly incorporated into this Detailed Description with each claim standing on its own as a separate embodiment of the invention.

