---

title: Devices and methods for selective enablement of data communication
abstract: A communication device includes a communication circuit, one or more processors operable with the communication circuit, and one or more memory devices to store one or more applications. The one or more processors can enable data messaging communication through the communication circuit and disable other data communication through the communication circuit. A data message can be received indicating a request to enable at least data communication with at least one application to deliver a payload to the application. In response to receipt of the data message, data communication can be enabled with the application to receive the payload. After receipt of the payload, data communication with the application can again be disabled.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09473433&OS=09473433&RS=09473433
owner: Google Technology Holdings LLC
number: 09473433
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150320
---
This application claims the benefit of India Application No. IN 836 DEL 2014 filed Mar. 22 2014 entitled DEVICES AND METHODS FOR SELECTIVE ENABLEMENT OF DATA COMMUNICATION which is herein incorporated by reference in its entirety for all purposes.

This disclosure relates generally to electronic devices and more particularly to electronic communication devices.

Mobile electronic communication devices such as mobile telephones smart phones gaming devices and the like are used by billions of people. The owners of such devices come from all walks of life. These owners use mobile communication devices for many different purposes including but not limited to voice communications and data communications for text messaging Internet browsing commerce such as banking and social networking. The circumstances under which users of mobile communication device use their devices varies widely as well.

In using mobile communication devices for so many different combinations of applications service providers offer a wide variety of plans. Some include voice communications only some offer voice communications and limited data communications and others offer voice communications and unlimited data communications. Other plans do not include voice communications but include one of limited data communications or unlimited data communications. The price for each plan varies.

One problem associated with many electronic communication devices is the user is unaware of how frequently the device communicates with a server for data. Illustrating by example one device operating an electronic mail application may fetch mail continually while another device operating a different electronic mail application may fetch mail hourly. Still another device running yet another electronic mail application may fetch mail only once a day. The amount of data communications traffic imposed on the network in each of these devices will be vastly different. Unpleasant surprises can arise for a user with a limited data plan when their device exceeds a monthly limit as the additional fees for this data communication can accumulate quickly. It would be advantageous to have a device or method that intelligently managed data communications to and from an electronic device.

Skilled artisans will appreciate that elements in the figures are illustrated for simplicity and clarity and have not necessarily been drawn to scale. For example the dimensions of some of the elements in the figures may be exaggerated relative to other elements to help to improve understanding of embodiments of the present disclosure.

Before describing in detail embodiments that are in accordance with the present disclosure it should be observed that the embodiments reside primarily in combinations of method steps and apparatus components related to enabling and disabling data communications in an electronic device in response to message communications. Any process descriptions or blocks in flow charts should be understood as representing modules segments or portions of code which include one or more executable instructions for implementing specific logical functions or steps in the process. Alternate implementations are included and it will be clear that functions may be executed out of order from that shown or discussed including substantially concurrently or in reverse order depending on the functionality involved. Accordingly the apparatus components and method steps have been represented where appropriate by conventional symbols in the drawings showing only those specific details that are pertinent to understanding the embodiments of the present disclosure so as not to obscure the disclosure with details that will be readily apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art having the benefit of the description herein.

It will be appreciated that embodiments of the disclosure described herein may be comprised of one or more conventional processors and unique stored program instructions that control the one or more processors to implement in conjunction with certain non processor circuits some most or all of the functions of receiving message communications to enable data communications so a particular application can receive a data payload without data communications being continually enabled as described herein. The non processor circuits may include but are not limited to a radio receiver a radio transmitter signal drivers clock circuits power source circuits and user input devices. As such these functions may be interpreted as steps of a method to perform selective enablement and disablement of data communications to reduce the data communications load on a network from a particular electronic device. Alternatively some or all functions could be implemented by a state machine that has no stored program instructions or in one or more application specific integrated circuits ASICs in which each function or some combinations of certain of the functions are implemented as custom logic. Of course a combination of the two approaches could be used. Thus methods and means for these functions have been described herein. Further it is expected that one of ordinary skill notwithstanding possibly significant effort and many design choices motivated by for example available time current technology and economic considerations when guided by the concepts and principles disclosed herein will be readily capable of generating such software instructions and programs and ICs with minimal experimentation.

Embodiments of the disclosure are now described in detail. Referring to the drawings like numbers indicate like parts throughout the views. As used in the description herein and throughout the claims the following terms take the meanings explicitly associated herein unless the context clearly dictates otherwise the meaning of a an and the includes plural reference the meaning of in includes in and on. Relational terms such as first and second top and bottom and the like may be used solely to distinguish one entity or action from another entity or action without necessarily requiring or implying any actual such relationship or order between such entities or actions. Also reference designators shown herein in parenthesis indicate components shown in a figure other than the one in discussion. For example talking about a device while discussing figure A would refer to an element shown in figure other than figure A.

Embodiments of the disclosure contemplate that many data communications plans suitable for use with mobile communication devices such as smart phones tablet computers media players gaming devices and so forth can become very expensive when a user exceeds their data communication traffic allotment for a particular billing period. For example when a user with an allocation of one gigabyte of data communications traffic per month exceeds that by say 500 kilobytes the user may be in for a rude surprise when opening the monthly bill.

To avoid such situations as well as to maintain a monthly budget many users simply turn data communications OFF in their device thereby preventing all data communications with a network or server. Users elect this option because it is sometimes difficult to know which applications or device components are pulling data from the network or in what amounts the data are being pulled. Users thus turn everything OFF to ensure no overage fees are assessed.

While this solution helps to ensure that a monthly budget will not be exceeded it is less than desirable because the user is likely to miss timely communications such as electronic mail communications calendar invitations breaking news and so forth. For instance a user may be in the midtown district of a metropolitan city at the same time as a friend. If the friend sends a calendar invite stating Lunch at Buster s Restaurant at noon and the recipient s data communications connection is turned OFF in an overabundance of caution to avoid data overage charges the user may well miss having a delightful lunch at Buster s of roasted barramundi with carrot latkes. Not only does the user miss a tasty meal but they miss seeing their friend as well.

Embodiments of the disclosure advantageously provide a solution to this dilemma by selectively enabling data communication and optionally selectively launching a particular application so that data communications relating to events of interest can be received in a limited fashion without all data communications being enabled. For example in one embodiment a message can be delivered from a server complex to an electronic communication device when a data communication payload is needs to be delivered. When this occurs the electronic device can selectively enable data communication for an application for which the data communication payload is intended receive the data communication payload deliver it to the application and then again disable data communication. This works to ensure that users do not miss important events.

Continuing the example above when the friend sends a calendar invite stating Lunch at Buster s Restaurant at noon and the recipient s data communication connection is disabled in one embodiment a server complex sends a message to the recipient s electronic device. In response to the message which can be a short message service SMS message in one embodiment the recipient s device can enable data communication with a calendar application operating on the recipient s device. The recipient s electronic device can optionally launch the calendar application as well in one or more embodiments. The server complex then sends the calendar invite to the recipient s device. After receiving the data communication payload the recipient s device then disables data communication capability. The user sees that a new invitation has been received. However advantageously the calendar application did not need to continually poll the server complex to receive the invitation. By using embodiments of the disclosure the recipient will be able not only to see the friend but also have a wonderful lunch at Buster s Restaurant.

In one embodiment a communication device which may be a smartphone tablet computer or other communication device includes a communication circuit one or more processors and one or more memory devices. The processors can be operable with the communication circuit to send and receive voice communications data communications or combinations thereof to and from a network and or server complex. The memory devices can store one or more applications suitable for operation on the processors.

In one embodiment the processor or processors can be configured to enable data messaging communication through the communication circuit and disable other data communication through the communication circuit. When a server complex in communication with the communication device receives a data payload intended for the communication device the server complex can transmit a data message to the communication device. In one embodiment the data message can indicate a request to enable at least data communication with at least one application to deliver a payload to the application.

In response to receiving the message the communication device can enable data communication with the application to receive the payload. The communication device can optionally launch the application if it is not running as well. After receipt of the payload the processor or processors of the communication device can again disable data communication with the application thereby mitigating the risk that the device will exceed a data communication allotment within a predetermined time period.

Turning now to illustrated therein is one system configured in accordance with one or more embodiments of the disclosure. The system includes a server complex and a plurality of communication devices operating in a distributed communication network . While one server complex is shown it will be obvious to those of ordinary skill in the art having the benefit of this disclosure that the server complex can be one or more server complexes. The server complex can be configured as hardware software processing logic or combinations thereof that are designed arranged and or configured to execute some of the methods and steps described herein. In one embodiment the server complex can be a single hardware system deployed at a remote location. In other embodiments the server complex can be distributed using multiple hardware components located across different physical locations. The server complex can perform various processes related to selective delivery of data communications to one or more of communication devices .

The communication devices of the plurality of communication devices can be any type of a variety of devices including a desktop laptop netbook or tablet computer mobile communication devices personal digital assistants gaming devices media players tablet or palmtop computers and so forth. As noted above for ease of illustration the devices will be referred to as being mobile or portable. However embodiments of the disclosure are not so limited.

In one embodiment each communication device of the plurality of communication devices operates in a distributed communication network . In one embodiment at least some of the distributed communication network is in communication with the server complex . In one embodiment each device of the plurality of communication devices is in wireless communication with the server complex across a network .

In one embodiment at least some of the communication devices e.g. communication device are configured to receive data communications. The communication device can be operable to receive voice communication data communication or combinations thereof. One or more processors of the communication device can be operable to selectively enable and selectively disable one or more of the communication mechanisms. For example one or more processors of the communication device can enable data messaging communication so that the communication device can receive short message service messages or multimedia message service messages. At the same time the processor s of the communication device can disable other communication. Consequently data communication for applications other than short message service messages and or multimedia message service messages will not occur when the other data communication services are not enabled. In one embodiment the processor s of the communication device are to disable all data communications other than messaging communications.

In one embodiment the server complex is operable to receive a data payload from a third party . In one embodiment the data payload is intended for an application operating on a communication device e.g. communication device . When the server complex receives this data payload in one embodiment the server complex is to transmit a message to the communication device . In one embodiment the message is a short message service message. In one embodiment the message indicates or identifies the application for which it is intended. In one or more embodiments the message provides a request to deliver the data payload to the application .

The communication device then receives the message in the form of a data message. In one embodiment the message provides a request to enable data communication with at least the application . In response to receiving the message in one embodiment the processor s of the communication device then enable data communication with the application through a communication circuit. In one embodiment the processor s can also launch the application .

The server complex can then after transmitting the message deliver the payload to the application operating on the processor s of the communication device . The processor s of the communication device then receives the data payload and delivers it to the application . After receipt of the data payload in one embodiment the processor s of the communication device then disable the data communication . The processor s of the communication device can optionally terminate the application as well. In one embodiment the server complex can then cease communication with the communication device until another message is sent in response to the server complex receiving another data payload. As with before the new message can indicate the application to which the data payload is directed as well as provide another request for data communication with the communication device .

In this manner the communication device can disable all data communication other than messaging communication. This allows a user to reduce the amount of data traffic pulled through the network . At the same time the use of a message to selectively enable data communication with the communication device ensures that a user of the communication device does not miss receiving important information.

To illustrate operation of the system by example presume the user of communication device has turned OFF all data communication other than short message service communication. Now presume that a friend sends the user an electronic mail message. With prior art systems the user could not receive the message because data service is turned OFF. However using embodiments of the present disclosure the server complex sends a message to the communication device . In one embodiment the message identifies the application which in this example would be the electronic mail application. The processor s of the communication device then optionally launch the application and enable data communication with the application . In one embodiment the processor s enable data communication only with the application . The server complex then sends the electronic mail message as a data payload . The electronic mail message is received through a communication circuit of the communication device and delivered to the application . The processor s of the communication device can then disable data communication with the server complex until another message is received.

In one embodiment the message is a hidden data message. This means that it is received by the operating system in the background without being presented to the user on a display. While the application may present an alert that the data payload has been received as a notification prompt on the display hidden data messages are handled without notification to the user in one or more embodiments. Instead hidden data messages trigger data communication enablement data communication disablement optional application launching and termination and otherwise handling and coordinating receipt of the data payload . By contrast normal data messages such as standard short message service messages would of course be presented to a user by a messaging application.

In one embodiment the message includes a representational state transfer application programming interface. A representational state transfer application programming interface is a data architecture with constraints applied to various components of the data structure. The constraints are placed upon interaction of components with other components as well as their interpretation of data elements. Embodiments of the disclosure contemplate that the third party sending the data payload may not include an infrastructure to transmit the message to enable data communication with a communication device . Accordingly in one embodiment such infrastructure resides at the server complex operating in communication with the plurality of communication devices . The infrastructure provides the representational state transfer application programming interface. The third party can then invoke the representational state transfer application programming interface to cause the server complex to transmit the message .

Illustrating by example in one embodiment the third party attempts to send the data payload directly to a communication device across the network . If data communication with the communication device is disabled the third party detects that the data payload remains undelivered. Accordingly the third party sends a request to invoke the representational state transfer application programming interface to the server complex . The server complex in turn then transmits the message to the communication device to enable data communication as previously described.

In one or more embodiments once data communication is enabled by the communication device a timer can be initiated. Upon expiration of the timer which may be set for example for two minutes a time out condition occurs in the communication device . In one embodiment the time out condition disables data communication . If the third party still desires to send the data payload or if the data payload remains undelivered a new message can be sent to the communication device to again enable the data communication .

In one or more embodiments a user of the communication device can control which applications are operable with the system and which are not. For example a particular user may want an electronic mail application a weather application and a social networking application to enable data communication in response to messages . However they may not want a shopping application to respond the same way. Thus in one embodiment the user is able to provide user input to the electronic device to prevent one or more applications from operating in response to messages . Such a feature would be advantageous for example if the user feels a particular application is enabling data communication too frequently in response to messages . The user may simply provide user input to disable the feature for that application.

Turning now to illustrated therein is one embodiment of a server complex suitable for use with one or more embodiments of the disclosure. As noted the server complex may include one or more processors . The one or more processors may be operable with one or more memory devices . The one or more memory devices can be used to store the data payloads to be delivered to communication devices in communication with the server complex. The one or more memory devices can also store executable instructions for the one or more processors to provide operation for the server complex .

In one embodiment the one or more processors can generate the messages that are sent to the communication devices to enable data communication. In one embodiment a data message indicates an application for which a data payload is intended by including an application identifier . The data message can also provide a request to deliver the data payload to the application. The data message can also include a request to enable data communication with at least one application. As noted above the data message can include a representational state transfer application programming interface that a third party can invoke to cause the data message to be sent.

In one embodiment the one or more processors are operable to receive the data payload intended for an application operating on one communication device. The one or more processors can then transmit through a communication circuit a data message to the communication device. After transmitting the message the one or more processors can deliver the data payload to the application operating on the one communication device.

In one or more embodiments the one or more processors can then cease communication with the communication device until another message indicating either the same or a different application is sent to the communication device.

Turning now to illustrated therein is one explanatory mobile communication device configured in accordance with one or more embodiments of the disclosure. The explanatory mobile communication device is shown as a smart phone for ease of illustration. However it will be obvious to those of ordinary skill in the art having the benefit of this disclosure that other portable electronic devices may be substituted for the explanatory smart phone as noted above. The mobile communication device may be configured as a palm top computer a tablet computer a gaming device wearable computer a remote controller a media player laptop computer portable computer or other electronic device.

The mobile communication device includes a housing . In a front housing member is disposed about the periphery of a display . A rear housing member forms the backside of the mobile communication device in this illustrative embodiment. Features can be incorporated into the housing members . Examples of such features include an optional camera or an optional speaker port which are show disposed on the backside of the mobile communication device in this embodiment. In this illustrative embodiment a control button is disposed along the rear housing member on the backside of the mobile communication device .

In one embodiment a display is disposed along the front surface of the housing of the mobile communication device . In one embodiment the display is configured to provide visual output images or other visible indicia to a user. In one embodiment the display comprises an organic light emitting diode OLED device. In one embodiment the display comprises a touch sensor to form touch sensitive display configured to receive user input across the surface of the display . The display can also be configured with a force sensor. Where configured with both a touch sensor and force sensor one or more processors of the mobile communication device operable with the touch sensor and the force sensor can determine not only where the user contacts the display but also how much force the user employs in contacting the display .

In the explanatory mobile communication device is shown illustratively with a schematic block diagram . In this embodiment the mobile communication device includes a user interface which can include the display . The illustrative mobile communication device also includes a communication circuit that can be configured for wired or wireless communication with one or more other devices or networks such as network from . The networks can include a wide area network a local area network or personal area network as well. Examples of wide area networks include GSM CDMA WCDMA CDMA 2000 iDEN TDMA 2.5 Generation 3GPP GSM networks 3rd Generation 3GPP WCDMA networks 3GPP Long Term Evolution LTE networks and 3GPP2 CDMA communication networks UMTS networks E UTRA networks and other networks. The communication circuit can include wireless communication circuitry one of a receiver a transmitter or transceiver and one or more antennas .

The mobile communication device includes one or more processors which can have one or more control circuits. The one or more processors are responsible for performing the various functions of the device. The one or more processors can be a microprocessor a group of processing components one or more Application Specific Integrated Circuits ASICs programmable logic or other type of processing device. The one or more processors can be operable with the user interface and the communication circuit as well as various peripheral devices ports or connectors that can be coupled to the mobile communication device via interface connections.

The one or more processors can be configured to process and execute executable software code to perform the various functions of the mobile communication device . A storage device such as memory stores the executable software code used by the one or more processors for device operation. The executable software code used by the one or more processors can be configured as one or more modules that are operable with the one or more processors . Such modules can store instructions control algorithms and so forth. The instructions can instruct processors or one or more processors to perform the various steps touch sensing and methods described below.

In one embodiment the one or more processors are responsible for running the operating system environment of the mobile communication device . The operating system environment can include a kernel one or more drivers and an application service layer and an application layer. The operating system environment can be configured as executable code operating on one or more processors or control circuits of the mobile communication device .

The application layer can be responsible for executing application service modules. The application service modules may support one or more applications or apps. Examples of such applications shown in include a cellular telephone application for making voice telephone calls a web browsing application configured to allow the user to view webpages on the display of the mobile communication device an electronic mail application configured to send and receive electronic mail a photo application configured to permit the user to view images or video on the display of mobile communication device and a camera application configured to capture still and optionally video images. These applications are illustrative only as others will be obvious to one of ordinary skill in the art having the benefit of this disclosure.

As noted above the one or more processors can be configured to one or more of launch one of the apps and or enable data communication with one of the apps in response to receipt of messages . In one or more embodiments the one or more processors are responsible for managing the applications and all data communications of the mobile communication device . Accordingly the one or more processors can be responsible for launching monitoring and killing the various applications and the data communication with the various applications in response to receipt of messages data payloads and so forth as described above. The applications of the application layer can be configured as clients of the application service layer to communicate with services through application program interfaces APIs messages events or other inter process communication interfaces.

Turning now to illustrated therein is a messaging protocol illustrating one or more methods in accordance with embodiments of the disclosure. Three entities are shown in namely a third party a server complex and a communication device .

The third party which may be a content provider for one or more applications operating on the communication device can initially transmit a data payload to the server complex . In one embodiment the data payload is intended for a particular application operating on the communication device . A post to a social networking website for example may comprise a data payload for a social networking application. Similarly an electronic mail message may comprise a data payload for an electronic mail application and so forth.

The server complex then receives the data payload . Prior to this occurring in one embodiment the communication device enables data messaging communication through its communication circuit . The communication device can then disable other data communication through the communication circuit . In one embodiment the communication device disables all data communication other than the data messaging communication . Said differently in one embodiment the communication device disables the communication of data with applications of the communication device other than data messaging communications. In one embodiment the communication device also enables voice communication . Thus the disabling of data communication excludes voice communication in one or more embodiments.

In one embodiment user input can be received at the communication device . The user input as noted above can selectively enable data communication with one or more selected applications. Where this occurs the disabling of other data communication would exclude data communication with the selected applications.

In one embodiment since other data communication with applications is disabled the server complex is unable to deliver the data payload to the communication device . The server complex then transmits a message or a data message to the communication device . The communication device receives the message or data message . In one embodiment the message or data message requests data communication with an application operable on the one or more processors of the communication device . The communication device can optionally conceal the message or data message from the user interface of the communication device by treating it as a hidden message as previously described. In one embodiment after the receiving the message or data message the communication device can optionally transmit an acknowledgement to receive the data payload in the form of one or more data packets for the application.

The communication device can then temporarily enable data communication with an application identified by the message or data message . The communication device can then receive the data payload . In one embodiment the data payload is transmitted in the form of one or more data packets from the server complex . Prior to receiving the data packets the communication device can optionally launch the application on the communication device . The communication device can optionally transmit an acknowledgement to the server complex indicating that all data packets have been successfully received.

After receipt of the data packets the communication device can optionally terminate the application . In one embodiment the communication device then again disables data communication with the application . The server complex can cease data communication with the communication device until a new data payload is received where the process can repeat.

Turning now to illustrated therein is a method suitable for operation on the communication device to accomplish the method of . At step the method disables data communication other than data messaging communication. In one embodiment the disabling at step excludes voice communication.

At decision the method checks to see whether any user input to control how applications respond to the method has been received. Where it has at step the method can configure the communication device accordingly. For example in one embodiment the method can receive user input to selectively enable one or more other applications. Where this occurs the disabling at step excludes communication with the one or more other applications selected by the user.

At step the method receives a data message indicating a request to enable at least data communication with at least one application to deliver a payload to the at least one application. At step the method can optionally launch the application indicated in the message received at step . At step the method can optionally transmit an acknowledgement to the message received at step . At step the method can optionally conceal the message received at step from a user interface by treating it as a hidden message.

At step in response to receipt of the data message at step the method can enable data communication with the application to receive the payload. At step the method can then disable data communication with the application. Step can also include terminating the application.

Turning now to illustrated therein is a method suitable for operation on a server complex to accomplish the method of . At step the method receives a data payload intended for an application operating on one communication device. At step the method transmits a message to the one communication device. In one embodiment the message indicates the application and provides a request to deliver the data payload to the application. An acknowledgement may be optionally received from the one communication device at step .

At step after transmitting the message at step the method delivers the data payload to the application operating on the one communication device. At step the method ceases communication with the one communication device until another message indicating the application or another application is sent to the one communication device.

Turning now to a process in accordance with one or more embodiments of the disclosure is illustrated graphically. At an electronic communication device has data messaging enabled voice data enabled and all other data communication disabled. At a server complex transmits a message identifying an application and requesting data communication with the application. At in response to the message from the electronic communication device enables data with the particular application after launching the application. The server complex then delivers the payload as one or more data packets to the electronic communication device. At the electronic communication device again disables data communication for the application from the server complex and returns to the state it was in at .

In the foregoing specification specific embodiments of the present disclosure have been described. However one of ordinary skill in the art appreciates that various modifications and changes can be made without departing from the scope of the present disclosure as set forth in the claims below. Thus while preferred embodiments of the disclosure have been illustrated and described it is clear that the disclosure is not so limited. Numerous modifications changes variations substitutions and equivalents will occur to those skilled in the art without departing from the spirit and scope of the present disclosure as defined by the following claims. Accordingly the specification and figures are to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense and all such modifications are intended to be included within the scope of present disclosure. The benefits advantages solutions to problems and any element s that may cause any benefit advantage or solution to occur or become more pronounced are not to be construed as a critical required or essential features or elements of any or all the claims.

