---

title: Computer keyboard holder
abstract: A computer keyboard holder has a wall angulated at a predetermined angle. A built-in shelf is offset from the front side of the wall and has a horizontal base that is angulated from the wall. The horizontal base has a top surface for storing objects. The built-in shelf has a back that is perpendicular to the base and a pair of triangular shaped sidewalls located such that the top surface is between the sidewalls. A bracket extends outwardly from a bottom edge of the wall to receive a portion of a lengthwise edge of a keyboard. A keyboard is stored on the keyboard holder by positioning a portion of the lengthwise edge of the keyboard on the bracket and leaning the keyboard against the front side of the wall. When a keyboard is stored on the keyboard holder, the keyboard obscures the view of the built-in shelf.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09386844&OS=09386844&RS=09386844
owner: Premier Manufacturing Group, Inc.
number: 09386844
owner_city: Shelton
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150702
---
Devices for storing computer keyboards are disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 7 922 267 entitled Movable Monitor And Keyboard Storage System For A Work Surface U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2005 0115475 entitled Keyboard Carrier and U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2012 0268878 entitled Mountable Device .

In some embodiments the invention is directed to a computer keyboard holder that comprises a wall that is angulated at a predetermined angle. The wall has a front side and a rear side. The computer keyboard holder further comprises a built in shelf that is offset from the front side of the wall and has a horizontal base section that is angulated from the wall. The horizontal base section has a top surface for storing objects. The built in shelf has a back section that is perpendicular to the base section and a pair of triangular shaped sidewalls located such that the top surface is between the sidewalls. A bracket extends outwardly from a bottom edge of the wall to receive a portion of a lengthwise edge of a keyboard. A computer keyboard is stored on the keyboard holder by positioning the lengthwise edge of the keyboard on the bracket and leaning the keyboard against the front side of the wall. When a computer keyboard is stored on the keyboard holder the computer keyboard obscures the view of the built in shelf.

In some embodiments the invention is directed to a computer keyboard holder that comprises a wall that is angulated at a predetermined angle . The wall has a bottom edge portion a top edge portion a front side and a rear side. The wall has a size that is generally the same as the size of a computer keyboard. The computer keyboard holder further comprises a built in shelf portion that is offset from the front side of the wall. The built in shelf portion has a substantially horizontal base section that is angulated from the wall by an acute angle. The base section has a surface for storing objects a back section that is perpendicular to the base section and a pair of triangular shaped sidewalls located such that the surface of the base section is between the triangular shaped sidewalls. The triangular shaped sidewalls are perpendicular to the base section. Each triangular shaped sidewall has a perimeter that comprises a first portion that is contiguous with the base section a second portion that is contiguous with the back section and perpendicular to the first portion and a third portion that is contiguous with the wall and is angulated from the first portion by the predetermined angle . The computer keyboard holder further comprises a plate member that is attached to the top edge portion of the wall and extends downward such that the plate member is angulated from the rear side of the wall by an angle that is less than 180 . The plate member is configured to allow the computer keyboard holder to be attached to a structure. The computer keyboard holder further comprises at least one bracket that extends outwardly from the bottom edge portion of the wall. The bracket comprises a first section that is generally perpendicular to the front side of the wall and configured to receive a portion of the lengthwise end of a computer keyboard. A computer keyboard can be held by the computer keyboard holder by positioning a portion of the lengthwise edge of the computer keyboard on the bracket and leaning the computer keyboard against the front side of the wall. The predetermined angle of the wall keeps the computer keyboard leaning against the front side of the wall

Referring to there is computer keyboard holder in accordance with one embodiment of the invention. Computer keyboard holder comprises wall that is angulated at a predetermined angle see . Wall has bottom edge portion top edge portion front side and rear side . Front side has surface . In one embodiment wall has a size that is generally the same as the size of a computer keyboard. Keyboard holder further comprises built in shelf portion that is offset from front side of wall . Built in shelf portion has a substantially horizontal base section that is angulated from wall by an acute angle. Base section has top surface for storing objects such a computer mouse remote control device etc. Built in shelf portion further comprises back section that is perpendicular to base section and a pair of triangular shaped sidewalls and that are located such that surface is between the triangular shaped sidewalls and . Triangular shaped sidewalls and are perpendicular to base section . Triangular shaped sidewall has a perimeter that comprises first perimeter portion that is contiguous with base section second perimeter portion that is contiguous with back section and perpendicular to first perimeter portion and third perimeter portion that is contiguous with wall and is angulated at predetermined angle from first perimeter portion . Similarly triangular shaped sidewall also has a perimeter that comprises a first perimeter portion that is contiguous with base section a second perimeter portion that is contiguous with back section and perpendicular to the first perimeter portion and a third perimeter portion that is contiguous with wall and is angulated at predetermined angle from the first perimeter portion. Back section of built in shelf portion has opening for receiving a fastening device to allow computer keyboard holder to be attached to a structure such as a wall column etc. As shown in surface of front side extends about built in shelf portion . Wall includes a first plurality of openings and a second plurality of openings . The purpose of openings and is discussed in the ensuing description.

Referring to keyboard holder further comprises plate member that is attached to top edge portion of wall and extends downward such that plate member is angulated by angle from rear side of wall . In one embodiment angle is less than 90 . In another embodiment angle is an obtuse angle. Plate member is configured to allow keyboard holder to be attached to a wall column article of furniture or other structure. Specifically plate member has at least one opening therein which is sized to receive a fastener such as a screw or nail to allow plate member and thus keyboard holder to be attached to a structure such as a wall column etc. In one embodiment there is a plurality of openings in plate member . Each opening is aligned with a corresponding opening in wall . Such a configuration allows a screw nail or other fastening member to be inserted through each opening and corresponding opening in order to attach the keyboard holder to a structure such as a wall column etc. Keyboard holder includes an additional plate member . Plate member includes openings . Each opening is aligned with a corresponding opening in wall . Such a configuration allows a screw nail or other fastening member to be inserted through each opening and corresponding opening in order to attach the keyboard holder to a structure such as a wall column etc. As shown in plate member is positioned in proximity to side edge of wall and plate member is positioned in proximity to side edge of wall .

Referring to keyboard holder further comprises at least one bracket extending outwardly from bottom edge portion of wall . Bracket is sized to receive a portion of a lengthwise edge of a computer keyboard. Bracket comprises first section that is substantially perpendicular to wall and second section that is angulated upward and perpendicular to first section such that bracket has a substantial L shape wherein second section prevents the computer keyboard from sliding off of first section . Keyboard holder further includes bracket . Bracket comprises first section that is substantially perpendicular to wall and second section that is angulated upward and perpendicular to first section such that bracket has a substantial L shape wherein second section prevents the computer keyboard from sliding off of first section . A computer keyboard can be stored on keyboard holder by positioning portions of the lengthwise edge of the computer keyboard on brackets and and leaning the computer keyboard against front side of wall . The predetermined angle of wall maintains physical contact between the rear side of the computer keyboard and front side of wall .

Referring to keyboard holder further comprises a pair of arm members and . Arm member extends from side edge of wall and is angulated from front side of wall by an angle that is between about 80 and 100 . Arm member extends from side edge of wall and is angulated from front side of wall by an angle that is between about 80 and 100 . In one embodiment each arm member and is substantially perpendicular to front side of wall .

Referring to base section of built in shelf portion has bottom side and back section has rear side . Keyboard holder further comprises support bracket . Bracket comprises substantially horizontal section that is attached to bottom side of base section and upstanding vertical section that is attached to the substantially horizontal section . Upstanding vertical section is substantially perpendicular to substantially horizontal section and is spaced apart from rear side of back section . Upstanding vertical section has an opening for receiving a fastening device such as a screw. Opening in back section of built in shelf portion is aligned with opening . Such a configuration allows a fastening device such as a screw or nail to be inserted through opening and opening in order to attach or mount keyboard holder to a structure such as a wall column article of furniture etc.

In one embodiment keyboard holder includes relatively soft pads or cushions that can be adhered to front side of wall portions and of brackets and respectively and arm members and in order to prevent the computer keyboard from being scratched and to create a degree of friction that prevents movement of a computer keyboard when the keyboard is positioned on keyboard holder . For example if fasteners are inserted through openings in wall and corresponding openings in plate member a cushion or pad can be adhered to wall so as to cover the protruding heads of the aforementioned fasteners so as to prevent the fasteners from scratching the computer keyboard. Similarly if fasteners are inserted through openings in wall and corresponding openings in plate member a cushion or pad can be adhered to wall so as to cover the protruding heads of the fasteners to prevent the fasteners from scratching the computer keyboard. The cushions or pads can be fabricated from any suitable material such as foam rubber Velcro fabric etc.

Referring to computer keyboard is positioned on keyboard holder . Computer keyboard has lengthwise edge portion and side portions and . Portions of lengthwise edge portion are supported by brackets and . The rear side of computer keyboard leans against front side of wall as a result of the angulation of wall . Section of bracket and section of bracket prevent computer keyboard from sliding out of brackets and respectively. Computer keyboard obscures the view of built in shelf .

Any suitable material may be used to fabricate computer keyboard holder . Examples of such materials are steel stainless steel iron copper brass aluminum plastic PVC polyvinyl chloride rubber resin and composites.

In another embodiment brackets and are replaced by a single bracket that is centrally located on bottom edge portion of wall . In such an embodiment the centrally located bracket has the same structure as brackets and but has a relatively longer length so as to receive a relatively larger portion of the lengthwise edge of the keyboard .

In an alternate embodiment the built in shelf portion is configured so that the base section is angulated with respect to the wall to a predetermined angular degree such that the base section slopes downward toward the back section of the built in shelf. Such a configuration results in the triangular shaped sidewalls having a shape that is still triangular but yet different than the triangular shape shown in .

The foregoing description for purpose of explanation has been described with reference to specific embodiments. However the illustrative discussions above are not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise forms disclosed. Many modifications and variations are possible in view of the above teachings. The embodiments were chosen and described in order to best explain the principles of the invention and its practical applications to thereby enable others skilled in the art to best utilize the invention and various embodiments with various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated.

