---

title: System and method for enabling interactions between a policy decision point and a charging system
abstract: A system and method for managing group-based charging for network usage and spending. A server computing device that includes an offline charging system (OFCS) component may be configured to receive a communication message that includes a first attribute, determine/identify a group of user equipments that includes a first user equipment device that is associated with the received communication message, and determine a charging attribute state for the determined group of user equipments based on the first attribute and a second attribute associated with a second user equipment device in the group of user equipments. The server may apply a charging event, determine whether the charging attribute state of the group of user equipments changed as a result of applying the charging event, and notifying a listener component of a new charging attribute state in response to determining that the charging attribute state of the group of user equipments changed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09602676&OS=09602676&RS=09602676
owner: OPENET TELECOM LTD.
number: 09602676
owner_city: Dublin
owner_country: IE
publication_date: 20150924
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 751 495 titled System and Method for Enabling Interactions between a Policy Decision Point and a Charging System filed Jan. 28 2013 which claims the benefit of priority to U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 591 497 titled System and Method for Enabling Interactions Between a Policy Decision Point and an Offline Charging System filed Jan. 27 2012 the entire contents of all of which are hereby incorporated by reference.

Wireless and cellular communication technologies have seen dramatic improvements over the past few years. Cellular service providers now offer users a wide array of services higher usage limits and attractive subscription plans. Wireless dongles and embedded wireless modem cards allow users to use tablet computers netbooks and laptops to access wireless Internet protocol IP and data services through the cellular networks. User Equipment UE such as Internet enabled smart phones tablets and gaming consoles have become essential personal accessories connecting users to friends work leisure activities and entertainment. Users now have more choices and expect to have access to content data and communications at any time in any place. As more users utilize these services telecommunication system operator networks must expand to meet the increase in user demand support the array of new services and provide fast reliable communications.

As telecommunications operators upgrade to next generation network technologies and as subscribers consume increasing amounts of high bandwidth content via their UEs across fixed and wireless networks there is a growing need for both telecommunications network operators and their subscribers to better monitor their network usage and related spending.

Existing solutions for tracking usage and spending are generally focused on prepaid customers and are typically implemented in an online charging system OCS of a policy and charging control network. As operators deploy new and additional policy management systems and solutions in their networks the focus of tracking solutions will shift from prepaid customers and the OCS to enabling interactions between charging systems and policy management systems to enforce policies e.g. lowering data speeds limiting access to content applications etc. in the telecommunications network based on the subscriber s spending limits credit state user defined parental controls and other subscriber or charging related information. Accordingly improving the architecture of policy and charging systems to better support interactions between online and offline charging systems and policy management systems will be beneficial to network operators and their consumers.

The various embodiments include methods of managing group based charging for network usage and spending in a communications network which may include receiving in a processor a subscription request that includes a charging attribute from a listener component determining whether the subscription request identifies a group of user equipments determining the group of user equipments to which a user equipment associated with the subscription request belongs when it is determined that the subscription request does not identify a group of user equipments determining an identity of at least one other user equipment in the group of user equipments and determining a charging attribute state for the group of user equipments based on the charging attribute.

In an embodiment the method may include receiving a charging event that identifies a user equipment from a charging component applying the charging event determining whether the user equipment identified in the charging event is a member of the group of user equipments identified in the subscription request determining whether the charging attribute state of the group of user equipments has changed and notifying the listener component that the charging attribute state of the group of user equipments identified in the subscription request has changed. In a further embodiment the listener component may be a policy management system component. In a further embodiment the user equipment may be a machine to machine device. In a further embodiment the charging component may be a policy enforcement system component. In a further embodiment the charging event may relate to a service in a circuit switched domain. In a further embodiment determining a charging attribute state for the group of user equipments based on the charging attribute may include obtaining charging information associated with multiple user equipments from multiple sources relating to multiple services.

In a further embodiment the multiple sources may include at least one online charging system and at least one offline charging system. In a further embodiment determining a charging attribute state for the group of user equipments based on the charging attribute may include aggregating charging information associated with all user equipments within the group of user equipments. In a further embodiment determining whether the subscription request identifies a group of user equipments may include determining whether the subscription request identifies a group related to a corporate account. In a further embodiment determining a charging attribute state for the group of user equipments based on the charging attribute may include returning the charging attribute state to the listener component. In a further embodiment notifying the listener component that the charging attribute state of the group of user equipments identified in the subscription request has changed may include notifying the listener component of a new charging attribute state.

Further embodiments include a server configured for managing group based charging for network usage and spending in a communications network including a network interface and a server processor configured with processor executable instructions to perform operations including receiving in a processor a subscription request that includes a charging attribute from a listener component determining whether the subscription request identifies a group of user equipments determining the group of user equipments to which a user equipment associated with the subscription request belongs when it is determined that the subscription request does not identify a group of user equipments determining an identity of at least one other user equipment in the group of user equipments and determining a charging attribute state for the group of user equipments based on the charging attribute. In an embodiment the server processor may be configured with processor executable instructions to perform operations further including receiving a charging event that identifies a user equipment from a charging component applying the charging event determining whether the user equipment identified in the charging event is a member of the group of user equipments identified in the subscription request determining whether the charging attribute state of the group of user equipments has changed and notifying the listener component that the charging attribute state of the group of user equipments identified in the subscription request has changed.

Further embodiments include a non transitory server readable storage medium having stored thereon server executable configured cause a server to perform operations for managing group based charging for network usage and spending in a communications network including receiving in a processor a subscription request that includes a charging attribute from a listener component determining whether the subscription request identifies a group of user equipments determining the group of user equipments to which a user equipment associated with the subscription request belongs when it is determined that the subscription request does not identify a group of user equipments determining an identity of at least one other user equipment in the group of user equipments and determining a charging attribute state for the group of user equipments based on the charging attribute. In an embodiment the stored server executable instructions may be configured cause a server to perform operations further including receiving a charging event that identifies a user equipment from a charging component applying the charging event determining whether the user equipment identified in the charging event is a member of the group of user equipments identified in the subscription request determining whether the charging attribute state of the group of user equipments has changed and notifying the listener component that the charging attribute state of the group of user equipments identified in the subscription request has changed.

Further embodiments may include a computing device having a processor configured with processor executable instructions to perform various operations corresponding to the methods discussed above.

Further embodiments may include a computing device having various means for performing functions corresponding to the method operations discussed above.

Further embodiments may include a non transitory processor readable storage medium having stored thereon processor executable instructions configured to cause a processor to perform various operations corresponding to the method operations discussed above.

The various embodiments will be described in detail with reference to the accompanying drawings. Wherever possible the same reference numbers will be used throughout the drawings to refer to the same or like parts. References made to particular examples and implementations are for illustrative purposes and are not intended to limit the scope of the invention or the claims.

The word exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any implementation described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other implementations.

The terms mobile device wireless device and user equipment UE may be used interchangeably and refer to any one of various cellular telephones smart phones e.g. iPhone personal data assistants PDA s palm top computers tablet computers laptop computers wireless electronic mail receivers e.g. Blackberry VoIP phones wire line devices devices implementing Machine to Machine M2M technologies multimedia Internet enabled cellular telephones and similar electronic devices capable of sending and receiving wireless communication signals. A wireless device may include a programmable processor and memory. In a preferred embodiment the wireless device is a cellular handheld device e.g. a mobile device which can communicate via a cellular telephone communications network.

A number of different cellular and mobile communication services and standards are available or contemplated in the future all of which may implement and benefit from the various embodiments. Such services and standards include e.g. third generation partnership project 3GPP long term evolution LTE systems third generation wireless mobile communication technology 3G fourth generation wireless mobile communication technology 4G global system for mobile communications GSM universal mobile telecommunications system UMTS 3GSM general packet radio service GPRS code division multiple access CDMA systems e.g. cdmaOne CDMA2000 enhanced data rates for GSM evolution EDGE advanced mobile phone system AMPS digital AMPS IS 136 TDMA evolution data optimized EV DO digital enhanced cordless telecommunications DECT Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WiMAX wireless local area network WLAN Wi Fi Protected Access I II WPA WPA2 and integrated digital enhanced network iden . Each of these technologies involves for example the transmission and reception of signaling and content messages. It should be understood that any references to terminology and or technical details related to an individual standard or technology are for illustrative purposes only and are not intended to limit the scope of the claims to a particular communication system or technology unless specifically recited in the claim language.

As telecommunications operators deployment of policy management systems continues to evolve especially in the mobile network domain it is becoming increasingly clear that gaps exist in some areas of the existing standards and the policy and charging control PCC reference architecture.

Among these gaps the current standards do not accommodate scenarios in which policy controls may be required for subscribers who are unknown to the OCS in general these would be post paid subscribers whose network usage is not managed by the OCS . There is no defined reference point or prescribed interface between a Policy Management System and the OFCS and existing OFCS are typically unable to track subscriber usage and spending in a similar manner to the OCS .

Another issue addressed by the various embodiments is that standards do not provide for an ability to address group of user equipments based thresholds i.e. thresholds based on groups . This gap in the standards exists regardless of whether the subscribers are charged using an online charging system or an offline charging system.

The various embodiment systems servers and methods overcome these and other limitations of existing solutions by providing an Enhanced Charging System ECS capable of tracking subscriber usage and spending as the services are being consumed in the network. The various embodiments may also include a new reference point and interface between a policy management system and the ECS. This interface enables notifications to be triggered between the ECS and policy management system when certain conditions have been met such as when a subscriber s spending threshold has been exceeded. In various embodiments all or portions of the enhanced charging system interface and or reference point may be implemented in a server of a telecommunications network as software hardware or any combination thereof. In various embodiments one or more portions of the enhanced charging system interface and or reference point described herein may be implemented as software instructions executing on a processor of a computing device such as a network server.

While the description of the various embodiments use terminology from 3GPP s mobile networks and systems architecture various embodiments may be extended to and deployed across other network domains such as fixed line e.g. TISPAN and BBF cable e.g. PacketCable WiMax e.g. WiMax Forum and so on. Furthermore a single deployment of this invention may support multiple instances of the network domains mentioned above.

An example architecture according to an embodiment of this invention is illustrated in . The main components of the architecture as shown in are discussed below.

Network elements or components may send charging detail records to the Enhanced Charging component and the SPR provides subscriber information.

The enhancements to the existing OFCS introduced by the Enhanced Charging component may include a rating function a spend velocity calculator and a spend monitor.

The Enhanced Charging component may also trigger spend notifications for example to the Policy Management System over the newly introduced interface.

In various embodiments of this invention the Enhanced Charging System may be a Charging Gateway Function CGF or a Mediation System or a Billing System which supports existing charging and also the new enhanced functions included in the ECS.

The Policy Management System component determines the policies that regulate subscribers use of the telecommunications operator s network. These policies may be mandated by the telecommunications operator or they may be selected and configured by subscribers.

The Policy Management System receives spend notifications from the Enhanced Charging component system over the newly introduced interface and uses configured rules to trigger messages to subscribers and to implement appropriate policy actions on the subscriber s currently ongoing or subsequent network activity.

In the preferred embodiment of a 3G or 4G mobile network the Policy Management System is referred to as a Policy and Charging Rules Function PCRF .

In the preferred embodiment of a 3G or 4G mobile network the proposed new reference point between the PCRF and the ECS may be labeled Sz.

In other embodiments of this invention the Policy Management System may be a Resource and Admission Control Subsystem RACS or a Broadband Policy Control Function BPCF or a PacketCable Application Manager PAM and Policy Server PS .

The Online Charging System component applies rules that establish whether subscribers are authorized to use a service monitors their ongoing use of that service determines the charges associated with consumption of network resources and whether subscribers account balances are sufficient to support that use of the service.

The Subscriber Management System component manages and maintains information relating to subscribers. Some of this information is permanently managed by this component such as user specific preferences. Additionally this component can retrieve information from other components within the telecommunications operator s network and OSS BSS environment. In the preferred embodiment of a 3G or 4G mobile network the Subscriber Management System is referred to as a Subscriber Profile Repository SPR or a User Data Repository UDR .

In an embodiment the ECS may be deployed as a separate or adjunct component from the OFCS. In such a deployment the ECS supports only the enhanced functions while the OFCS continues to perform all existing offline charging functions. In this embodiment the Gz messages are exchanged between the PCEF and the OFCS via the ECS such that the OFCS does not need to be modified not shown in .

In an embodiment messages exchanged in the various functions may be forked in which the message is sent to more than one destination. In message forking is illustrated by the flows Gz and Gz. A variety of known methods may be used to accomplish such message forking. In an embodiment a Dynamic Context Router DCR component may be deployed across the Gz reference point as shown in . In such an embodiment the DCR may fork Gz messages to the ECS and the OFCS. Details regarding fork routing by a DCR component are disclosed in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 309 333 titled Methods Systems and Devices for Forked Routing filed on Dec. 1 2011 relevant portions of which are incorporated herein by reference.

This invention introduces new components and interfaces to help address various challenges faced by operators as the next generation of telecommunications networks continue to evolve in scale and complexity 

CDR Input stream includes one or more channels for the delivery of Charging Data Records CDRs from network elements or other external systems to the ECS. The following protocols may be typically supported in the CDR Input stream GTP DIAMETER RADIUS FTP FTAM and IPDR and IPDR SP.

Subscriber Information stream is the mechanism for the ECS to access the subscriber information that it requires to perform its various functions. Subscriber information may be retrieved by the ECS and cached internally to improve system performance. Subsequent updates to subscriber information may be pushed to the ECS from the SPR UDR. Examples of subscriber information available in this stream include Subscription Plan Spending Limits Credit Status etc.

Downstream Systems feeds is a function via which one or more external systems receive information from the ECS. Among the systems that typically receive charging information are the billing system partner settlements systems data warehouses etc. If the ECS is part of the billing system then it may feed other systems within the operator s OSS BSS domain.

Spend Notifications is the mechanism for delivering notifications related to subscriber spend events over a defined interface.

This notification interface may be implemented using various protocols design paradigms and data formats including for example DIAMETER SOAP XML XML RPC RESTful protocols and JSON.

In an embodiment of this interface the Policy Management System may notify the ECS of certain network events such as session failure or resource unavailability. The events may enable the ECS to trigger pro active credits to the subscriber s account balance and corresponding credit notifications to the subscriber.

In an embodiment of this invention notifications may be sent simultaneously to the operator s third party partners to communicate the changes in subscriber account state. This may result in limits on the subscriber s ability to use a partner s services when for example certain credit conditions are exceeded.

Input Decoder is a function that is responsible for receiving CDRs from the input stream validating the information and extracting the relevant attributes that are required by the Rating Function.

Processing Module is a module which coordinates all the processing steps for the incoming CDRs including for example look ups of subscriber data that may be required to formulate a rating request for the Rating Function.

Rating Function is a module which determines the charge associated with each input CDR. The charge information may be used by other ECS components such as the Spend Monitor and Spend Velocity Calculator.

In an embodiment this charge may be permanently associated with the CDR and delivered to a downstream system as a pre rated event.

In an embodiment the Rating Function may automatically calculate credits to be applied to a subscriber s account when the Policy Management System indicates to the ECS that service delivery did not meet the subscriber s Service Level Agreement targets. These credits may be monetary or service units data volume time loyalty points etc. depending on the defined business rules.

Spend Monitor is a function that is responsible for tracking subscriber spending. This spending may be monitored at varying levels of granularity for example Per subscriber for a family or group of user equipments for each service for a subscriber for each member of a family or group account and so on.

Spend Velocity Calculator is a module which reports a subscriber s instantaneous spend velocity by sampling spending over a short period of time 

U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 537 419 titled Mobile Application Server that Enables Users to Directly Access Telecommunications Operator Services filed on Sep. 21 2011 provides further details on the Spend Velocity Calculator function.

This invention may be integrated with a Mobile Application Server MAS in order to provide subscribers with the spend notifications and also with visibility into their usage for example spend velocity.

Further details on the MAS and its capabilities are disclosed in U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 479 136 titled Mobile Application Server that Enables Users to Directly Access Telecommunications Operator Services filed on Apr. 26 2011 U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 537 419 titled Mobile Application Server that Enables Users to Directly Access Telecommunications Operator Services filed on Sep. 21 2011 U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 546 818 titled Mobile Application Server that Enables Users to Directly Access Telecommunications Operator Services filed on Oct. 13 2011 and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 309 333 titled Methods Systems and Devices for Forked Routing filed on Dec. 1 2011 the entire contents of all of which are hereby incorporated by reference.

In an embodiment the ECS may be new component that replaces or is an enhancement to and existing OCS OFCS components.

In an embodiment the ECS may be new component logically situated between the PCEF and the OCS OFCS components so that the PCEF interacts with the ECS in the same manner as it would with the OFCS and vice versa. Thus in an embodiment the ECS may be a man in the middle component.

In an embodiment the ECS may be a new component that receives Gz messages that have been forked from the original Gz messages between the PCEF and the OFCS. In this embodiment the ECS and the PCRF may communicate using Sz.

An embodiment method of managing charging network usage and spending in a communications network is illustrated in . The embodiment method may include receiving in a processor a subscription request that includes a charging attribute from a listener component in block and determining whether the subscription request identifies a group of user equipments UEs in determination block . If the subscription request does not identify a group of user equipments i.e. determination block No in block the processor may determine the group of user equipments to which a user equipment associated with the subscription request belongs. When it is determined that subscription request does identify a group of user equipments i.e. determination block Yes in block the processor may determine an identity of at least one other user equipment in the group of user equipments. Based on the identity of the at least one other user equipment and the charging attribute the method further includes determining a charging attribute state for the group of user equipments in block . For example if two members of a group of mobile devices have usages charges that total more than the charging threshold for the group then there is no need to consider the charges of other users in the group. The method may further include receiving a charging event that identifies a user equipment from a charging component in block applying the charging event in block determining whether the user equipment identified in the charging event is a member of the group of user equipments identified in the subscription request in block determining whether the charging attribute state of the group has changed in block and notifying the listener component that the charging attribute state of the group of user equipments identified in the subscription request has changed in block .

In various embodiments the charging attribute may relate to any aspect of charging and each charging attribute may have many charging attribute states. For example the charging attribute representing a group s spend in terms of its allowed overall spend may be MonthlySpend and the associated charging attribute states may be 50 75 90 and 100 . Other charging attributes may represent usage levels of a particular service spending thresholds while roaming and frequency with which an account is paid.

In an embodiment a listener node may send the identity of a group of user equipments UEs . The identity may be a named group and not a listing that forms a group. For example the group representing all user equipments belonging to American Airlines might be AmericanAirlines. 

In an embodiment the listener node may send the identity of a single user equipment. In an embodiment the listener node may send a list of user equipment identities that it wants to be treated as a group. In an embodiment such a list of user equipment identities may be created on an ad hoc basis by the listener node and thus the ECS may operate without requiring or using predefined group information.

In an embodiment the ECS may expand a received list of user equipment identities. For example if the ECS receives the list consisting of A B C D then it may expand each of these user equipment identities into its own list to produce A B B B C D D . This may be useful in scenarios where the listener node is interesting in receiving charging attribute state notifications relating to the group consisting of all user equipments belonging to the owners of the user equipments A B C and D. In an embodiment this expansion may be controlled by a parameter in the subscription request from the listener node.

In various embodiments the listener component may be a policy management system e.g. PCRF a notification server analytics engine presentation layer component GUI Portal etc. In an embodiment the listener component may be configured so as to not be time sensitive and hence it may work when the charging system is an offline charging system e.g. OFCS .

In various embodiments user equipment may be a mobile phone smart phone tablet laptop with dongle M2M device embedded device etc.

In various embodiments the charging component may be a policy enforcement system e.g. PCEF recharge component a portal an external component e.g. a bank a Charge Trigger Function in 3GPP terminology .

In various embodiments the charging event may relate to a voice usage data usage SMS MMS IM usage debit transactions e.g. mPayments credit transactions e.g. account top up plan change upgrade downgrade etc. etc.

In various embodiments aggregating may include determining any of an average e.g. the average monthly talk time for a group of users count e.g. the total number of users in a group who roamed in the month maximum median minimum mode sum e.g. the total number of SMS messages sent by a group of users etc.

In various embodiments the group may relate to a family a corporate account for multiple users who share a common employer a demographic e.g. male teenagers a single make and model of user equipments e.g. Samsung Galaxy S3s M2M devices belonging to a single person or entity e.g. a fleet of vehicles owned by a delivery company M2M devices providing a single service to many users e.g. smart bins that report when they are full and thus reduce unnecessary collections etc.

The various embodiments may be implemented on any of a variety of commercially available server devices such as the server illustrated in FIG. . Such a server typically includes a processor coupled to volatile memory and a large capacity nonvolatile memory such as a disk drive . The server may also include a floppy disc drive compact disc CD or DVD disc drive coupled to the processor . The server may also include network access ports coupled to the processor for establishing data connections with a network such as a local area network coupled to other broadcast system computers and servers. The processors may be any programmable microprocessor microcomputer or multiple processor chip or chips that can be configured by software instructions applications to perform a variety of functions including the functions of the various embodiments described above. In some devices multiple processors may be provided such as one processor dedicated to wireless communication functions and one processor dedicated to running other applications. Typically software applications may be stored in the internal memory and before they are accessed and loaded into the processor .

The processor may include internal memory sufficient to store the application software instructions. In many devices the internal memory may be a volatile or nonvolatile memory such as flash memory or a mixture of both. For the purposes of this description a general reference to memory refers to memory accessible by the processor including internal memory or removable memory plugged into the device and memory within the processor itself.

The foregoing method descriptions and the process flow diagrams are provided merely as illustrative examples and are not intended to require or imply that the steps of the various embodiments must be performed in the order presented. As will be appreciated by one of skill in the art the order of steps in the foregoing embodiments may be performed in any order. Words such as thereafter then next etc. are not intended to limit the order of the steps these words are simply used to guide the reader through the description of the methods. Further any reference to claim elements in the singular for example using the articles a an or the is not to be construed as limiting the element to the singular.

As used in this application the terms component module system engine interface reference point manager and the like are intended to include a computer related entity such as but not limited to hardware firmware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution which are configured to perform particular operations or functions. For example a component may be but is not limited to a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program a computer and or a network of computers. By way of illustration both an application running on a computing device and the computing device may be referred to as a component. One or more components may reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one processor or core and or distributed between two or more processors or cores. In addition these components may execute from various non transitory computer readable media having various instructions and or data structures stored thereon. Components may communicate by way of local and or remote processes function or procedure calls electronic signals data packets memory read writes and other known network computer processor and or process related communication methodologies.

The various illustrative logical blocks modules circuits and algorithm steps described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented as electronic hardware computer software or combinations of both. To clearly illustrate this interchangeability of hardware and software various illustrative components blocks modules circuits and steps have been described above generally in terms of their functionality. Whether such functionality is implemented as hardware or software depends upon the particular application and design constraints imposed on the overall system. Skilled artisans may implement the described functionality in varying ways for each particular application but such implementation decisions should not be interpreted as causing a departure from the scope of the present invention.

The hardware used to implement the various illustrative logics logical blocks modules and circuits described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented or performed with a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor may be any conventional processor controller microcontroller or state machine A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration. Alternatively some steps or methods may be performed by circuitry that is specific to a given function.

In one or more exemplary embodiments the functions described may be implemented in hardware software firmware or any combination thereof. If implemented in software the functions may be stored on as one or more instructions or code on a non transitory computer readable storage medium. The steps of a method or algorithm disclosed herein may be embodied in a processor executable software module which may reside or be stored on a non transitory computer readable storage medium or processor readable medium. Non transitory computer readable and processor readable storage media may be any available media that may be accessed by a computer or processor. By way of example and not limitation such non transitory computer readable media may include RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that may be used to store desired program code in the form of instructions or data structures and that may be accessed by a computer. Disk and disc as used herein includes compact disc CD laser disc optical disc digital versatile disc DVD floppy disk and blu ray disc where disks usually reproduce data magnetically while discs reproduce data optically with lasers. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of non transitory computer readable media. Additionally the operations of a method or algorithm may reside as one or any combination or set of codes and or instructions on a non transitory processor readable medium and or computer readable medium which may be incorporated into a computer program product.

The preceding description of the disclosed embodiments is provided to enable any person skilled in the art to make or use the present invention. Various modifications to these embodiments will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art and the generic principles defined herein may be applied to other embodiments without departing from the scope of the invention. Thus the present invention is not intended to be limited to the embodiments shown herein but is to be accorded the widest scope consistent with the principles and novel features disclosed herein.

