---

title: Drive control apparatus that drives actuator, electronic apparatus that drives actuator, and control method for driving actuator
abstract: A drive control apparatus includes a storage configured to store waveform data representing a drive signal constituted of a sine wave satisfying a frequency f=(m/n)×f (m and n are mutually different positive odd numbers), the drive signal applying vibration (m/2)×Q times (Q is a natural number other than 0) to an actuator, the f representing a resonant frequency of the actuator, and a drive controller configured to read the waveform data stored in the storage, and output the drive signal corresponding to the read waveform data to the actuator.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09606628&OS=09606628&RS=09606628
owner: FUJITSU LIMITED
number: 09606628
owner_city: Kawasaki
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20151221
---
This application is a continuation application of International Application PCT JP2013 067544 filed on Jun. 26 2013 and designated the U.S. the entire contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.

The disclosures discussed herein relate to a drive control apparatus an electronic apparatus and a drive control method.

Related art electronic apparatuses include a flat touch panel as an input unit. Such a touch panel is configured to receive contact to the touch panel as input operations but does not provide tactile senses according to different input operations. The related art touch panel has thus been desired to incorporate a device capable of providing the tactile senses according to the different input operations.

Thus in order to provide tactile senses according to the different input operations attempts have been made to utilize vibrations generated by an LRA linear resonant actuator . Further Japanese Laid open Patent Publication No. 2012 20284 Patent Document 1 proposes an example of a technology for driving the LRA and a dedicated IC an integrated circuit for controlling a tactile presenting device.

However the vibrations generated by the LRA do not immediately stop even if a user stops inputting and hence the vibrations produced by the LRA may fail to provide quick responding tactile senses generated by a user pressing a metal dome button. Moreover Patent Document 1 proposes an example of a vibration control unit configured to input an antiphase signal immediately after the input by the LRA has been stopped however a more satisfactory suppression effect may be required. The related art technology may thus require distinctively differentiated tactile senses according to different types of operations.

Hence it is desirable to provide a drive control apparatus an electronic apparatus and a drive control method capable of providing tactile senses according to different operations.

According to an aspect of an embodiment there is provided a drive control apparatus that includes a storage configured to store waveform data representing a drive signal constituted of a sine wave satisfying a frequency f m n f m and n are mutually different positive odd numbers the drive signal applying vibration m 2 Q times Q is a natural number other than 0 to an actuator the f representing a resonant frequency of the actuator and a drive controller configured to read the waveform data stored in the storage and output the drive signal corresponding to the read waveform data to the actuator.

The object and advantages of the invention will be realized and attained by means of the elements and combinations particularly pointed out in the appended claims.

It is to be understood that both the foregoing general description and the following detailed description are exemplary and explanatory and are not restrictive of the invention as claimed.

First a description is given of an outline of a first embodiment with reference to . are diagrams illustrating an outline of the first embodiment.

The vibration illustrated by the waveform rapidly dampens in one to several periods. By contrast the vibration illustrated by the waveform continues until free vibration by a natural frequency of LRA dampens after the drive signal being supplied have been stopped. In the following illustration the free vibration by a natural frequency of LRA continues after the drive signals being supplied has been stopped is called residual vibration.

Note that human fingers generally fail to feel or sense vibrations when the acceleration of vibrations reaches 0.02 G or less at the vibration frequency of 200 Hz. The vibration frequency represents the number of vibrations per second. The acceleration of vibration represents a change in the vibration velocity per unit time. is a diagram illustrating sensitivity of an acceleration sensing organ or an acceleration sensory receptor of humans. Note that acceleration sensory receptors of humans correspond to Pacinian corpuscles. Pacinian corpuscles are one of the four major types of mechanoreceptors mainly observed in the skin.

That is in the waveform the finger fails to sense the vibrations within 0.01 s because the vibration acceleration reaches 0.02 G or less within 0.01 s. By contrast in the waveform 0.1 s is required until the vibration acceleration reaches 0.02 G or less so that the finger continues to sense the vibrations until 0.1 s has elapsed. Accordingly humans will sense or feel the vibrations illustrated by the waveform and the vibrations illustrated by the waveform as completely different tactile senses.

According to this embodiment the vibrations rapidly damping in one to several periods are generated by controlling the residual vibrations to express a click feeling.

The first embodiment focuses on the fact that the residual vibrations are not generated after the vibrations of the LRA stop in one to several periods by supplying to LRA a drive signal that satisfies a specific condition and supplying the drive signal satisfying such a specific condition to the LRA .

The following describes an outline of a first embodiment with reference to . is a diagram illustrating an electronic apparatus of the first embodiment.

The electronic apparatus of the first embodiment may be any apparatus insofar as the apparatus includes a touch panel with a display function and an input function serving as an input unit. Examples of such an electronic apparatus include smartphones tablet computers and mobile information terminals.

The electronic apparatus of the first embodiment includes a housing a touch panel a double sided tape an LRA and a substrate .

In the electronic apparatus the touch panel is attached to the housing with the double sided tape . The LRA is attached to a housing side face of the touch panel . The LRA is composed of a vibration system having a predesigned resonant frequency and an actuator. The LRA serves as a vibration device configured to produce vibrations by being driven at the resonant frequency and the vibrating quantity may change according to amplitudes of the drive waveform. The details of the LRA will be described later. Note that in the first embodiment the LRA is an example of a vibrator. However the vibrator is not limited to the LRA and may be any vibrator insofar as the vibrator includes a resonator and a vibration actuator.

The substrate is disposed inside the housing . The substrate implements a drive control apparatus configured to drive the LRA and a driver IC configured to output a drive signal to the LRA .

In the electronic apparatus of the first embodiment when a user s finger touches the touch panel the sensed finger s touch causes the drive control apparatus implemented in the substrate to drive the LRA and the vibrations of the LRA are propagated to the touch panel .

Note that the electronic apparatus may simply include the touch panel and the input unit and hence the electronic apparatus may be an apparatus that is installed in a specific place such as an ATM automatic teller machine .

The following describes an outline of a first embodiment with reference to . are diagrams illustrating an example of the LRA. is a diagram illustrating an example of the LRA having a voice coil and is an example of the LRA having a piezoelectric element.

The LRA illustrated in includes a spring a magnet and a voice coil . In the LRA when k represents the spring constant of the spring and m represents mass of the magnet the natural frequency f is expressed by the following formula 1 .

Next an illustration is given with reference to of a drive control apparatus implemented in the substrate included in the electronic apparatus of the first embodiment. is a diagram illustrating a drive control apparatus of the first embodiment.

The drive control apparatus of the first embodiment includes a CPU central processing unit and a memory . The CPU reads a drive control program stored in a memory and executes the read drive control program to perform a later described drive process of the LRA . The memory includes a first storage area storing the drive control program used for driving the LRA and a second area storing waveform data and a third area storing an API application programming interface providing tactile senses.

The drive control program causes the CPU to execute a drive control process of the LRA . The waveform data represent drive waveform data generated in advance in order to provide a click feeling due to vibrations generated by the LRA . The details of the waveform data will be described later. The API is activated by the drive control program to perform various kinds of processes for providing the tactile senses. In the example of the API is stored in the memory however the API may be stored in another memory implemented in the substrate .

When the drive control apparatus of the first embodiment detects contact with respect to the touch panel step S the drive control apparatus activates the API step S . Specifically the drive control apparatus is allowed to activate the API when detecting the contact with respect to a button displayed on the touch panel .

The API reads the waveform data stored in the memory and outputs drive commands corresponding to the waveform data to a driver IC step S . The driver IC receives the drive commands performs a D A digital to analog conversion on the waveform data step S and amplifies the converted result by an amplifier or the like step S . The driver IC outputs the amplified signal to the LRA step S .

The following illustrates the waveform data of the first embodiment. The waveform data of the first embodiment represents a waveform of the drive signal that satisfies a specific condition to stop residual vibrations.

The drive signal that satisfies the specific condition constitutes a signal of a frequency f expressed by f m n f m and n are natural numbers other than 0 and m n that vibrates the LRA m times where f represents the natural frequency hereinafter called a resonant frequency of the LRA .

The LRA of the first embodiment includes as illustrated in the resonant frequency of f 175 Hz the weight of 1.5 g and the spring constant supporting the weight of 1813.5 N m.

The drive signal of the first embodiment has a frequency f represented by f 2 1 175 350 Hz where m 2 and n 1 are applied . When the frequency is f the drive signal F obtains a waveform illustrated in . In the example of the drive signal is F 0.01 sin 2 f. Since m 2 is applied in the drive signal F of the drive signal F is a sine wave of two periods.

In this embodiment data indicating the drive signal F illustrated in are stored as the waveform data in the memory . The waveform data may for example include a value of the frequency f of the drive signal F values of the amplitude and phase values of m and n and the like. Further the waveform data may serve as data indicating the waveform itself of the drive signal F.

In this embodiment the frequency f of the drive signal F may preferably be set to have an error being 1 or less with respect to m n f. When the frequency f is set as above the vibration acceleration reaches 0.02 G or less which is the lower sensitivity limit of humans and is not detected by humans. Hence the click feeling will not be disrupted.

The drive control apparatus of the first embodiment reads the waveform data illustrating the drive signal F by the API in step S of and outputs the drive commands corresponding to the waveform data to the driver IC . The driver IC performs the D A conversion on the waveform data amplifies the converted result and outputs the amplified signal to the LRA .

An illustration is given of an example of the drive control apparatus of the first embodiment in which the drive signal F is supplied to the LRA .

When the drive signal F is supplied to the LRA harmonic force of the frequency f is generated by the actuator for example the LRA and forced vibration of frequency f and free vibration of frequency f are excited simultaneously. Thus the displacement of the LRA becomes a synthesized wave of the forced vibration and the free vibration.

In a waveform indicated by a broken line represents a forced vibration component y of the vibration displacement that is obtained by supplying the drive signal F to the LRA and a waveform indicated by a solid line represents a free vibration component y. A response displacement y obtained by supplying the drive signal F to the LRA is a synthesized wave of the forced vibration component y and the free vibration component y.

The vibrations of the LRA are stopped at the timing T where the drive signal F becomes 0 because the vibration velocity of the LRA and the vibration acceleration become 0.

As illustrated in the waveform of the velocity y and the waveform of the acceleration y reach 0 at the timing at which the response displacement y reaches 0 that is the vibration of the LRA stops at the timing T.

At this moment the waveform of the acceleration y stops in two periods within 0.01 s. According to the example of the vibration acceleration reaches 0.02 G or less within 0.01 s and the click feeling by pressing a button may thus be represented.

Note that m 2 and n 1 are specified in the first embodiment m and n are not limited to these values. In the first embodiment m and n may be any values insofar as m and n are natural numbers other than 0 and m n. Note that the relationship between m and n may preferably satisfy m n.

The following illustrates an effect of the first embodiment with reference to . are diagrams illustrating the vibration acceleration of the LRA when the drive signal supplied is a sine wave of the resonant frequency of the LRA .

As illustrated in when the sine wave of the resonant frequency f is used as the drive signal the residual vibration appears for 0.1 s or longer.

Note that in the LRA includes the resonant frequency of f 175 Hz the weight of 1.5 g and the spring constant supporting the weight of 1813.5 N m.

In the example of the residual vibration is small compared to the residual vibration in . However 0.05 s or longer is required until the vibration acceleration reaches 0.02 G or less which is the lower sensory limit of humans.

As illustrated in when the sine wave of the resonant frequency that does not satisfy the specific condition is supplied as the drive signal the residual vibration appears for 0.04 s or longer.

As illustrated in the acceleration of the residual vibration after 0.02 s reaches 0.02 G or less which is the lower sensitivity limit of humans and the vibration waveform is a short time waveform.

Thus when the drive signal is a signal of a frequency f expressed by f m n f m and n are natural numbers other than 0 and m n that vibrates the LRA m times where f represents the resonance frequency of the LRA the waveform of the vibration generated by the LRA may eliminate the residual vibration. Further the waveform of the vibration acceleration of the touch panel in the actual apparatus implementing the LRA is a short time waveform representing a rapid damping in one to several periods to provide the click feeling.

Next an illustration is given of displacement x of an object having a mass M illustrated in . is a diagram illustrating a vibration system having an object and a spring .

In M represents a mass of the object and the object is connected to a lower end of the spring . Further K represents a spring constant of the spring . An upper end of the spring is a fixed end and the lower end of the spring is a free end.

Note that in an origin is determined as a position a balance position of the object suspended from the spring without applying force to the object and displacement of the object with respect to the origin is expressed by x. A positive direction of the displacement x indicates a vertical and downward direction.

In addition when represents a natural angular frequency of the free vibration of the object in the vibration system the natural angular frequency is expressed by the following formula 3 and the frequency f of the free vibration is f 2 .

The displacement x of the object obtained by the application of the forced vibration to the object is expressed by the following formula 4 .

As is obvious from the formula 4 the displacement x of the object is expressed as a synthesis of the free vibration component and the forced vibration component. This indicates similar to the illustration already given above with reference to . That is when the forced vibration component y and the free vibration component y of the vibration displacement generated by supplying the drive signal F to the LRA are applied the response displacement y obtained by supplying the drive signal F to the LRA will be a sum of the forced vibration component y and the free vibration component y.

Note that similar to the illustration in illustrates the free vibration the forced vibration and the response vibration expressed by the formula 4 when the harmonic force F sin pt is applied to the object as the sine wave drive signal satisfying the specific condition. The response vibration is applied as synthesized vibration of the free vibration and the forced vibration.

Note that illustrates the waveforms obtained by vibrating the object by the application of the harmonic force where the frequency f of the forced vibration is f 5 4 f m 5 n 4 .

As can be seen from the displacement the velocity and the acceleration of the response vibration in the velocity and the acceleration of the response vibration become 0 at the timing 1 and 2 where the displacement x becomes 0. The timing 1 is where the harmonic force is applied 4 times and the timing 2 is where the harmonic force is applied 8 times.

Note that in the following whether there are other timings at which the displacement the velocity and the acceleration of the response vibration are all 0 is determined.

The displacement x the velocity x that is a primary time differential of the displacement x and the acceleration x that is a secondary time differential of the displacement x are expressed by the following formulas 5 .

Hence when f m n f expressed by the formula 13 and t 1 f m 2 b expressed by the formula 14 are both satisfied the displacement x and the acceleration x are both 0. That is the displacement x and the acceleration x are both 0 when the harmonic force is applied m 2 b times of vibration periods because 1 f means time length of 1 period vibration of frequency f. Namely both x and x becomes 0 every time that harmonic force is applied m 2 periods.

In addition to the displacement x and the acceleration x setting x 0 in the formulas 5 the following formula 15 is obtained. cos cos 0 15 This equation may holds for the two cases as noted below in the formulas 16 . cos cos 0 cos cos 0 16 Initially the first case A is considered. Substituting the formula 11 to the first case the following formula 17 is obtained.

In the case A 1 parity of m and n is arbitrary. Therefore writing b 2c c 1 2 3 . . . and substituting to the formula 14 the following formula 20 is obtained.

Hence when the object is vibrated at f m n f and t 1 f m c expressed by the formula 20 is established the velocity x becomes 0 in addition to the displacement x and the acceleration x .

This condition is similar to the condition illustrated in . And furthermore in the case A 2 writing b 2c 1 c 1 2 3 . . . and substituting to the formula 14 the following formula 21 is obtained.

Where k 1 is self evident because of p. Substituting the formula 25 to the formula 14 the following formula 26 is obtained.

Accordingly the velocity x expressed by the formula 5 becomes 0 in addition to the displacement x being 0 and the acceleration x being 0 when the object is vibrated m times at the frequency f where Q is an natural number other than 0 and when the object is vibrated m 2 Q times at the frequency f where n and m are both odd numbers. Among the above conditions the former is the same condition as that illustrated in and the latter condition is newly obtained. The latter condition indicates that the object is vibrated m 2 Q times at the frequency f where n and m are both odd numbers. The following illustrates the latter condition with reference to .

As illustrated in the displacement the velocity and the acceleration of the response vibration are all 0 at the timing 1 at which the object is vibrated 5 2 times. Similarly the displacement the velocity and the acceleration of the response vibration are all 0 at the timing 2 at which the object is vibrated 5 times. The timing 2 corresponds to a case where m and n are odd numbers in the operation condition illustrated in .

As described above according to the first embodiment the displacement the velocity and the acceleration of the response vibration may all be 0 when the object is vibrated m 2 Q times at the frequency f m n f where n and m are both odd numbers. Note that Q is a natural number other than 0 and Q 1 2 . . . .

Accordingly in a case where waveform data to vibrate the object m 2 Q times at the frequency f m n f where n and m are both odd numbers are stored in the memory as the waveform data representing the drive signal to drive the LRA the click feeling may be presented by the vibration generated by the LRA at a time where a user operates the touch panel .

The click feeling presented at the timing 1 illustrated in is implemented within half the vibration period of the click feeling presented at the timing 2 . Hence a more distinct click feeling may be provided.

As described above the click feeling presented at the timing 1 is implemented by half the vibration period of the click feeling presented at the timing 2 . Accordingly to set the frequency of the forced vibration between 200 Hz and 500 Hz the operation points at the timing 1 may interpolate intervals between the operation points at the timing 2 . Specifically since the operation points at the timing 2 may be discrete on the high frequency side the interpolation by the operation points at the timing 1 may be advantageous.

When the frequency of the forced vibration is set in the actual electronic apparatus actually selectable operation points may be restricted due to the consideration of the natural frequency of the touch panel or limitation such as the operation points being on the high frequency side.

However a range of the selectable operation points for setting the frequency of the forced vibration may be increased since the operation points at the timing 1 are obtained to interpolate intervals between the operation points at the timing 2 .

In addition the electronic apparatus of the first embodiment includes a configuration in which the LRA is attached to a surface on a housing side of the touch panel however the electronic apparatus of the first embodiment is not limited to this configuration. For example the LRA may be disposed close to the substrate disposed inside the housing .

In the following an illustration is given of a second embodiment with reference to the accompanying drawings. The second embodiment describes an example in which the resonant frequency f is measured in a configuration in which the LRA is incorporated in the electronic apparatus . The illustration of the second embodiment merely describes a difference from the first embodiment. Further components of the second embodiment having functions similar to the components of the first embodiment are provided with the same reference numbers as those used in the first embodiment and a duplicated illustration is thus omitted from the specification.

In the second embodiment the resonant frequency of the touch panel is measured in a configuration of the electronic apparatus that incorporates the LRA . Further in the second embodiment the resonant frequency is used to calculate a frequency f of the drive signal F.

The CPU A reads the later described frequency measuring program from the memory A and executes the read frequency measuring program to measure and reset the later described resonant frequency f .

The memory A stores the frequency measuring program and design value data in addition to the drive control program the waveform data and the API .

The frequency measuring program includes commands to cause the CPU A to execute a measuring process of the resonant frequency f of the LRA in a configuration of the electronic apparatus that may for example incorporate the LRA . The design value data are predetermined when the electronic apparatus is designed. The design value data of the second embodiment may be a resonant frequency f unique to the LRA for example.

In the following a description is given of the measurement of the resonant frequency in the second embodiment.

In the second embodiment when commands for measuring the resonant frequency f are supplied to the electronic apparatus step S the CPU A reads the frequency measuring program . In the second embodiment the commands for measuring the resonant frequency f may be supplied at a time at which a process of incorporating the LRA and the touch panel into the housing or at the time of shipping in a production process of the electronic apparatus .

The frequency measuring program causes the CPU A to supply the sine wave of frequencies to the LRA as the drive signal in a predetermined frequency band step S . Specifically the CPU A may for example supply the drive signal to the LRA such as a sine wave having a frequency of 100 Hz a sine wave having a frequency of 110 Hz . . . a sine wave having a frequency of 290 Hz and a sine wave having a frequency of 300 Hz in a frequency band range of 100 to 300 Hz.

The frequency measuring program causes the CPU A to store in the memory A the maximum value of the acceleration of the vibration of the touch panel for each of the drive signals having different frequencies step S . Specifically the electronic apparatus includes a not illustrated built in accelerometer and detects the maximum value of the acceleration of the vibration of the touch panel every time the drive signal having a different frequency is supplied to the LRA . The memory A is provided with an area storing computational results obtained by the frequency measuring program and temporarily stores the maximum value of the acceleration for each of the drive signals.

Subsequently the frequency measuring program causes the CPU A to select a frequency of the drive signal obtaining the maximum value of the acceleration from those stored in the memory A step S . Subsequently the frequency measuring program causes the CPU A to determine the selected frequency of the drive signal as the resonant frequency f and overwrite the design value data of the memory A with the resonant frequency f step S .

In the second embodiment this process changes the resonant frequency f to the resonant frequency f . Accordingly in the second embodiment the frequency f of the drive signal for controlling the residual vibration is f m n f .

Accordingly when the vibrations of the touch panel or the housing are superimposed on the LRA the drive signal f may be calculated based on the resonant frequency of the touch panel that is directly touched by the user s fingers. Hence the present embodiment directly provides the tactile sense of the short time waveform representing the rapid damping with respect to the user within one to several periods to present the clicking sense.

Note that in this embodiment the resonant frequency f is measured by the frequency measuring program however the resonant frequency f may be measured outside the electronic apparatus and the design value data of the memory A may be overwritten with the measured resonant frequency f .

The examples and embodiments of the drive control apparatus the electronic apparatus the non transitory recording medium storing the drive control program have been described above in detail however it should not be construed that the present invention is limited to those specific examples and embodiments described above. Various changes or alternations may be made within the scope of the invention.

All examples and conditional language recited herein are intended for pedagogical purposes to aid the reader in understanding the invention and the concepts contributed by the inventor to furthering the art and are to be construed as being without limitation to such specifically recited examples and conditions nor does the organization of such examples in the specification relate to a showing of the superiority or inferiority of the invention. Although the embodiments of the present invention have been described in detail it should be understood that the various changes substitutions and alterations could be made hereto without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention.

