---

title: Start and stop moving notification triggers for location based tracking
abstract: A tracking system in which positioning alerts are communicated to a first user device from a second user device, the tracking system including a positioning sensor that determines a current location of the second user device; a controller in communication with the positioning sensor; and a memory including instructions to: receive a first set of current locations from the positioning sensor, generate, at a start of a candidacy period, a candidate geofence including the first set, receive a second set of current locations from the positioning sensor, when, by an end of the candidacy period, the entirety of the second is within the candidate geofence, communicate a stop motion message to the first user device, receive a third set of current locations from the positioning sensor, and when any of the third set is outside an active geofence, communicate a start motion message to the first user device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09307361&OS=09307361&RS=09307361
owner: ZOS Communications, LLC
number: 09307361
owner_city: Webster
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150324
---
This application incorporates by reference and claims the benefit of priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 969 614 filed Mar. 24 2014 and U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 62 078 393 filed Nov. 11 2014.

The present subject matter relates generally to a device for location based tracking. More specifically the present invention relates to a device carried by a user that alerts other users when a given device has started or stopped moving without requiring pre defined geofences.

Location aware tracking devices usually work using pre defined geofences. For example if a parent was trying to track a child s movements the parent might draw a geofence around the child s school. When the child enters or exits the pre defined geofence the parent will receive a notification on an external system configured to alert the parent.

Existing technology requires that users of location based tracking draw these geofences in order to receive the notifications. This requirement creates flaws in the system. First drawing geofences can be time consuming and error prone. But more importantly the user may not know ahead of time all the areas where geofences should be drawn. For example a parent might draw a geofence around their child s school because the parent knows the child goes to school everyday. But the parent would not draw geofences around the other locations the child might visit after school. So if the child went to a friend s house after school the parent would receive a notification when the child left school but not when the child left the friend s house.

Accordingly there is a need for a location based tracking mechanism that includes start and stop motion triggers and does not require pre defined geofences as described herein.

To meet the needs described above and others the present disclosure provides a location based tracking system for tracking an asset. The location based tracking system includes start and stop motion triggers and do not require pre defined geofences.

By providing start and stop motion triggers the user may track an asset by receiving notices when the asset stops and when the asset starts moving again. This allows the user to track the asset without having prior knowledge of where the device will be located when the conditions for location based tracking will be met. Additionally once the asset has stopped moving the location based tracking mechanism may automatically create a geofence around the asset such that the user will receive a notification when the asset has left the newly defined area.

The user may track the asset by tagging the asset with an asset device that is capable of detecting motion and is linked with a user device that may receive notifications. A tracking server may be in communication with the asset device and the user device to track the asset device and provide start motion and stop motion messages to the user device. The asset device the tracking server and a user device or a combination of the three may accomplish the tracking of the asset device as will be understood based on the teachings provided herein.

The asset device may be configured such that it determines its current location once it detects motion. Once the asset device moves a given distance the tracking system may notify the user device of the movement event. The user device may include mobile devices or email accounts that have been configured to receive notifications when the start and stop motion triggers have been met.

In some embodiments the tracking system may be configured so that it does not send a stop motion notification until the asset device has stopped moving for a set amount of time such as one minute or five minutes. In one example a parent may place the asset device on a child s backpack. Then if the child stows his backpack in a locker when she arrives at school the asset device may remain stationary long enough to trigger the stop notification.

Additionally once the asset device stops the tracking system may automatically create its own geofence so that only movement outside of the area creates a notification. For example if the asset device is stopped for the pre determined amount of time the tracking system may automatically construct an active geofence with a given pre determined radius such as ten meters. The asset device may move within that radius without triggering a start motion message. But once the asset device moves outside of the active geofence the start motion trigger will be met and the user device may receive a notification saying that the asset has started moving which indicates that the device has left the radial geofence location. In some embodiments if the asset device moves outside of the active geofence but re enters the active geofence before the end of the delay time the active geofence may be expanded to include the location points outside the active geofence during that period.

In one embodiment the tracking system may use a continuous test method that periodically generates a candidate geofence encompassing the current location of the asset device. The tracking system may then monitor the location of the asset device for a candidacy period. If the asset device does not exit the candidate geofence at any time during the candidacy period the tracking system may determine the stop motion trigger is met. Further if the asset device does not exit the candidate geofence within the candidacy period the candidate geofence may be confirmed as the active geofence for that location. If at the end of the candidacy period the candidate geofence and the active geofence overlap the tracking system may merge the candidate geofence and the active geofence into a merged geofence and make it the active geofence.

The start motion message and the stop motion message may be communicated to the user device as notifications through a variety of notification channels such as SMS messaging push messaging email messaging phone calls social network messaging mobile device notifications etc. Notifications may include the current locations of the asset device and may include a mechanism to access a map showing the real time location history of the asset to permit the user to track the asset.

An object of the invention is to provide a solution to location based tracking that notifies the user when a device starts or stops moving without having pre knowledge of where the device is located when the conditions are met.

An advantage of the invention is that it provides a solution to location based tracking that alerts the user if the device stops anywhere and not just at the places where the user has created a geofence.

Another advantage of the invention is that it takes less time to implement because the user does not have to draw geofences.

A further advantage of the invention is that it may be customized to deliver alerts after the device has stopped for a set amount time or moved outside a set radius.

Additional objects advantages and novel features of the examples will be set forth in part in the description which follows and in part will become apparent to those skilled in the art upon examination of the following description and the accompanying drawings or may be learned by production or operation of the examples. The objects and advantages of the concepts may be realized and attained by means of the methodologies instrumentalities and combinations particularly pointed out in the appended claims.

In an embodiment the tracking server may routinely compare the asset s location history with a start motion trigger and a stop motion trigger to determine whether the asset has started or stopped moving respectively. When the location history of an asset matches or triggers a start motion trigger the tracking system may communicate a start motion message to the user device and or trigger other functionality associated with the start motion trigger . Likewise when the location history matches a stop motion trigger the system may in turn communicate a stop motion message to the user device and or carry out functionality previously associated with a stop motion trigger .

As used herein a start motion trigger is a criterion or criteria monitored by the asset device or the tracking server that when met triggers a start motion message . Likewise a stop motion trigger is a criterion or criteria monitored by the device that when met triggers a stop motion message . The triggering of a start motion message or a stop motion message may in turn trigger user notifications and other functionality. For example when the user device receives a start motion message it may display a start motion notification to notify the user that the asset has started moving. Likewise when the user device receives a stop motion message the user device may display a stop motion notification to notify the user that the asset has stopped moving.

As shown in the asset device may be a mobile device such as a smartphone running an asset device application to provide the functionality described herein. In an embodiment the asset device application may include a start motion trigger and a stop motion trigger to carry out the functionality described herein. The asset device may include wireless communication subsystem to communicate with the tracking server and the user device . The asset device may further include a positioning sensor to detect the current location of the asset device the positioning sensor may include a GPS unit and or may include functionality for cellular triangulation Wi Fi positioning etc. In some embodiments the asset device may carry out some or all of the functionality of the tracking server . For example the asset device may include the controller memory database etc. and the controller of the asset device may determine when start motion triggers and stop motion triggers have been met.

The user device may also be a mobile device such as a smartphone. Alternatively the user device may be a cloud based computer. The user device may be used by a parent to track a child a business tracking a physical asset etc. The user device may include a wireless communication subsystem to communicate with the tracking server and the asset device . The user device may include a user device application to carry out the functionality of the user device as described herein.

The user device application may use an API of the tracking server to control the behavior of the tracking server when the start motion trigger and the stop motion trigger are met. For example the user device application may provide a web callback URL that is triggered upon a start motion trigger and or stop motion trigger . The web callback URL may be point to a resource of the user device or may point to a resource of another web connected computer.

It is contemplated that the tracking system in addition to being provided as an independent system for tracking an asset may be provided as a subsystem as a part of a third party application. In an embodiment the tracking server provides tracking services to a third party application developer that has provided the asset device application and the user device application . The third party application developer may adapt the asset device application and the user device application to interact with the tracking server via an application programming interface API . In this way the third party application developer may eliminate the costly development of location tracking functionality.

The third party application developer may define functionality that occurs when a start motion trigger or stop motion trigger is triggered. For example when a start motion trigger is met the tracking server may use a web URL callback to communicate the start motion message to the user device . Likewise when a stop motion trigger is triggered the tracking server may use a web URL callback to communicate the stop motion message to the user device . The web URL callback may include an identification of the asset or asset device an identification of the trigger such as a start motion trigger or stop motion trigger a message etc.

In another embodiment a start motion trigger is met when the asset device is moving at a velocity indicating travel for example the asset is traveling in a car. In another embodiment a start motion trigger may be met by a series of measurements of location points along a substantially straight line indicating that the asset is moving directionally. In further embodiments the acceleration of the asset device as may be measured by an accelerometer of the positioning sensor may be used to determine that the asset device is moving in a car. For example the start motion trigger may be met when the asset device exceeds a threshold acceleration.

Once the start motion trigger has been met the tracking system may continuously monitor the current location of the asset device to determine if the asset has stopped at another location. The location history may be periodically updated with the current location . It is contemplated that the asset maintaining the same location for a period of time is not necessarily sufficient to determine being whether the asset stopped at the location. For example once the child has reached school the child may be detected as in motion as she moves from classroom to classroom even though for the purpose of the user tracking the child the child is considered by the user to be stopped at the school .

Accordingly in an embodiment a stop motion trigger may be met when an asset has stayed within a candidate geofence for a predetermined candidacy period . The tracking system may use a continuous test method that periodically generates a candidate geofence encompassing the current location of the asset device . The tracking system may then monitor the location of the asset device for a candidacy period . If the asset device does not exit the candidate geofence at any time during the candidacy period the tracking system may determine the stop motion trigger is met. Further if the asset device does not exit the candidate geofence within the candidacy period the candidate geofence may be confirmed as the active geofence for that location.

In an embodiment the candidate geofence may be centered on the current location and may encompass a predefined radius around the current location . The candidacy period and the predefined radius may be set by the user using the user device . The candidacy period and the predefined radius may be stored in the profile . The user may adjust the candidacy period to increase or decrease the sensitivity of the tracking system to improve precision sensitivity accuracy etc. Alternatively the candidacy period and the predefined radius may be a fixed parameter of the tracking system .

In once the child reaches the school and stops the location based tracking system may determine that a stop motion trigger has been met and may in turn communicate a stop motion message to the user device . The stop motion message that may then be displayed to the user as a stop motion notification informing the user that the child has stopped. Additionally the tracking system may generate a geofence at the current location . For example when by the end of the period all of the one or more location points are within the candidate geofence the tracking system may accept the candidate geofence as the active geofence .

Additionally the tracking system may modify the candidate geofence before making it the active geofence . Modification of the candidate geofence permits the tracking system to create an active geofence that accurately outlines the location the asset has stopped at. For example the candidate geofence may be increased or decreased in size and then made the active geofence . Or the candidate geofence may be reshaped to take into account nearby streets. In an embodiment the candidate geofence may be expanded or contracted to match the edges of nearby streets or buildings as may be determined by referencing a mapping database. When reshaping the candidate geofence the candidate geofence may be expanded after the reshaping to provide an additional buffer margin.

As shown in in some embodiments the start motion trigger may include a delay time to prevent incorrect triggering. For example when a user device moves outside of an active geofence the location based tracking system may wait until the end of the delay time before making a determination that the start motion trigger has been met. If the asset device re enters the active geofence during the delay time then the start motion trigger is not met. However if by the end of the delay time the asset device has not re entered the active geofence the start motion trigger may be met and a start motion message may be sent to the user device . In some embodiments if the asset device moves outside of the active geofence but re enters the active geofence before the end of the delay time the active geofence may be expanded to include the location points outside the active geofence during that period.

Turning to in some embodiments overlapping or nearby geofences may be automatically merged to form a larger geofence to provide adaptive discovery of the boundaries of a location. For example if a child is at school geofences may be generated and stored in the profile for each classroom of the child as the child moves around the school . However since the geofences are nearby each other a larger geofence may be generated to encompass all of the smaller geofences . It is contemplated that geofences may be generated by a variety of methods and that multiple methods may be used simultaneously and combined to provide for greater accuracy in geofence generation.

In one embodiment detailed in when the child exits the active geofence the tracking system may begin using the continuous test method described with respect to to test for a stop motion trigger . For example the tracking system may generate candidate geofences be centered on the current location of the asset device . If at the end of the candidacy period the candidate geofence and the active geofence overlap the tracking system may merge the candidate geofence and the active geofence into a merged geofence and make it the active geofence .

Turning to in an embodiment a stop motion trigger may be met by the asset device entering a previously created geofence . shows the child having left the school and making his way to the baseball park . Once the child exits the merged geofence surrounding the school the user device may receive a start motion notification as shown in that the child has started moving.

A previously defined geofence encompassing the baseball park may be stored in the profile . Once the asset device has passed into the previously defined geofence a stop motion trigger may be met. Accordingly the user device may receive a stop motion notification that the asset and the asset device have stopped. The tracking system may then make the previously defined geofence the active geofence for the start motion trigger .

Turning to the start motion message and the stop motion message may be communicated to the user device as notifications through a variety of notification channels such as SMS messaging push messaging email messaging phone calls social network messaging mobile device notifications etc. Notifications may include the current locations of the asset device and may include a mechanism to access a map showing the real time location history of the asset to permit the user to track the asset . As shown in the start motion message may trigger the display of a start motion notification on a user device interface of the user device . Likewise as shown in the stop motion message may trigger a stop motion notification on the user device interface .

In some embodiments the start motion notification or stop motion notification may include an option to create a geofence . For example the start motion notification and the stop motion notification may be received by the user device application . Upon receipt of the notifications the user device application may display a prompt to provide the user the option of defining a geofence around the asset s current location . The prompt may permit the user to define a radius around the current location of the asset .

First at step the tracking system receives a first set of current locations from the positioning sensor . Second at step the tracking system generates at a start of a candidacy period a candidate geofence including the first set. Third at step the tracking system receives a second set of current locations from the positioning sensor .

A set of current locations may include one or more readings of the current location of the asset device . For example in an embodiment a set of current locations is a single current location of the asset device . In another embodiment a set of current locations may include two readings three readings five readings ten readings twenty readings fifty readings one hundred readings etc. of the current location . In an embodiment a set of current locations may include all readings of the current location during a time period as may be received by the asset device application . Alternatively a set of current location may include a sample or subset of current locations taken during a time period as may be received by the asset device application . For example in some embodiments to reduce noise a set of current locations may exclude current locations that statistically deviate from the other readings in the set in order to for example exclude reading errors. A deviation threshold of one standard deviation or more two standard deviations or more three standard deviations or more etc. may be used to exclude current locations .

If the candidate fence is broken before the end of the candidacy period the tracking system may return to step to start to generate a new candidate geofence . Thus at step when before the end of the candidacy period any of the second set is outside of the candidate geofence the tracking system returns to the step of receiving a first set of current locations from the positioning sensor .

Alternatively if the candidate fence is not broken the tracking system may make the candidate geofence the active geofence and communicate a stop motion message . Therefore at step when by an end of the candidacy period the entirety of the second set of active locations is within the candidate geofence the tracking system accepts the candidate geofence as the active geofence . And at step when all of the second set is within the candidate geofence by the end of the candidacy period the tracking system communicates a stop motion message to a first user device.

At the end of the candidacy period the tracking system may merge the candidate geofence in the active geofence if they overlap. Accordingly at step when by the end of the candidacy period the entirety of the second set is within the candidate geofence and the active geofence overlaps the candidate geofence the tracking system updates the active geofence to include the candidate geofence .

Once the asset device has come to a stop at a location the tracking system may then begin monitoring for the asset device leaving the location. Therefore at step the tracking system receives a third set of current locations from the positioning sensor . Finally at step when any of the third set is outside an active geofence the tracking system communicates a start motion message to the first user device.

In an embodiment a stop motion trigger may be met by the asset device slowing below a velocity threshold. After a start motion trigger has been triggered the asset device may begin to continuously monitor its velocity. Once the velocity has dropped below a pre determined velocity for a pre determined period of time the device may be determined to meet the stop motion trigger . The tracking system may then communicate a stop motion message to the asset device . Further the tracking system may then additionally generate an active geofence . In other embodiments the deceleration of the asset device may be used to determine that the asset is moving in a vehicle coming to a stop thus meeting a stop motion trigger .

In an embodiment once a stop motion trigger is met the asset device may continuously record the current location of the asset device until a start motion trigger is met and assign each point recorded to a geofence . In this way the asset device may map out a new location to create a comprehensive geofence around the recorded current locations . For example if the child is at school and carrying the asset device the asset device may track the child as the child moves from classroom to classroom expanding the geofence to include each current location visited.

In some embodiments start motion triggers and stop motion triggers may be the output of machine learning or artificial intelligence algorithms such as for example random forests neural nets etc. trained on the profiles of one or more asset devices . For example users may define geofences associated with asset devices as a normal part of using the tracking system . A machine learning model may then be trained using the location history as an input and the defined geofences as a supervisor signal. The tracking system may use the machine learning algorithm to determine start motion triggers and stop motion triggers .

Other information such as accelerometer data Wi Fi data Bluetooth may be collected by the asset device and included in the profile to further be utilized to determine whether a start motion trigger or stop motion trigger has been met. For example the other information may also be used as inputs into the machine learning or artificial intelligence algorithms. Thus for example the tracking system may learn to associate the detection of a school Wi Fi network as a stop motion trigger and or may generate a geofence including points where a school Wife network is detectable. Conversely losing detection of the Wi Fi network could be used as a start motion trigger .

Additionally upon receiving a start motion message or a stop motion message the user device may provide a prompt to permit a user to provide feedback in order to refine the generation of geofences for example to further refine the machine learning or artificial intelligence algorithm. For example if the user device receives a start motion message and the user reviews the assets current location and determines the tracking system erred the user may provide feedback to the tracking system indicating that the asset has not started moving to a new location. Alternatively if the user device receives a stop motion message the user may provide feedback to the user device indicating that the asset is still in motion. 

Machine learning or artificial intelligence algorithms may further be utilized to determine the boundaries of a geofence . For example in one embodiment a clustering algorithm such as hierarchical clustering may be used to cluster a portion of the location history of the asset device into multiple clusters each of which may be used to generate a geofence . In one embodiment a radial geofence may be generated and centered on the centroid of a cluster and may include a radius determined based on the variance of the location points in the cluster. The geofence may be added to the profile in the database of the tracking system . A stop motion trigger may be met when the asset device enters a geofence of the profile .

In some embodiments a stop motion trigger may be met when the asset device detects the nearby presence of a triggering device such as a user device . For example if a child is in proximity to a teacher s user device a parent may configure using her own user device an active geofence to be generated around the teacher s user device . In some embodiments the active geofence may be updated as the teacher s user device moves.

Referring back to the asset device includes a memory interface controllers such as one or more data processors image processors and or central processors and a peripherals interface . The memory interface the one or more controllers and or the peripherals interface can be separate components or can be integrated in one or more integrated circuits. The various components in the asset device can be coupled by one or more communication buses or signal lines as will be recognized by those skilled in the art.

Sensors devices and additional subsystems can be coupled to the peripherals interface to facilitate various functionalities. For example a motion sensor e.g. a gyroscope a light sensor and positioning sensors e.g. GPS receiver accelerometer can be coupled to the peripherals interface to facilitate the orientation lighting and positioning functions described further herein. Other sensors can also be connected to the peripherals interface such as a proximity sensor a temperature sensor a biometric sensor or other sensing device to facilitate related functionalities.

A camera subsystem and an optical sensor e.g. a charged coupled device CCD or a complementary metal oxide semiconductor CMOS optical sensor can be utilized to facilitate camera functions such as recording photographs and video clips.

Communication functions can be facilitated through one or more wireless communication subsystems which can include radio frequency receivers and transmitters and or optical e.g. infrared receivers and transmitters. The specific design and implementation of the communication subsystem can depend on the communication network s over which the asset device is intended to operate. For example the asset device can include communication subsystems designed to operate over a GSM network a GPRS network an EDGE network a Wi Fi or Imax network and a Bluetooth network. In particular the wireless communication subsystems may include hosting protocols such that the asset device may be configured as a base station for other wireless devices.

An audio subsystem can be coupled to a speaker and a microphone to facilitate voice enabled functions such as voice recognition voice replication digital recording and telephony functions.

The I O subsystem can include a touch screen controller and or other input controller s . The touch screen controller can be coupled to a user interface such as a touch screen. The user interface and touch screen controller can for example detect contact and movement or break thereof using any of a plurality of touch sensitivity technologies including but not limited to capacitive resistive infrared and surface acoustic wave technologies as well as other proximity sensor arrays or other elements for determining one or more points of contact with the touch screen . The other input controller s can be coupled to other input control devices such as one or more buttons rocker switches thumb wheel infrared port USB port and or a pointer device such as a stylus. The one or more buttons not shown can include an up down button for volume control of the speaker and or the microphone .

The memory interface can be coupled to memory . The memory can include high speed random access memory and or non volatile memory such as one or more magnetic disk storage devices one or more optical storage devices and or flash memory e.g. NAND NOR . The memory can store operating system instructions such as Darwin RTXC LINUX UNIX OS X iOS ANDROID BLACKBERRY OS BLACKBERRY 10 WINDOWS or an embedded operating system such as VxWorks. The operating system instructions may include instructions for handling basic system services and for performing hardware dependent tasks. In some implementations the operating system instructions can be a kernel e.g. UNIX kernel .

The memory may also store communication instructions to facilitate communicating with one or more additional devices one or more computers and or one or more servers . The memory may include graphical user interface instructions to facilitate graphic user interface processing sensor processing instructions to facilitate sensor related processing and functions phone instructions to facilitate phone related processes and functions electronic messaging instructions to facilitate electronic messaging related processes and functions web browsing instructions to facilitate web browsing related processes and functions media processing instructions to facilitate media processing related processes and functions GPS Navigation instructions to facilitate GPS and navigation related processes and instructions camera instructions to facilitate camera related processes and functions and or other software instructions to facilitate other processes and functions e.g. access control management functions etc. . The memory may also store other software instructions controlling other processes and functions of the asset device as will be recognized by those skilled in the art. In some implementations the media processing instructions are divided into audio processing instructions and video processing instructions to facilitate audio processing related processes and functions and video processing related processes and functions respectively. An activation record and International Mobile Equipment Identity IMEI or similar hardware identifier can also be stored in memory .

Each of the above identified instructions and applications can correspond to a set of instructions for performing one or more functions described herein. These instructions need not be implemented as separate software programs procedures or modules. The memory can include additional instructions or fewer instructions. Furthermore various functions of the asset device may be implemented in hardware and or in software including in one or more signal processing and or application specific integrated circuits. Accordingly the asset device as shown in may be adapted to perform any combination of the functionality described herein.

Aspects of the systems and methods described herein are controlled by one or more controllers . The one or more controllers may be adapted run a variety of application programs access and store data including accessing and storing data in associated databases and enable one or more interactions via the asset device . Typically the one or more controllers are implemented by one or more programmable data processing devices. The hardware elements operating systems and programming languages of such devices are conventional in nature and it is presumed that those skilled in the art are adequately familiar therewith.

For example the one or more controllers may be a PC based implementation of a central control processing system utilizing a central processing unit CPU memories and an interconnect bus. The CPU may contain a single microprocessor or it may contain a plurality of microcontrollers for configuring the CPU as a multi processor system. The memories include a main memory such as a dynamic random access memory DRAM and cache as well as a read only memory such as a PROM EPROM FLASH EPROM or the like. The system may also include any form of volatile or non volatile memory. In operation the main memory stores at least portions of instructions for execution by the CPU and data for processing in accord with the executed instructions.

The one or more controllers may further include appropriate input output ports for interconnection with one or more output displays e.g. monitors printers touchscreen motion sensing input device etc. and one or more input mechanisms e.g. keyboard mouse voice touch bioelectric devices magnetic reader RFID reader barcode reader touchscreen motion sensing input device etc. serving as one or more user interfaces for the processor. For example the one or more controllers may include a graphics subsystem to drive the output display. The links of the peripherals to the system may be wired connections or use wireless communications.

Although summarized above as a PC type implementation those skilled in the art will recognize that the one or more controllers also encompasses systems such as host computers servers workstations network terminals and the like. Further one or more controllers may be embodied in a device such as a mobile electronic device like a smartphone or tablet computer. In fact the use of the term controller is intended to represent a broad category of components that are well known in the art.

Hence aspects of the systems and methods provided herein encompass hardware and software for controlling the relevant functions. Software may take the form of code or executable instructions for causing a processor or other programmable equipment to perform the relevant steps where the code or instructions are carried by or otherwise embodied in a medium readable by the processor or other machine. Instructions or code for implementing such operations may be in the form of computer instruction in any form e.g. source code object code interpreted code etc. stored in or carried by any tangible readable medium.

As used herein terms such as computer or machine readable medium refer to any medium that participates in providing instructions to a processor for execution. Such a medium may take many forms. Non volatile storage media include for example optical or magnetic disks such as any of the storage devices in any computer s shown in the drawings. Volatile storage media include dynamic memory such as main memory of such a computer platform. Common forms of computer readable media therefore include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium a CD ROM DVD any other optical medium punch cards paper tape any other physical medium with patterns of holes a RAM a PROM and EPROM a FLASH EPROM any other memory chip or cartridge or any other medium from which a computer can read programming code and or data. Many of these forms of computer readable media may be involved in carrying one or more sequences of one or more instructions to a processor for execution.

It should be noted that various changes and modifications to the presently preferred embodiments described herein will be apparent to those skilled in the art. Such changes and modifications may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention and without diminishing its attendant advantages.

