---

title: Switch network of containers and trailers for transportation, storage, and distribution of physical items
abstract: Some embodiments include a transportation system implementing a network for transporting, distributing, and/or storing one or more physical items in one or more cargo containers (herein may be referred to as the “transportation network” for short). The cargo containers and relay terminals may be identified via node addresses in a network address space. The no addresses enables the transportation system to track, route, and monitor the physical items as they propagate through the transportation network. The transportation network can mimic routing protocols of telecommunication systems can facilitate different private transportation, storage and distribution companies and fleets. The transportation network can enable dynamic routing to fulfill logistic requests without wasting transportation and storage resources.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09595018&OS=09595018&RS=09595018
owner: 
number: 09595018
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20150506
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 989 519 entitled RED CONMUTADA DE PAQUETES Y TRAILERS PARA EL TRANSPORTE ALMACENAMIENTO DISTRIBUCION Y VENTA DE BIENES Y SERVICIOS which was filed on May 6 2014 which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

In conventional transportation transportation vehicle tows trailer from a point of origin to a final destination without driver shifts and without truck exchange. A driver often times does not return home for several days on a cross country delivery. Conventional transportation means have a variety of inefficiencies. Individual companies without using expensive postal services may deliver goods from a manufacturing site to a warehouse or a warehouse to a retail store. Hence a transportation vehicle which moves from the point of origin to the final destination and back is only fully utilized half of the time.

Several embodiments involve trailers and containers of different sizes and applications which enables a transportation system e.g. a container services system that provides one or more services to transport store and or distribute items from one or more cargo containers to segment a certain amount of cargo into smaller pieces and to send them over to a final destination. The transportation system can implement a network of providers herein referred to as the transportation network for short to transport store and or distribute one or more items. An original cargo can be segmented into packets and sent them over various paths and or various terminals to the final destinations. Once there the packets can be reassembled to reconstruct the original cargo.

In some embodiments various cargo loads from different owners may be grouped into a single truck for efficiency. In those embodiments a physical lock is used to secure the physical items and a cryptographic electronic lock is used to secure tracking information associated with the physical items. The physical key and the cryptographic key can be given to the owners of the various cargo loads.

In some embodiments trailers and containers are passively identified with printed labels e.g. including a bar code . Trailers and containers can also be actively identified through an electronic control unit that contains navigation tracking and or communication devices. In some embodiments active and or passive components enable tracking and routing of trailers and containers along a network of relay stations spread over roads and highways. The trailer and containers control unit can also include devices that monitor conditions of transportation storage distribution and sales of goods and services which are loaded inside.

Similar to cargo segmentation truck routes are also segmented into smaller routes allowing drivers to make it back home after a workday. Truck routes can be divided up into two groups trunks and Last Mile Routes LMR . Last mile routes LMR connect user premises with the nearest relay station or gateway. Independent truckers or trucking companies move trailers from customers premises to relay stations and vice versa using LMR. Trunk routes can connect distant locations by chaining circular routes allowing the exchange of trailers between relay stations located on either side of the road. Chaining circular routes or trunks can mobilized large amount of trailers and containers over long distances. This can occur non stop 24 hours per day without the drivers having to stay awake non stop.

Trunk routes can accumulate huge amount of cargo keeping high levels of occupancy and efficiency in all directions. Therefore according to several embodiments many transportation companies and independent carriers can tow or transport trailers and containers wherever and whenever they are willing or able to do so implementing an open network of service providers. Several embodiments further enable the transportation companies for each segment route relay station to operate synchronously as they were a single company.

In several embodiments the transportation system disclosed herein can be implemented by a network of computing devices such as trailer control units TCUs relay station control units RSCUs vehicle control units VCUs mobile devices that can communicate therewith a cloud server system over the Internet or any combination thereof. At least some of the computing devices can monitor and report information associated with the chain of custody of physical items for transportation storage and or distribution. At least some of the computing devices can compute routes or partial routes to move a cargo load or a portion of a cargo load from its point of origin to a final destination. For example a RSCU or an operator of the RSCU can generate a sub route to a next relay station without attempting to optimize an overall route from the point of origin to the final destination e.g. a cross country route .

In several embodiments the transportation system provides services to support the transportation storage and or distribution of physical items. For example the transportation system can provide a web portal to track cargo load transportation progress distribution analytics geolocation movements or any combination thereof. In several embodiments the transportation system can provide services by the transportation storage and or distribution of physical items. For example the physical items can be energy providing components e.g. batteries fuel solar cells etc. healthcare equipment data center infrastructure entertainment systems financial systems living spaces food processing equipment or any combination thereof. The transportation storage and or distribution of these physical items enable energy storage and distribution services mobile healthcare services mobile data center services mobile entertainment services mobile financial services residential or commercial rental services food truck services or any combination thereof.

Some embodiments of this disclosure have other aspects elements features and steps in addition to or in place of what is described above. These potential additions and replacements are described throughout the rest of the specification

The figures depict various embodiments of this disclosure for purposes of illustration only. One skilled in the art will readily recognize from the following discussion that alternative embodiments of the structures and methods illustrated herein may be employed without departing from the principles of embodiments described herein.

Several embodiments include a transportation platform system. Goods and services can be loaded into trailers and containers to be transported stored processed or sold. Trailers and containers can have passive elements such as printed bar codes and printed alphanumeric serial on the outside. The passive elements enable an electronic device in an inventorying device to identify the containers or trailers e.g. electronically or visually through cameras optical sensors etc. . Other types of passive elements such as radio frequency identifiers RFIDs can also be used. Containers and trailers can have active devices such as on board computers coupled to a wide variety of peripherals. The active devices enable among other things identification of the trailers and containers remotely using wired or wireless networks in addition to tracking their routes e.g. including whereabouts and geographical positions in all times and places during transportation .

In several embodiments trucks and other self propelled vehicles not only tow or transport containers or trailers but also monitor and exchange data and information with active devices or on board computers mentioned above. Self propelled vehicles or tow transportation trucks can contain compatible active devices based on the same communication technologies of trailers and containers. Being able to identify e.g. visually or electronically and to track routes and whereabouts of trailers containers and tow transportation vehicles remotely a transportation platform gains the possibility of using compatible active devices in service stations truck stops or elsewhere to detect their passing over the roadway. Having and deploying passive elements and active devices mentioned above it is possible to implement an open network of transportation storage distribution and sale of the contents of containers and trailers using relay stations as a packet switching network enabling the transportation platform system to mimic how digital networking functions e.g. Internet protocols .

Instead of towing or transporting trailers containers from an origin e.g. point A to a destination e.g. point B this route can be divided up into segments. In each segment the tow transportation truck can be exchanged in a place called a relay station. Tow transportation trucks and drivers may or may not share corporate identity or labor relationships so an open network of service suppliers is implemented. By segmenting the route from point A to point B an important increase in productivity is achieved in the transportation industry by reducing backhauling or the number of truck s empty miles. To achieve this two type of segments are defined trunks and Last Mile Routes LMR . LMR routes are the segments between the nearest relay station to the origin or the final destination. In other words LMR routes connect user premises with the nearest relay station or gateway.

In some embodiments trunks are segments that connect distant places or relay stations where truck exchange is convenient or necessary so truck drivers make it back home the same workday by driving the truck using circular routes. Chaining circular routes or trunks can mobilized large amount of trailers and containers over long distances non stop 24 hours per day. Thus trucks become similar to rail freight transport which uses predefined routes defined by railroad tracks. When relay stations or a switched scheme are used the adoption of trucks operated with renewal energies and friendly environment fuels is facilitated.

Trailers and containers can be used to store goods and services. Trailers or containers of different sizes and applications can be used to segment cargo into smaller quantities for transportation or storage. The transportation platform system can implement a network addressing protocol enabling mimicking of digital networks e.g. an addressing technique similar to Internet protocol packets . Each trailer and container can be routed by setting up an end to end route with the exact amount of content required by the end destination. This saves time and cost by reducing or avoiding the use of distribution warehouses storage racks forklifts material handling equipment cargo transference and labor. Containers and trailers can transport and store cargo for as long as is needed therefore facilitating their use for storing and warehousing of goods and services. This scheme is also useful to make a move. Adding a rack or a dispensing machine to a trailer or container can convert a parking lot or a storage facility into a mobile mall or a market place in a short period of time.

An example of a separated or independent units is the setup of a sea containers attached to a mover chassis when they are on the road. Indeed a shipping sea container can be adapted to operate as described in by installing a TCU on that container. The TCU and are always attached to the container that stores cargo especially when containers and are independent units from a mover chassis. However mover chassis can also use the TCU as a redundant control unit. The TCU are tracking trailers all the time and places to coordinate containers content transportation and exchange by tow transportation vehicles also including but not limited to other tow transportation options like motorcycles bicycles or people which exchange trailers along the path from a point A source to point B destination previously programmed in the TCU. also illustrates Truck Vehicle Control Units hereafter referred to collectively as VCU Vehicle Control Unit and that are installed on tow transportation trucks or can be installed on other transportation vehicles including but not limited to cars motorcycles bicycles or people respectively.

As for cargo e.g. weight and volume of cargo capacity trailers may have one or several axles. As for the rigidity of axles chassis hardness and tire size trailers can be designed for rough roads like those trailers used by the military. As for trailers size there is size limit set by the local authority in each country state province county city or town when trailers travel on public roads. Size of smaller trailers could be a fraction of larger ones so trailers can be stacked up and secured in groups based on ascending scales of weight and volume so they can be towed or transported by different transportation alternatives including but not limited to people bicycles cars motorcycles step van trucks pickup trucks or tractor trucks

Trailers or group of trailers can be towed or transported by any self propelled vehicle considering weight and volume capacity of content and also weight tare of trailers. Some examples of self propelled vehicles include without limitation to cars pickup trucks step van delivery trucks cars motorcycles bicycles or people . Trailers can also be stacked up or grouped so that they can be secured and transported by tractor truck railroad car aircraft or stored in a shipping container to be transported on a vessel among other alternatives. All these self propelled vehicles must have proper accessories to hook up trailers when they are towed. Some examples of those accessories include but not limited to these types of couplings pintle hook ball goose neck Lazy Susan and fifth wheel. Thus for example a single tractor trailer can transport a group of stacked trailers with different types of goods or services.

The self propelled vehicles can also be stacked up or parked for storage of goods or services in various place such as parking lots located in industrial areas or suburbs parking buildings storage areas logistic warehouses industrial plants manufacturing facilities garages of homes or buildings truck stops relay stations or any combination thereof. The trucks car or any other self propelled ground transportation options for towing trailers can use a power train that operates with engines using different fuels including but not limited to diesel bio diesel bio gas propane natural gas Compress Natural Gas CNG liquefied gas Liquefied Natural Gas LNG compress air gasoline electrical power AC o DC electric motors fuel cells. Power train transmissions can be manual automatic or electronic trucks and electric cars with electronic speed and torque control systems .

Trailers can be made of steel aluminum composite materials fabric wood synthetic carbon fibers metal chemicals alloys plastics among other materials. Trailers are visually or passively identified by an alphanumeric code associated with a labels and collectively as labels . Bar codes can be linear or two dimensional. The labels and are painted or stick to the trailers . The labels and together with the TCU and can be identified graphically passively and or electronically actively every trailer anytime anywhere. Alphanumeric code and bar code printed on trailer labels intended to establish universal open neutral identification platform level addresses can be assigned to nodes or terminals connected to the transportation platform network. This enables the transportation platform system to route and track trailers or containers end to end from anywhere to anywhere in the transportation platform network e.g. as wide as any location traversable by a vehicle .

The labels can include related information with the TCU s network components including but not limited to MAC address Media Access Control Address current and historical IP addresses domain and sub domains and generally all possible identifiers derived from standards made and enforce by ICANN Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers . So the elements illustrated in rely on networks currently operating successfully worldwide as the Internet. Those elements also allow to embrace new standards coordinated by the same organization including but not limited to for example emerging protocols like IOT Internet Of Things . Currently mail carriers use proprietary coding systems for routing packets or correspondence within internal logistics network of each company.

A passive labeling and bar coding system along with active devices such as TCU which embrace open and globally standardized protocols enable routing transporting storing or distributing trailers and their content on a global and open scale. Therefore carriers and operators with no corporate or labor ties can integrate an open network of services allowing participants to coordinate different providers like they were a single global organization. Both TCU and printed labels can separately identify trailers but it is expected to operate simultaneously all the time and everywhere. However one of them can stop working and still be able to identify the trailer especially under certain circumstances including but not limited to faulty broken TCU label deletion or loss small container which does not justify the use of TCU or any combination thereof. Regarding trailer labels anyone can visually identify the number or alphanumeric code that could match or include trailer plate characters. Trailer bar codes can be scanned and decoded with a tablet smart phone or any other device capable of capturing an image and decoding identifying code by accessing a local or remote computer program stored on the memory device or a remote server accessible via wired or wireless link. After bar code scanning and decoding is over code is associated with a database to identify the trailer its technical characteristics and content if available. Augmented reality application can also be used so information layer and live trailer image display trailer information and features including origin destination programmed route place of storage or parking content hazmat hazardous material warning technical feature among other information.

The trailers and can also be identified actively or electronically by using ports and wired or wireless links embedded in the TCU and which have radios and network interfaces NIC Network Interface Card NIC that can send information through technologies such as Bluetooth WiFi GPRSM Ethernet or wired and wireless telecommunications technology that can interact locally or remotely with a compatible receiver and a database to identify and store information of trailers and their contents. The TCU and can interact with smart phones or tablets among others devices. Based on this communication capabilities a smart phone for example can set up the TCU and to define settings like origin destination cargo weight cargo density or weight volume ratio delivery priority hazmat hazardous materials warning delivery priority alert activated when environmental friendly trucks are used to reduce pollution by using alternative fuels shipper and recipient contact information cargo handling and transporting special instructions type of service service mode to be provided including options such as transportation warehousing self storage or retailing among other settings.

If a smart phone or remote device is not available to program a TCU the input output devices and can be used instead. They can be installed in the cargo section of the trailers and respectively so a user can set up a TCU directly. The input output devices and can be implemented with touch screens that allow anyone to enter and display the programmed settings and relevant information of the service to be delivered. Input output devices can also be implemented with display keypad combination voice recognition devices electronic pen among other types of interfaces.

When a trailer is set up to move cargo from the place of origin to destination the tow transportation vehicles or can take turns to move the trailer a number of miles to the final destination within origin destination route segments. Making an analogy with the way the Pony Express worked the tow transportation vehicles and can resemble the horse rider combination the trailers and resemble knapsack or mochila and the relay stations e.g. trailer exchange points resemble relay stations where mochilas were exchanged and riders and horses were able to rest.

In order to coordinate trailers exchange along roads and routes the tow transportation truck vehicle bicycle or person can use the vehicle control units VCU and respectively. The VCU and read stored and generated data from each trailer s TCU which is hooked up or transported by tow transportation vehicle. The VCU and can access and display truck driver information and keep an event log of each trailer that is towed or transported including information about service mode or status e.g. transportation warehousing self storage retailing trailer for rent trailer under maintenance etc. origin destination delivery priority special instructions for loading unloading and transportation of cargo trailer status including alarms like flat tires shocks or oscillations trailer sway opening doors brake system alarms among other alarms and events.

The tow transportation vehicle control unit or VCU and also supervise each trailer TCU status specifically TCU s subsystems such as wireless communication radios internal cables and connections status connections status between trailers positioning and navigation system brake system monitoring status and condition alarm system or any combination thereof. Both the VCU and as well as the TCU and keep logs and record information about origin and destination of each trailer and track in real time if each trailer is going to the final destination.

Tracking data and equipment in real time and along all locations can enable the transportation system to monitor the chain of custody in the process of transporting storing distributing and selling goods and services e.g. when using trailers and a chain of different operators and carrier companies without corporate or labor ties . Therefore shows members of an open network of transportation storage distribution and sale of goods and services similar to open digital switching networks e.g. Internet . Unlike digital switching networks the transportation system does not use servers switches routers and computing devices to transport digital packets but rather uses the VCUs relay station units TCUs etc. to form an open network to route physical goods. The routing methodologies and communication protocols of digital switching networks can thus be applied to the transportation system.

Keeping records of the chain of custody updated and available at any time and place ensure high level of quality and few claims of the services offered by the open network of providers. The TCU and or the VCU can have integrated GPS tracking inertial navigation system inertial sensors radio signals triangulation devices or any combination thereof. These geolocation devices can continuously supervise truck trailer location and speed trailer exchange places trailer pick up release places delivery progress e.g. checking if tracing and tracking of current truck trailer route is leading up to the final destination or any combination thereof.

Wireless communications location and inertial sensors enable the TCUs or the VCUs to trace and track each truck trailer thus cargo load at any time and place despite the lack of line of sight to GPS satellites or telecommunication radio antennas. Moreover the TCU the VCU and the RSCU all have wireless links allow them to interact with each other and exchange and update information of each mobile unit forming ad hoc mesh network.

The relay station is a strategically located throughout a city or a rural area. For example relay station may be located on the side of an interstate road or within the city limits of a city. The relay station may have parking areas for trailers and trucks. Trailers can be parked for tow transportation vehicle exchange thus continuing the journey to the final destination. Trailers can also be parked on relay stations for renting maintenance or repair. The relay station may have a parking area with horizontal and or vertical stacking facilities for trailers so a company or individual can distribute store or sell goods and services contained on trailers. For this reason any building or construction located in a rural urban or semi urban area can be used as a relay station allowing goods raw materials or services being closer to production distribution or commercial centers. Example of places that could serve as relay stations include without limitation gas stations warehouses parking areas in self storage facilities parking places in logistics warehouses parking lots of wholesale stores and malls backyard or front yard of a house. Any of these places can be used as a trailer parking area for storing goods or belongings or a parking area for trailers which are in transit to another relay station or the final destination. Therefore a warehouse storage facility usually is a building of large proportions to centralize the storage and distribution of products in one place so it can be replaced by a distributed network of parked trailers which are moved all over the distribution area with products or services contained inside.

In this way products and services are almost in the same neighborhood of end users or factories ready for delivery saving time and money represented in fuel expenses reducing or avoiding the use of warehouses and related handling material equipment like forklifts pallet racks pallet jacks cranes jib hoist or any combination thereof. This makes supply chains more simple economical and productive as products and services can be shipped from the factory to the consumer using the same loaded trailer with the precise amount of goods or raw materials needed in certain distribution area. So trailers serve as transportation storage and distribution vehicle simultaneously. Moreover if trailer contain vending machines shelves or cooking equipment trailers can also serve as a mobile stores or retailing facilities.

Additional benefit offered by the items of is the rapid deployment of response units emergency and support facilities in case of a disaster or events that affect populated areas buildings urban infrastructure etc. Regions affected by natural disasters such as floods earthquakes hurricanes tsunamis can be supported instantly with the use of trailers tow trucks and relay stations described in . Parking stacking and storing trailers with display cabinets or vending machines organize a mobile mall or marketplace. The relay stations can be dynamic or improvised anywhere especially when exchanging trailers along the road. By constantly monitoring each trailer and constant communication with tow transportation vehicles it is possible to coordinate the exchange of trailers at a location agreed upon by the parties. Ad hoc stations or dynamic relay stations can replace conventional stations for causes such as accidents closed roads landslides or blockages in the road jams saving time rerouting among other causes.

The relay station along with the RSCU can incorporate optical sensors which are able to identify trailers passively by scanning the labels and . This way trailers with broken or malfunctioning TCU could be passively tracked and traced by the components described in . Trailers also may or may not have bar code and still be able to operate on the network. Trailer may have the bar code and not the TCU and operate within the network. Then packages backpacks boxes or other packaging containing goods or services to transport store distribute or sell can be passively e.g. visually inductively electronically etc. or actively electronically tracked using the label and or the TCU. In some embodiments all active and passive identification tracking and tracing components work simultaneously and can sometimes complement each other and sometimes work as redundant components. The end result of this cooperation of the devices can be increased reliability reliance and security of an entire transportation network. However depending on the complexity of the trailer the value or size of the load the level of service offered or the cost associated with the container the complexity of the TCU would be different. Packages bags mochilas bags and or boxes can also serve as trailers only if they have one or more active or passive components for identification that are compatible with the control units of e.g. TCU VCU RSCU or any combination thereof and can be tracked and traced within the network infrastructure of the transportation system. The infrastructure created by the components of can interact and function to keep the chain of custody of trailers at all times and in all places.

Example Network Functional Model Made of Trailers Tow Vehicles and Relay Stations to Transport Goods and Services.

The disclosed transportation system enables driver shifts and truck exchanges by utilizing delivery request information obtained from a TCU. The disclosed transportation system can integrate conventional transportation means with circuit switching technologies e.g. where information and electrical signals travel through a cable that extends from the transmitter to the receiver . For example the transportation network illustrated in may emulate a digital telecommunications paradigm that is based on packet switching technologies e.g. the Internet IP Protocol . The transportation system can track physical goods instead of digital content.

The transportation system can divide a cargo load into separate cargo portions e.g. pieces . The cargo portions can be routed individually sometimes resulting in different paths and out of order delivery. Each cargo portion can store cargo delivery information e.g. source and destination information via a passive label and or an active control unit e.g. a TCU in a trailer holding the cargo portion. The cargo delivery information enables a terminal e.g. a relay station at the intended destination of the cargo load to reassemble the cargo load by taking the cargo portions and assemble them in an original pattern e.g. a particular order or arrangement as they were sent from the source terminal.

The transportation system according to various embodiments can implement a transportation network such as the transportation network illustrated in . The transportation network can convert traditionally continuous and static path routing into discrete and dynamic routing. Traditionally trucks and their cargo take continuous paths between source and destination have fixed truck s cargo capacity from origin to destination and have monolithic chassis with fixed volume and weight capacity. The transportation network enables on demand capacity and variable capacity according to the load to be transported. The transportation network enables quantization of a cargo load into discrete units or packages during transportation. In several embodiments the transportation network also enables reassembly of the cargo load after transportation.

In several embodiments instead of continuous paths between source and destination trailers can be towed between segments where trailers and tow transportation vehicles are exchanged. Instead of using a single truck with fixed capacity trailers e.g. smaller trailers than the fixed cargo chassis of the single truck can store and transport smaller quantities of cargo. The trailers can be stacked up or combined according to load requirements at destination. For example the transportation network can recognize trucks that are underutilized by traveling under maximum carrying capacity. In response the transportation network can use the underutilized trucks according to the number of single or stacked trailers that such trucks can carry or tow. This process maximizes the utilization of cargo space in transportation vehicles e.g. trucks or otherwise .

Continuing the process described in once the trailer is loaded programmed and hooked up to the tow transportation vehicle the trailer can be taken from the user premises to the nearest relay station located for example in the city of San Francisco. The same user can tow the trailer using his her own self propelled means of transportation or the user can request the services of a short distance operator or also called Last Mile LM operator hereafter referred to collectively as LM . LM operators can tow trailers from user premises to relay stations and vice versa so they drive their trucks within short distance or LM service areas as or . Depending on the size of the trailer chosen by the user the LM operator can use a truck with suitable power and size. Once the trailer reaches the relay station in the city of San Francisco the tow truck can be assigned for towing and it operates long distance circular routes. In one example the tow truck travels in both directions between San Francisco and Paso Robles. The truck tows trailers using route from San Francisco to Paso Robles and also uses the complementary route from Paso Robles to San Francisco.

Routes are not necessarily the same as highways and roadways. Routes can be defined as a way to join two different geographical locations and the direction of the path that connects them. In some embodiments one route can use different highways. An operator who connects LM areas can operate on circular routes or circular cycle routes hereinafter a trunk operator . The trunk operator can be used to connect metropolitan areas suburbs and or LM areas e.g. service area around San Francisco and service area around Los Angeles .

 Trunk routes aggregate large amount of trailer traffic or cargo in two way mode so circular routes are used. Again trunk routing is enabled by the transportation system that maps physical transportation terminals into a decentralized address space similar to digital telecommunication networks. Trunks in digital telecommunications networks for example connect LANs Local Area Network LAN Networks together and or MANs Metropolitan Area Network MAN Networks together. Telecommunication trunks use point to point topologies while LAN and MAN networks connect nodes which are confined in a certain coverage area using point multipoint hub and spoke bus or star topologies. LAN network connect devices confined in the same physical space as homes offices buildings campus or any combination thereof. MAN networks connect nodes confined within metropolitan areas of cities.

For this reason the transportation system can design LM service areas and to mimic the areas of LAN and MAN digital networks. The routes and taken individually or chained can form point to point links between the LM service areas and . The transportation system can also design its service areas to mimic areas of a Wide Area Network WAN . Networks formed by connecting distant LAN and MAN networks together are WAN networks. In other words WAN networks are those that extend beyond LAN and MAN networks and can correspond according to the to the routes 

The transportation network can be composed of nodes and links. However unlike telecommunication networks having computers servers tablets smart phones routers or switches as nodes and data connections as links the transportation network has at least relay stations as nodes and transportation routes as links. Instead of packets of digital bits traveling between the telecommunication nodes the transportation network has physical cargo portions traveling between the relay stations.

For example the nodes of the transportation network of are the relay stations place of origin in San Francisco and the final destination in Los Angeles. In this example the links of the transportation network of are the routes and and the internal roads in metropolitan areas formed by LM routes. Cargo portions of one or more cargo loads can travel between nodes through links. The cargo portions can be carried by tow transportation truck and trailers each containing the products and goods to transport store distribute sell or any combination thereof.

Continuing the process of trailer transportation depicted on the tow truck and the trailer can depart from the relay station or node . The relay station can connect LM service area with long haul trunk towards Los Angeles but passing through the relay station or node in Paso Robles. The departure time according to is 12 15 PM. At the very same time the trailer is also found in the relay station parked in the storage or parking area. The trailer may be parked in the relay station to be towed leased put in maintenance or being used for self storage or distribution of goods. A few hours later the truck and the trailer reach the relay station in Paso Robles. The trailer is in transit while truck is disengaged. Minutes later the trailer can be engaged again and towed by the truck . The truck can covers a circular route from Paso Robles to the city of Los Angeles crossing the routes and . The route goes from Paso Robles to Los Angeles and the route goes from Los Angeles to Paso Robles. In turn the truck hook up the trailer which was parked on the relay station to be towed to San Francisco. At 3 15 PM the truck trailer sets and depart from the station in Paso Robles to San Francisco and to Los Angeles respectively.

In some cases the truck trailer sets shown in can depart simultaneously. In some cases the truck trailer sets can depart at different times. A tow truck can return via a different route depending on the demand for transportation services at the exit of the relay station. When a trailer switching exchange scheme e.g. mimicking a packet switching technique in telecommunication systems is used as described in the transportation system e.g. via a computer system in a trailer its transportation vehicle or a relay station can seek to reduce trailer transportation costs and to increase the speed of trailer transportation.

As an example fleets of delivery trucks that cover LM areas can depart from distribution warehouses with products that are delivered across the distribution zone. At the end of the day delivery trucks may return to the distribution warehouse unloaded consuming fuel wasting consumables such as tires brakes and lubricants causing more wear to the engine and eating labor hours without any economic benefit. In LM areas the ratio between unproductive empty miles over total of traveled miles backhauling is the industry related term could reach 50 . In some cases if all the distances traveled by delivery trucks which transport groceries and other products in a developed economy are added the total distance can represent inefficiency equivalent to some points of GDP Gross Domestic Product . Similarly in the long haul road transportation industry unproductive distances are smaller in relative terms or percentage due to brokers who are constantly looking for cargo and updating drivers through telecommunications networks. However if backhauling in long haul journeys might reach 10 percent on average the inefficiency figures will reach no small amount considering the long haul trucks are the largest travel longer distances and consume more fuel.

By segmenting the service areas in LM and trunks empty miles can significantly be reduced. For example delivery trucks can tow trailers on the way back to home base or distribution warehouse. As distribution fleets have regular routes and extensive coverage fleets can use idle miles for transporting trailers owned by other companies saving money generating income from resources previously wasted reducing greenhouse gases even the number of trucks in the area or any combination thereof.

Regarding trunks a chain of trucks traveling circular or symmetrical routes form a point to point transport system which can operate 24 hours transporting large volumes of freight capacity in both directions with great reliability speed and efficiency. By securing large volumes of cargo that are added at the nodes of the trunks for transportation in all directions the transportation system can facilitate the use of large carrying capacity trucks rolling almost 100 of its rated capacity 24 hours a day several shifts for one or more trucks conform 24 hours truck shifts in both directions of travel saving fuel number of trucks rolling and related costs. This would be comparable to rail transport not only in their mode of operation but its advantages.

For example drivers of large trucks usually spend months away from their homes under the current model of long haul transportation. Based on the diagram of a truck driver working day can begin and end in the city of origin decreasing or disappearing the time away from home. It is important to clarify that a driver and his truck can depart and arrive at the place of origin taking different routes which are not necessarily complementary. Thus a new stable and profitable life style would attract more people to work in the long haul freight industry reducing the current high turnover of drivers that adversely affects the trucking industry and the entire economy as a consequence. Furthermore safer roads would be the result of drivers traveling along roads which are familiar with them. However even in the future scenario of using self directed or drones trucks the packet switching scheme of saves time and cost throughout the entire economy.

The transportation system enables an analogy between digital telecommunications and the transportation scheme of . The transportation network can transport trailers within a LM area under a multipoint topology such as bus star or mesh networks. Trunks in can mimic point to point telecommunications networks. Thus alternating LM with trunks can take a truck trailer anywhere. In digital telecommunications terms devices which connect LAN and MAN networks with WAN networks are called gateways. Thus the relay stations and are the gateways that connect both the LM service areas and as well as the routes and of e.g. trunk routes .

The transportation system of can facilitate the introduction of transportation technologies which replace fossil fuels. As a trailer is towed by a variety of trucks along different paths making up the route between the origin and the final destination these trucks can be powered by electric motor fuel cells natural gas bio diesel among other fuels. Thus there would be routes located in regions where the use of one type of fuel is cheaper or convenient. For example there are states like Arizona Nevada or California where solar energy is cheap. In those states electric tow trucks can charge their batteries. A green index maintained by one or more computing devices in the transportation system can establish the relationship between the number of miles where the trailer is towed by a truck that use renewable or green energy with respect to the number of miles that comprises the total origin destination path. Thus the use of the transportation scheme of enables implementation of environmental policies in some countries where the use of grants loans or selling carbon credits to other companies are available.

Referring back to where transporting the trailer from San Francisco to Los Angeles is shown the relay station e.g. a gateway located in the city of Los Angeles can be reached. Later at 5 45 PM the truck is driven by LM service area operator who disengages the trailer at the final destination near Los Angeles airport.

Conventional transportation distribution and or logistics system may spend time transferring goods inside of trailers. shows how trailers can be grouped on a flatbed trailer deck coupled to the truck to reduce the time spent in transferring. To stack up trailers ramps or heavy lifting tools are used like cranes or forklifts. In the case of the ramp and raised platform can facilitate the process of towing trailers to the right height for grouping. The ramp is located at the parking area where tow transportation trucks and flatbed trailers are parked for stacking or unloading of trailers. For example in the trailers and are located in the ramp to be moved and secured to the flatbed trailer deck . The movement of the trailers in the ramps can be made via many means of pushing or pulling such as winch tow vehicles forklifts lift platforms elevators or any combination thereof.

As trailers are grouped on the flatbed trailer deck the trailers are connected to one another with the cables that are part of the TCU and . These cables can electrically wire the trailers together when the trailers are grouped to be transported by the truck . If the trailer is individually pulled by a vehicle then the wires can be connected only to the vehicle VCU. The cables connecting the TCU can be a set of interconnects such as wires the cables connecting the USB Universal Serial Bus ports of the TCU the cables connecting LAN or Ethernet ports to the TCU control cables trailer brake lights DC Direct Current power cables for energizing the TCU feed the TCU support battery or any combination thereof.

In the example of the wires and can connect together the TCU and of the trailers and respectively. Connecting each telecommunication ports of the TCU to one another a network is formed enabling the transportation system to monitor in real time the location of the connected TCUs in all times and places. According to the example of the VCU which belongs to the tow truck can have access to all or a subset of the information generated and stored in each and every one of the TCU and of the trailers and respectively. The VCU of the truck can also consolidate and send to a remote computing center all the information of each trailer and truck.

In some embodiments all the TCU and VCU have radio links. In some embodiments the transportation system can be configured to consolidate all the information on the VCU and send it from there e.g. to save cost . The VCU can also receive all or a subset remote instructions to coordinate transportation and delivery of each of the trailers. The TCU and the VCU can have at least four connectors to other external control units including LAN ports which forms a tetrahedral structure network topology. This topology can be used to ensure a high level of redundancy in power and to control connections between trailers e.g. considering the fact that not only can be stacked for transportation but also for storage of physical items as goods and or services .

In some embodiments with at least four connectors on each control unit it is possible to stack up trailers on a three dimensional matrix array. Although it is possible to use at least 2 connectors to implement a daisy chain connection array several embodiments use at least four connectors to increase redundancy both in communications and power supply connections on each TCU. For example in the TCU of the trailer connects the TCU and the VCU from the trailers and the truck respectively. That is the control unit can use 3 of the 4 ports of the TCU

The interconnects and e.g. wires and or cables can be used to establish the network. The cable in particular can connect the VCU with each TCU from the trailers which are stack up on the flatbed trailer deck . Another cable can be used for redundancy purposes so another VCU port can be activated and connected to a secondary port on each trailer e.g. in case one of the cables connectors and or ports stop working. The wireless links serial ports and LAN ports of the TCU and the VCU can enable creation of an ad hoc wireless and wired mesh network. This network is a means through which information can be exchanged in real time between the trailer and the tow transportation truck and other compatible devices which use the same wireless or wired links including places and users such as relay stations mobile users weigh stations road authorities others computing devices or any combination thereof.

In some embodiments every trailer can be accessed via wired or wireless links. By default there can be a wired and wireless port that lets a user view a web page through a captive portal application with which the transportation system can display information such as advertisements traffic information weather information information of the content or the programming data of the trailer maps with real time location and navigation information emergency warning signals information generated according to the trailer coordinates or current position visualization of other applications or any combination thereof.

The trailers and trucks can interact with one another by using wireless and wired ports. The trailers and trucks can have the ability to transmit location information and navigation. These features enable the transportation system to make a map of trucks and trailers which are for example rolling down the streets parked and or stacked up in parking lots or warehouses. In some embodiments the wireless link is shared with cars or other vehicles not necessarily subscribed with the same transportation system but with compatible links. In these embodiments it is possible to generate and make available e.g. via a web portal or a mobile application portal a map that shows how far a car is from another car. This would be helpful for drivers rolling down the road to notice if cars are approaching without even having eye contact with them. By forming mesh networks with ubiquitous radio links such as WiFi Bluetooth RFID GPRS etc. it is feasible to spot a trailer anywhere including underground parking lots warehouses and inaccessible places in general. Thus the cargo trailer and tow transportation truck can be tracked or easily located e.g. regardless of where it is at all time. The use of both wired and wireless networks to transport grouped trailers can improve the reliability of the chain of custody and quality of services offered by operators and members of the open network of transportation storage and distribution herein referred to as transportation network implemented by the transportation system described in various figures e.g. and .

The label can identify the trailer and related information. For example a sensor e.g. an optical sensor electrical field sensor a magnetic field sensor or any combination thereof coupled to a computing device e.g. a computer or smart phone can read the label . An application program can access the sensor. The application program can be locally stored in the computing device or available via a remote server. The application program can identify and consult all information related to the trailer such as cargo information type of cargo hazardous material warning weight handling and unloading instructions NMFC National Motor Freight Classification classification priority delivery renewable energy preferences etc. origin origin contact information destination destination contact information cargo handling instructions instructions for loading and unloading type of service transportation warehousing self storage rental maintenance transit retail estimated delivery time path traveled during the last day the last hour or a defined interval approximate path towards destination trailer serials MAC address of the TCU trailer number history log events current service time of tires and brakes calendar of maintenance or any combination thereof.

The input and output device enables the introduction and consultation of programming parameters for the trailer and the ability to read information related to the trailer its contents and its current use. The input and output device can be connected to the TCU Trailer Control Unit enabling a user to enter parameters that define the service e.g. transportation storage and or distribution to be provided by the trailer along with LM and trunk operators and relay stations. The input and output device also enables the TCU to interact with local and remote services e.g. exchange information including for example Internet browsing providing captive portal services supported by the TCU interaction with online retailers electronic interface for displaying advertisements providing business information about service network participants stakeholders or third parties other electronic services or any combination thereof.

An implementation of the unit includes for example touch screen keyboard and display switches integrated into the display frame mouse and display microphone for voice response interface commands stylus display or any combination thereof. The input and output device with the TCU can also enable a user to enter and or read the programmed parameters mechanical and electrical conditions of the trailer through a wireless interface . For example the unit shown in may be any device including but not limited to a smart phone tablet laptop or other mobile device with wireless interfaces compatible with the TCU . The unit can let a user to read and or write programming settings and relevant information of trailer . The wireless interface or wired interface serial port LAN port among others can connect the TCU with a wide area network e.g. connected to other computers . The TCU can interact with computing resources including but not limited to local database online remote databases web pages online technical libraries other devices such as a remote device exemplified by the personal computer PC Personal Computer or other computing resources locally or remotely accessible via the telecommunication links or or any combination thereof. The remote device via link can read the parameters stored or generated by integrated sensors to the TCU provided that it is online or connected to the wide area network via link or .

The trailer can contain a battery that powers the TCU and stores electrical power generated by various sources including for example solar panels generator regulator coupled to the rims or wheels power line plugged into the power grid the power line plugged into a battery alternator of the tow transportation vehicle or any combination thereof. In some embodiments the goal is to keep a fully charged battery so the TCU is powered during the time the trailer is in use or available for rent. In several embodiments the trailer can have RFID tag e.g. the label and or passive devices that can identify the trailer without power applied to the TCU .

The illustrates an example of stacking a group of trailers including the trailer . In the relay station which can also be a service station there is a storage area to handle material and lift cargo. For example the storage area can have devices such as the forklift or ramps . These device can enable stacking of trailers and or a group of trailers e.g. each trailer storing physical items inside that surround the ramps . In the for example 15 trailers are stacked up on the platform ramps and two trailers including being mobilized on the ramps.

Implementations of platforms with ramps may include for example industrial warehouses with heavy pallet racks steel or concrete structures parking lots at ground level parking buildings multilevel multistory underground parking open parking areas cantilever type of shelve or any combination thereof. Some examples of means for stacking trailers including for example forklift ramps as used by the trailer cranes hydraulic lift platforms or any combination thereof. If platforms have ramps are used an operator can utilize a means for pushing or pulling including for example winches tow vehicles forklifts elevators hydraulic platforms or any combination thereof to move cargo load and or the trailers.

Using trailers not only for transporting goods but also to store them can increase the speed of delivery and save cost. For example a manufacturer rather than loading up a 28 foot trailer and shipping it to a distribution warehouse can fragment the same amount of goods into four smaller trailers. Each trailer can be shipped directly to the distribution area instead of shipping the entire cargo load to a distribution warehouse and from there unloading storing re loading and shipping the goods to distribution areas. The use of the warehouse storage facilities and handling equipment of goods would be avoided or reduced. In turn increase of the speed of cargo delivery is achieved by being able to park or stacked up trailers near of areas of consumption or processing.

For example in illustrates how to use the parking area in front of the garage of the house to save the contents of the trailer . If for example a retailer wants to stock up on merchandise that is in the trailer and the retailer can ask a last mile LM operator to tow the trailer and restock inventory. The retail store would be located a few miles from the house where merchandise is stored in the trailer . Thus the manufacturer reaction is almost immediate on meeting the demand for retail products or services while saving fuel and storage costs making the whole supply chain simpler and more productive. Additionally the house can have a relay station control unit RSCU which can constantly track the trailers the integrity of the chain of custody and therefore control and supervise of the goods stored in the perimeter of the house. Thus the manufacturer retailer and all those involved in the supply chains maintain inventory control and movement of inventory at all times and places.

Example Block Diagram and the Operating Environment of the Network of Devices and IT Infrastructure for Deploying the Services Offered.

The control units of each basic element such as TCU VCU and RSCU can be connected to the wide area network such as the Internet using more than one simultaneous wired and wireless connections or networks available such as links and . If the connections are wireless receivers and transmitters can use radio frequency devices or optical devices e.g. infrared links or FSO Free Space Optics . A radio frequency implementation of these links can include for example using a GSM GPRS CDMA EDGE network a wireless LAN network like WiFi WiMAX 3G or 4G cellular network or any combination thereof. Links can also use wireless technology peering devices or P2P Peer to Peer connections such as Bluetooth NFC networks Near Field Communications IOT Internet of Thing or any combination thereof. In some embodiments the links can be wired technology for example USB Universal Serial Bus ports Ethernet LAN networks and ports optical fiber networks gigabit Ethernet or any combination thereof. The wired and wireless links may be operating simultaneously in order to increase the reliability of the connection of the control unit TCU VCU and RSCU to a wide area network such as the Internet.

As an example illustrates how the applications of the RSCU can work together with the link to connect to the wide area network . The RSCU can contain applications for example POS Point Of Sales inventory control of trailers available passing trailers control Transportation Retail Storage Warehousing TRSW inventory control or any combination thereof.

TRSW status variable can keep an inventory of trailers which are used for retailing warehousing transportation and or storage. The POS application can include for example executable engines that liquidate the cost of a shipping service and or provide logistical warehousing or temporary storage services of a trailer e.g. as used by the transportation network . To calculate for example the number of miles and the corresponding income per truck driver for each segment of the route the POS application can access the RSCU as well as the centralized data storage service that counts the amount of miles kilometers covered for each trailer. With this information the total cost income of the service as well as the cost income per truck is calculated. When the service is canceled the transaction is recorded in the service payment processing and storage . The service also records a weighted basis the payments to each operator or truck driver set. The POS application can settle and also record the total or partial payment of the rent of a trailer used for storage and update such payment through the wide area network by accessing the general information control service to update the corresponding databases. To settle the storage service cost income the POS application can query the storage processing information service . The service keeps track of time and the storage locations of each trailer used for self storage or warehousing network. So the POS application may clear the shipping and storage service consulting to and services for a trailer that travels from point A to point B and somewhere in between and also the trailer which stays parked for storing the cargo inside.

The RSCU can contain the inventory control application for available trailers which monitors the entry and exit of trailers that are stored in the relay station for rent. Thus the general information control service through the inventory balancing and control service updated in real time inventory levels of trailers available for each relay station that makes up the network. The inventory balancing and control service can maintain the inventory of trailers of all relay stations available as well as the characteristics of each trailer. Also projects the optimal amount of trailers for each station by using the following methods including but not limited to historical data statistics and seasonality of demand patterns random events demand patterns derived from analysis of multiple variables among others. The inventory balancing and control service can determine the optimal inventory level per station and offer different scenarios and strategies to balance inventory levels in the network. For example if a relay station lacks trailers which a nearby relay station has the service can highlight the imbalance and propose transporting leftovers trailers from the surplus station to the deficit station or where demand for trailers exists. Another strategy is to use the tariffs that encourage sending trailers from a station with surplus to a station with deficit or to another place where there is demand for trailers. This inventory balancing process works when service takes the prices quoted by the service and suggest a discount based on location so an economic incentive is introduced for picking up trailers in different relay stations nearby. The service can store geo referenced prices from all the services offered by the network transportation self storage warehousing retail along with discounts that could be used under previously established circumstances including tariff discounts for inventory balancing reasons between relay stations as explained before.

The service that provides a service for controlling and balancing the number of trailers can have many other strategies to meet the trailers at relay stations that make up the network strategies such as reciprocity diffusion extended trailer pick up area direct transfer complementary routes or any combination thereof. Reciprocity refers to the strategy of assigning cargo load to a truck with a commitment to mobilize available empty trailers in a certain direction. Dissemination means that a LM operator that carries a trailer to the final destination must return it empty to a different station where there is a deficit or demand for trailers. Extended trailer pick up area means traveling to the relay station with the largest number of available trailers rather than the nearest station to pick up a new trailer. Direct transfer means move trailers directly from a station with surplus to a station with deficit or where demand for trailers exist. Complementary routes means using distribution fleet backhauling routes to balance trailer inventories between different relay stations. All these strategies can be implemented interactively using the data and services described in .

The costs of any optimization strategy may depend on the calculation that make services and which in turn consult the data contained in the service where rates of all services are stored according on the service area. The RSCU contains a service called trailer passage control used to record the passage of all trailers transiting or stopping at the perimeters of the relay station . If a group of trailers or a single trailer passes close to a relay station antennas of different communications systems can be alerted to identify both the trailer and the tow transportation trucks that are part of the network. Regardless of the service being met by the trailers and if the current relay station is used or not the passing trailers control can store the event and transmits it to the service where the location of all network components are updated on a general level. The service stored and updated in real time positions speeds and movements of all the trailers and trucks at local municipal state national and international level.

The function of the general information control service can be to update the various computer services so that the movement of trailers and trucks are registered in a double entry record system. That is any change in the balance of trailers registered in a database must be matched by an equal change in another database. For example if a trailer is empty then it should be posted on the service. If the trailer is used for transportation the balance in the service should decrease a unit and proportionally increase the balance in the service where the distance is calculated to figure out at the end the cost of the service and the income distribution among trucks drivers which integrate the transportation chain. If the trailer is used for self storage or warehousing then a decrease in the balance of service must reflect a commensurate increase in the service where the storage time and cost of the service is computed.

The RSCU can have the TRSW inventory control carrying the inventory level of trailers that are stored or parked in the relay station and are executing one of the following functions Transportation Retail Self Storage or Warehousing TRSW . Like other databases and services which use double entry system inventory movements that affect TRWS also affect the balances of the services and .

The general information control service can use the link to connect to the wide area network like Internet and thus exchange information with all services and network members. The service can be part of the general information control service and establish the routes of truck trailer sets to get from one relay station to another relay station until the final destination is reached. The service and the service can work together by setting transportation routes for trailers that have to be moved from relay stations where empty trailers are available to relay stations or places where trailers are needed. The service can maintain route information which is updated in real time so trucks and trailers do not have delays while traveling due to bad weather accidents traffic jams works on roads among other events. By coordinating and setting transportation routes it is possible to implement various routing protocols as the nodes or routers of digital networks do while connecting to Internet. It is possible to implement adaptive or static protocols as in digital networks. Adaptive protocols such as RIP Routing Information Protocol OSPF Open Shortest Path First IS IS Intermediate System to Intermediate System IGRP EIGRP Enhance Interior Routing Protocol Gateways or any combination thereof.

Although digital network protocols as mentioned can be adapted it is also possible to develop more suitable protocols for use in transportation and storage of trailer as illustrated in . It is desirable to design and use different protocols for both segments LM segments and trunks. Segmentation or quantization of transport routes in discrete units segments and quantization of cargo load in discrete units by using trailers for transportation and storage opens the possibility of applying algorithms and routing schemes used by digital packet switched networks optimizing resources all over the network of services providers. Drawing a parallel again with digital telecommunications networks it may be convenient to use protocols in LM areas inspired by LAN and MAN networks such as Ethernet protocol that connects nodes using multipoint topologies which allow to handle digital traffic of random nature. On the other hand point to point networks use protocols such as ATM and SONET that handle large amounts of data and information traffic in a more predictable manner. So these protocols are used as a framework to design transportation protocols to be implemented on trunks where point to point topologies exist.

The service can be called green index. The service can count the percentage of green technologies that are used to provide any of the services offered by the network of providers e.g. transportation storage and or distribution providers . For example a trailer that is transported from Los Angeles to New York can be towed by more than five trucks. In some segments of the route trailers may be towed or transported by trucks powered by non fossil fuels or electrical power. Then the service can calculate how many miles the trailer was pulled by an electric truck a natural gas truck a gasoline or diesel truck. Thus the service may calculate the absolute value of the green miles or as percentage of green miles over the total miles traveled by the trailer within a service cycle of accumulated per any amount of time day week month year . With a green index organizations can implement policies that encourage the use of trucks fueled with no fossil fuels or more environmentally friendly renewable energy.

The statistical services can store classify and or analyze the information all hardware and information components generate of the aforementioned network of transport and storage of goods and services. By storing all or a subset of the information generated by each physical and information component e.g. trucks trailers relay stations users web portal etc. it is possible to find behavioral patterns to make better decisions for optimizing the transportation network designing new services or validating the effectiveness of the innovations introduced to the network or any combination thereof. The statistical services can enable implementation of better routing schemes balancing the number of trailers in various relay stations according to seasonal patterns measure the effectiveness of new models of transportation or routing optimizing the use of certain types of trailers in certain regions among other possibilities of network performance optimization. Classification and analysis of the stored information effectively support the implementation of new services or improvements on existing services.

In also illustrates the service API Application Programming Interface which can connect the information technology infrastructure that supports the transportation and storage network with third party software applications. For example a third party application can access data from any information service that integrates the general information control service to provide statistics or computer services derived from databases grouped in . A third party can use the general information control service to provide transportation and storage services of goods and services which are supported by accessing databases from . Although third party applications are intended to use any resource for any type of application a classification scheme can include for example external services via external services interface payment methods via payment methods interface self storage and warehousing services e.g. via self storage and warehousing interface retailing e.g. via retailing interface produce exchange e.g. via agricultural exchange interface transportation VPN Virtual Private Network e.g. via transportation VPN interface or any combination thereof.

The payment methods interface can serve to integrate means of payment services offered by banks and specialized operators that add a variety of payment services in one platform. Thus a third party can offer payment alternatives for the transportation and storage service network adapting payment methods to user preferences or customer segments in each region of a country or certain individuals within a specific region. Additionally the payment methods interface can facilitate the use of innovative payment methods which are most convenient or economical than traditional payment alternatives. The self storage and warehousing interface can relate to specialized applications for self storage and warehousing of goods and services which allow third parties to use the information technology and physical infrastructure of the network to create new IT Information Technology services and new storage or warehousing of goods and services across the network.

The retailing interface can facilitate the development and implementation of new services in retailing. With the physical infrastructure represented by the trailers tow transportation trucks and relay stations a third party can design new and innovative retail services that enable deliver products and services in minimum time and at competitive costs. New ways of doing e commerce and new ways of complementing traditional retail services can be developed throughout the deployed network infrastructure and the retailing interface . Trailers with vending machines and inventory control software can offer retail alternatives to both urban and rural populations. The agricultural exchange interface can implement transportation storage and distribution networks of perishables like agricultural and livestock products. Perishable goods may demand special trailers and routes as well as fast delivery. Once these specialized transportation and warehousing services are in place it is possible to integrate them with commodity exchanges that exist in different countries.

For example a load of fruits may traditionally use of large trucks containers and warehouses. According to several embodiments these large trucks can be replaced by the use of smaller trailers being sent directly to the end consumer so considerable savings are achieved in the supply chain. The use of warehouses storage equipment and labor would be reduced. The trailer would serve as means of transport storage and delivery of products integrating the entire supply chain. Costs along the supply chain would decrease by such factors as faster delivery lower management costs by the simplicity of the overall process lower transportation and warehousing cost less waste lower cost of intermediation between producers and consumers among other factors.

The transportation VPN interface can serve to integrate third party applications by implementing dedicated paths or virtual tunnels between a place of origin and a place of destination. VPN ensure that the trailers travel fulfilling certain delivery and cargo handling conditions delivery time restrictions specialized trailers use specialized loading and unloading conditions moisture and temperature control inside the trailers among other options as established by the parties on a contract or a definition of terms of service. The trailers that work under this mode may be engaged and disengaged under certain time delivery conditions so it may seem that a road or exclusive tunnel was made between the source and destination despite the fact that transportation and storage of trailers is done by a group of companies or operators without any labor or corporate ties.

The interfaces API can handle variables and network resources to provide the highest standards of service. The interfaces API can create a variety of services to specific segments in the industry. The interfaces API can create highly customized services tailored to a customer group or industry despite having resources arranged in an open network of providers and operators. Any other service implemented by third parties that are not classified within the interfaces can be coordinated by the external services interface . The interfaces API can be connected to the wide area network through the link that can be implemented in wired or wireless manner.

Functions multiplicity or complexity of the TCU may depend on the complexity of the trailer or the cargo to be carried the value or size of the load or the required level of service offered the trailer requirements and cost of components among many other factors. The TCU may be implemented with more or less transducers more or less sensors more or less devices more or less subsystems to suit the needs of for example the trailer the type of cargo load in particular or the transportation network e.g. network of providers for transportation storage distribution and or retailing of cargo .

For example the positioning system the accelerometer and gyroscope can be coupled to the peripheral interface to facilitate the implementation of functions like monitoring and location of mobile objects such as trailers with or without line of sight estimated navigation or dead reckoning to the GPS Global Positioning System satellites. In some implementations the gyroscope and accelerometer may indicate whether a trailer is rolling on a road with slope or if the trailer is overturned. In other implementations the accelerometer and or the gyroscope for example can feed their sensor data to an electronic brake control system to prevent oscillations trailer sway of trailers towed and impacted by strong crosswinds. Multiple Miscellaneous sensors can connect multiple devices to the peripheral interface the sensors such as thermometers humidity sensors biometric sensors pressure gauges magnetometers or any combination thereof. Thermometers or thermocouples can measure the temperature inside the trailer and thus monitor the conditions of storage and transportation of temperature sensitive goods. In another example humidity sensors can measure and or control the moisture level within the trailer. Biometric sensors can control the opening of doors or handling of door locks or locking drawers inside the trailer. Sensors such as magnetometers pressure gauges gas sensors antennas among many other types of measurement sensors can facilitate measurement and implementation of the related variables.

For example positioning or georeferenced information can be received by the TCU through the positioning system . In various implementations positioning system may be incorporated into the TCU or may be an external device connected through a wired or wireless link. In some implementations the positioning system may include a GPS receiver together with a processing unit to take the position signals from the GPS satellites to find out the geographical position. In other implementations the positioning system may incorporate an electronic magnetic compass an accelerometer and a positioning engine in order to determine the geographic location via dead reckoning techniques when line of sight to receive signals from satellites or cell phone antennas is not available. In other implementations the positioning system may use wireless signals e.g. signals IEEE 802.11 wireless or WiFi to determine the location information or even use hybrid techniques that combine satellite signals and television radio broadcasting signals. In other implementations positioning system may include a GLONASS receiver GLObalnaya NAvigatsionnaya Sputnikovaya System in Russian Global Navigational Satellite System in English and or GALILEO European satellite positioning system and or DBS BeiDou Navigation Satellite System along with a processing unit to take the position signals from satellites of the GLONASS and or Galileo and or DBS systems for finding the geographic position.

The identification subsystem can label and identify a particular trailer and the characteristics of the TCU . For example the identification subsystem can add information that identifies the distinctive components integrating with the trailer and the TCU . Information such as MAC Media Access Control Address address of the Ethernet port embedded in the TCU the bar code printed on the TCU board the RFID chip contained on the TCU the dynamic or static IP Internet Protocol address taken by the trailer at a given moment exclusive keys and encrypted codes for trailers or the TCU event log that creates a unique fingerprint to identify the trailer or any combination thereof can be used to create a unique identifier or fingerprint of a trailer e.g. utilizing one or more hashing techniques . This can be done to enhance the safety of transportation and storage of cargo and ongoing monitoring of each trailer throughout the service area.

Maintaining the chain of custody in an open network of transportation storage distribution and retailing with trailers containers can constitute a mission critical function for active elements such as the TCU . All or a subset of identification information of trailers and the TCU can be transmitted with or without encryption at any time through the communication subsystem . This can be done to track the trailer and its contents throughout the service area of the network and check if the TCU has not been altered or changed and thus ultimately determine the identity of the trailer.

The audio subsystem may be connected to the speaker and one or more microphones . The audio subsystem along with the input output subsystem can be integrated to interact with a user using the touch screen of the TCU through gestures and voice commands. For example this interaction with the user may trigger a request for general or specific information of service network or trailer service status e.g. to be displayed by the touchscreen or another display .

Communication functions can be facilitated by one or more communications subsystem . The communication subsystem may include one or more wireless communications subsystems or one or more wired communication subsystems. Wireless communication subsystems may include receivers and transmitters of radio frequency and or optical e.g. infrared laser receivers and transmitters. The wired communications subsystem may include a serial bus port like a USB Universal Serial Bus port or other wiring links which connect computing devices such as networking equipment switching or network access devices personal computers printers flat screens or other devices capable of receiving and transmitting data or any combination thereof.

The specific design and implementation of communications subsystem may depend on communications networks or media on which the TCU can operate. For example the TCU may include a wireless communication subsystem designed to operate on a GSM Global System for Mobile communication English network an EDGE Enhance Data GSM Environment English network 802.X e.g. Wi fi WiMAX or 3G networks CDMA Code Division Multiple Access in English networks and Bluetooth networks. The communications subsystem may include protocols for managing a server or hub type communications device hosting protocols that serve as a base station for other wireless devices. The communications subsystem can enable the TCU to be synchronized with a network device using one or more protocols such as TCP IP HTTP UDP or other well known protocols.

The camera subsystem and the optical sensor may be used to facilitate camera functions such as taking pictures or videos inside or outside the trailer. The camera subsystem can thus support maintaining the chain of custody of items to transport store distribute or sell in an open network of operators enterprises and or individuals who work independent of any corporate or labor bond component. The optical sensor can includes for example the use of technologies such as CCD Charged Coupled Device or CMOS Complementary Metal Oxide Semiconductor . Camera subsystem can be connected to one or more optical sensors which are integrated or external to the TCU . A camera system can send photos or videos of the inside of the trailer automatically or on demand. The TCU can send pictures or videos of external cameras for checking traffic conditions weather location of the trailer surveillance and or other purposes.

The sensor and door opening subsystem can enable monitoring and control of various actuators which can be operated to close or open for example doors locks securing releasing accessories attached inside or outside the trailer or any combination thereof. The sensors and door opening subsystem can control and monitor among others the following vents windows doors floor ceiling wall locks padlocks on off or status signal detector for doors windows ducts and locks.

The sensor and brake control subsystem can monitor and control the brakes of the trailer. The sensors can measure the effectiveness of the brakes and the status of essential components such as hydraulic circuits if the brakes are hydraulic electrical circuits if the brakes are electric state of abrasives bands or pads or any combination thereof. The subsystem of sensors and brake control subsystem can control the activation of brakes on all wheels of the trailer together or separately. The brake control subsystem for example can control trailer oscillations due to the wind. The brake control subsystem can adapt or adjust the brakes due to the effective against the weight of the payload and or incline of the road which uses the trailer.

The input output subsystem may include a touch screen controller and or an input controller . The touch screen controller may be coupled to the touch screen . The touch screen with touch screen controller may detect contact movement or gestures applied to the surface of the touch screen using the touch sensitive technologies including but not limited to capacitive resistive infrared surface acoustic wave technologies diverse arrays or matrices of proximity sensors as well as other factors determining one or more points of contact on the touch screen or in the vicinity of the touch screen . Other input drivers controllers may be coupled to other control devices and input through one or more keys or buttons rocker type switches thumb wheel infrared port USB port or a pointing device such as an electronic pen. The push buttons keys can also include audio volume control for both the speaker and the microphone . In some implementations the TCU along with the audio subsystem and touch screen can record and play audio and video including formats like MP3 AAC MPEG MP4 or any combination thereof.

The memory interface is coupled to memory . The memory may include high speed RAM Random Access Memory and or one or more volatile magnetic memory hard disks one or more optical storage devices or FLASH type memory e.g. NAND NOR memory type . The memory may store the operating system as Linux Unix OSX Windows Android RTXC Darwin IOS or also VxWorks embedded system. The operating system may include instructions for handling basic system services for the TCU or run exclusive tasks of the TCU hardware. In other implementations the operating system can include only of a one core kernel of a standard operating system e.g. Unix kernel .

The memory may store communication instructions to facilitate communication with one or more additional devices one or more computers one or more servers one or more mobile devices or any combination thereof. The communication instructions can be used to select the operating mode or means of communication used by the TCU based on the geographical location obtained by navigation instructions GPS device .

The memory may store graphical interface instructions GUI to facilitate graphical interface GUI processing sensor operating instructions to facilitate sensor processing and functions event storage instructions to facilitate events storage related processing and operations emails instructions to facilitate email processing and functions navigation instructions to facilitate GPS navigation processing and operation cameras associate instructions to facilitate camera processing and functions the audiovisual media system instructions to facilitate related audio video system processing and functions trailer control and route alternatives instructions to facilitate processing related processes and features described with reference to and its operation trailer route programming instructions to facilitate processing related processes and features described with reference to and and its operation or any combination thereof.

The memory may also store other software instructions such as web video instructions to facilitate the processing associated with video on the web and functioning and or commerce web instructions to facilitate processing related web commerce and its operation. In some implementations the instructions of audiovisual processing are divided into instructions for processing audio and video separately to facilitate the calculations in the processes related to audio and its functions and processes related to video and its functions respectively.

Proxy and captive portal server instructions can serve to facilitate the processing related to the proxy server and its operation as well as the captive portal and its operation respectively. With the proxy server for example a smart phone user can approach the trailer and TCU to navigate through Internet using wireless links between the trailer and the user. The trailer can be connected to the Internet using another wireless link that bridges between the user device and the Internet network. The captive portal for example can transmit local websites that advertise and or sell products or services or provide information about users who approach the trailer and the TCU without Internet access. The captive portal content can be stored locally in memory .

Each of the instructions and applications identified above may correspond to a group of instructions that execute one or more functions described. These instructions are not necessarily implemented as separate pieces of software or divided into processes or modules. The memory may include or contain additional instructions to those related in or may be less instructions related in . In addition many functions of the TCU may be implemented in hardware or software using one or more processors signals and or specialized circuits for each application.

The multiplicity of functions or complexity of the VCU can depend on for example the complexity of self propelled transportation vehicles used to engage and transport a trailer or a group of trailers the complexity in handling the material to be transported and or stored the cargo load value or size the level of service required or offered cost requirements of VCU and its components among other factors. The VCU can be implemented with more or fewer transducers more or less sensors more or less devices more or less subsystems to suit the needs of the use of self propelled transport and type of cargo in particular or service network of transport storage distribution and retailing in general.

A WAN gateway can connect a trailer and or a vehicle to the Internet. For example the WAN gateway the vehicle interconnection interface and communication subsystem can be coupled to the peripherals interface to facilitate the implementation of communications functions between trailers and a remote station. The transportation system can monitor the movement of both the trailer and the tow transportation vehicle at all times and places. The WAN network can connect in turn to the Internet network enabling monitoring of trailers and tow transportation vehicle from anywhere in the world. In some implementations the vehicle interconnection interface along with the WAN gateway may monitor cargo load conditions containing each of the trailers as well as the geographical location of truck trailers set at all times and places.

The vehicle interconnection interface can enable the transfer of information between the VCU and trailer TCU. So any variable or function generated by any TCU could be accessed from anywhere in the world through the vehicle interconnection interface and WAN gateway of the VCU or the TCU . The vehicle interconnection interface can have enough wired and wireless ports to connect with every trailer s TCU by using corresponding wired and wireless links available on each TCU. The communication subsystem can be implemented using cables and corresponding wired ports. This can involve the use of USB ports and cables Ethernet ports and cables fiber optic Giga Ethernet ports or any combination thereof. In some implementations a wireless port can be used simultaneously or as a unique means of communication. In some implementations for example technologies such as Bluetooth 802.X ports or GSM and GPRS ports can be used among others wireless communication technologies.

Multiple Miscellaneous sensors can connect multiple devices to the peripheral interface including but not limited to thermometers humidity sensors biometric sensors pressure gauges magnetometers or any combination thereof. Thermometers or thermocouples to measure the temperature inside the truck or also monitor the conditions of storage and transportation of temperature sensitive goods when the cargo or trailers do not have sensors of this nature. Also humidity sensors for measuring and controlling the moisture level within the trailer and or truck. Biometric sensors to control the opening of doors or handling of door locks or locking drawers inside the truck or access to the information stored in the VCU . Sensors such as magnetometers pressure meters gas detectors antennas among many other types of sensors facilitate the measurement and implementation of functions that need to measure the variables in both the truck and the load it carries.

The position information can be received by geo referencing the VCU through the positioning system . In various implementations the positioning system may be incorporated to the VCU or an external unit can be connected via a wired or wireless connection. In some implementations the positioning system may include a GPS receiver together with a processing unit to take the position signals from the GPS satellites to find out the geographical position. In other implementations the positioning system may include an electronic or magnetic compass an accelerometer and a positioning engine in order to determine the geographic location through the dead reckoning technique when line of sight to receive signals from satellites or cell phone antennas is not available. In other implementations the positioning system may use wireless signals signals IEEE 802.11 wireless or WiFi to determine the location information or even use hybrid techniques that combine satellite data and radio television radio broadcasting signals. In other implementations the VCU may obtain the geographic position by accessing one or more trailer TCU. In other implementations positioning system may include a GLONASS receiver GLObalnaya NAvigatsionnaya Sputnikovaya System in Russian and or GALILEO European satellite positioning system and or DBS BeiDou Navigation Satellite System along with a processing unit to take the position signals from satellites of the GLONASS and or the Galileo and or the DBS systems for finding the geographical position.

The identification subsystem can be used to label or identify the tow transportation vehicle the driver characteristics of the VCU distinctive components that integrate with the vehicle and or the VCU or any combination thereof. The identification subsystem can identify information such as the MAC address Media Access Control Address of the Ethernet port on the VCU the bar code printed on the VCU board the RFID chip containing the VCU the dynamic or static IP Internet Protocol address taken by the vehicle at a given moment exclusive keys and encrypted codes used for the truck the driver or the VCU event log or any combination thereof.

The identification subsystem can generate information which creates a unique fingerprint to identify the vehicle and or the driver utilizing one or more techniques. Creation of the unique identifier can enhance the safety of transport and storage of cargo. The unique identifier can also support monitoring e.g. real time constant monitoring of each trailer and truck across the service area. All information identifying the truck and the VCU can be transmitted with or without encryption at any time via the communication subsystem . This can be done to track the truck trailer and its contents along and wide area network service and check if the VCU has not been altered or changed and thus determine the integrity of data and operation of the VCU and the identity of the truck and the driver.

In some implementations the VCU along with other components of the service network may determine when and where the liability of the driver of the tow transportation vehicle and the other members of the service network begins and ends. This feature can facilitate cases of accidents loss damage third party liability loss damage of cargo in transit theft and other kinds of events where driver truck can suffer economic or legal consequences. Many operators and companies may work for an open service network e.g. transportation storage and or distribution service network herein sometimes referred to as transportation network as illustrated in FIG. by hourly daily part time basis. The transportation system implementing the open service network can establish when and where liability begins for each member of the service network.

The audio subsystem can be connected to a speaker and one or more microphones . The audio subsystem along with the input output subsystem would work together to interact with the truck driver or any user close to the truck who is using the touch screen unit of the VCU and voice response commands. This can be done in order to request general or specific information of the service network or the service status of trucks and trailers. In other implementations the audio subsystem can enable the truck driver to communicate with the central office or any other destination like calling through a mobile phone.

Communication functions can be facilitated by one or more communication subsystems . The communication subsystem may include one or more wireless communication subsystems or one or more wired communication subsystems. Wireless communication subsystems may include receivers and transmitters of radio frequency and or optical e.g. infrared laser receivers and transmitters. The wired communication subsystems may include a serial bus port like USB Universal Serial Bus port or other wiring links which connect devices such as networking equipment switching or network access devices personal computers printers flat screens or other devices capable of receiving and transmitting data. The specific design and implementation of communication subsystem may depend on communications networks or media on which the VCU will operate. For example the VCU may include a wireless communication subsystem designed to operate on a GSM Global System for Mobile communication network an EDGE network Enhance Data GSM Environment network 802.X e.g. Wi Fi WiMAX or 3G networks CDMA Code Division Multiple Access networks and Bluetooth networks. The communication subsystem may include protocols for management server or hub type communication device or hub hosting protocols and thus serve as a base station for other wireless devices. Another example would be that the communications subsystem can enable the VCU being synchronized with a network device using one or more protocols such as TCP IP HTTP UDP or other well known protocols.

The camera subsystem and the optical sensor may be used to facilitate camera functions like taking pictures or videos inside or outside the truck. The optical sensor includes but is not limited to the use of technologies CCD Charged Coupled Device or CMOS Complementary Metal Oxide Semiconductor . Camera subsystem will be connected to one or more optical sensors integrated or external to the VCU . Thus a camera system can send photos or videos of the inside or outside of the truck automatically or on demand. The VCU could send pictures or videos of external cameras for checking traffic conditions weather location of the truck and trailers surveillance and others. Another implementation for example can take video images to provide the driver an easy way for alignment with the trailer while reversing the truck to hook up the trailer. It is also possible to use video images to facilitate parking the truck and the trailer in parking or loading unloading areas.

The trailer sensor connection subsystem can monitor the physical electrical and electronic connection between each trailer and the tow transportation vehicle. The safety of transporting one or more trailers can depend on the reliability of locks and trailer hitches that keep the trailers together as well as couplers and locks to secure the trailers to the truck chassis. In some implementations sensors and actuators may be used to establish the connection status of hooks used to secure the trailer to the truck chassis.

When the trailer is electrically connected to the truck it is possible to establish whether the actuators and couplers were properly engaged. It is understood that if it is possible to read the status of the actuators the electrical connection is also working. In some cases if the vehicle interconnection interface is able to communicate with the VCU through the wired links then that electrical and communication systems can be considered working e.g. properly functioning . If any connection fails at physical electrical or electronic levels the truck communications interface detects and sends the corresponding alarm to the truck through the VCU to correct the problem.

The input output subsystem may include a touch screen controller and or an input controller . The touch screen controller may be coupled to the touch screen . The touch screen with touch screen controller can detect contact movement or gestures applied to the surface of the touch screen using sensitive technologies to touch including but not limited to capacitive resistive IR infrared surface acoustic wave diverse arrays or matrices of proximity sensors as well as other factors determining one or more points of contact on the touch screen or in the vicinity of . Other touchscreen input drivers may be coupled to other control and input devices via one or more keys or buttons rocker type switches thumb wheel infrared port USB port or a pointing device such as an electronic pen. The push buttons can also include audio volume control keys for both the speaker and the microphone . In some implementations the VCU along with the audio subsystem and touch screen can record or play audio files and video using formats like MP3 AAC MPEG MP4 or any combination thereof.

The memory interface is coupled to memory . The memory may include high speed RAM Random Access Memory and or nonvolatile memory using one or more magnetic hard drives one or more optical storage devices or FLASH memory e.g. NAND or NOR memory types . The memory may store the operating system as Linux Unix OSX Windows Android RTXC Darwin IOS or also the VxWorks embedded system. The operating system may include instructions for handling basic system services of the VCU or execute unique hardware related tasks of the VCU . In other implementations the operating system includes only of one core kernel of a standard operating system e.g. Unix kernel . The memory may store communications instructions to facilitate communication with one or more additional devices one or more computers one or more servers one or more mobile devices.

Communication instructions can be used to select the operating mode or means of communication used by the VCU based on the geographical location obtained by navigation GPS instructions of the device . The memory may store graphical interface instructions GUI to facilitate processing of the graphic interface sensor operating instructions to facilitate processing related to the sensors and functioning events storage instructions to facilitate processing storage related events and operations electronic messaging instructions to facilitate processing of emails and functioning navigation GPS instructions to facilitate processing related to GPS and navigation operation cameras instructions to facilitate the processing associated with cameras and functioning the audiovisual processing instructions to facilitate processing related with the audio video system and functioning control and route alternatives instructions for trucks and trailers to facilitate processing related to the features and processes described with reference to and its operation instructions to monitor each locked trailer is aimed to facilitate processing related to communication between the VCU and each trailer TCU and operation.

The memory may also store other software instructions like web video instructions to facilitate the processing associated with video on the web and functioning electronic commerce instructions to facilitate processing related with electronic commerce and its operation. In some implementations the audiovisual processing instructions are divided into instructions for processing audio and video separately in order to facilitate the calculations in the processes related to audio and its functions and processes related to video and its functions respectively. Proxy and captive portal server instructions serve to facilitate the processing related to the proxy server and its operation as well as the captive portal and its operation respectively. With the proxy server for example a person with smart phone can approach the truck and the VCU to navigate Internet using wireless links between the truck and the user. In turn the truck is connected to the Internet using another wireless link that bridges the user and the Internet network. The captive portal for example can serve to transmit and display local stored websites to advertise or sell goods services or post any information related to users who approach the truck and the VCU without accessing the Internet. The content is stored locally in memory .

Each of the instructions and applications identified above may correspond to a group of instructions that execute one or more functions described above. These instructions are not necessarily implemented as separate pieces of software or divided into processes or modules. The memory may include or contain additional instructions to those listed in or may be less instructions related in . In addition many functions of the VCU may be implemented in hardware or software using one or more signal processors and or specialized circuits for each application.

The multiplicity of functions or complexity of the RSCU depend on the complexity and size of the relay station the amount of trailers and cargo volume handling demands the level of service required variety and complexity of services offered requirements for assembly and installation cost among other factors. The RSCU can be implemented with more or fewer transducers more or less sensors more or less devices more or less subsystems to suit the needs and type of trailer and cargo load in particular or transport storage distribution and retailing of the service network in general.

For example the POS Point of Sales is coupled to the peripheral interface to facilitate the implementation of functions of settlement and collection of the money to be paid for related services like transportation self storage warehousing and retailing of goods and services stored or transported in trailers. The POS would record payments in different types of modalities check credit card debit card cash bitcoins payments with mobile phones transfers EDI payments etc. or could also make cash payment for services to drivers or different participating members in the service network. By utilizing the POS it is possible to check available rates of the various services offered locally or where the service network operates. The POS can also enable making reservations of the services offered by the network both locally or anywhere the service network operates.

Various Miscellaneous sensor interfaces can connect a variety of devices to the peripheral interface including but not limited to thermometers humidity sensors biometric sensors pressure gauges magnetometers or any combination thereof. Thermometers or thermocouples are used to measure the temperature inside the relay station or even monitor the conditions of storage and transportation of temperature sensitive goods when the cargo or trailers do not have sensors of this nature but it could be inferred based on the temperature of the relay station especially when trailers are parked near the relay station. Humidity sensors are also used to measure and control when appropriate the humidity level around the trailers. Biometric sensors are used to control the opening of the accounts used for payments transfers or cash disbursements and controls the access of sensitive information such as location of trailers rates routing schemes statistics and other information.

Keeping track and record of operations and operators can enable a high degree of reliability and security of payments services and money transfers. In other implementations the RSCU via the multiple sensor interface can operate sensors such as magnetometers pressure gauges gas sensors antennas among other types of sensors that facilitate measurement. This enables RSCU to implement functions that may need to measure variables related to monitoring and control of the environment in which trailers are stacked or parked and therefore the cargo contained in the aforementioned trailers. Other implementations that can use multiple sensor interface to calibrate the positioning or georeferenced information received by the TCU and the VCU through various positioning systems used by both the trailers and trucks.

The RSCU can include the communication subsystem . The communication subsystem can enable the exchange of positioning information and general information among the TCU of the trailers as well as the VCU of the trucks in order to establish the integrity of the measurements stored in these units and their functioning. Depending on the implementation of the navigation GPS system used by the TCU the VCU and the RSCU enable to monitor the integrity of the components and inputs that feed these units to generate geographic positions or locations indoors or outdoors. Other implementations may check the integrity of other transducers or sensors which measure various variables within the trailers and trucks. Other implementations may use multiple sensor interface to connect a smart phone or a speaker with microphone for communicating with other members of the service network using voice and data channels used by the TCU the VCU and the RSCU . This enables coordination of different tasks among members of the service network or with the general public.

The identification subsystem can be used to read the labels or identifiers of trailers tow transportation vehicles and drivers. Antennas and connections to various wired and wireless ports containing the communication subsystem serve among other things to communicate with the TCU and the VCU in order to access information identifying each of these devices. Being able to exchange information with the TCU and the VCU can obtain the characteristics of the TCU and the VCU adding information used to know the unique components that integrate the trucks and trailers passing by or parked in the vicinity of the relay station.

Information such as the MAC address Media Access Control Address of the Ethernet ports of the TCU and the VCU the printed bar code on the TCU and the VCU printed circuit board RFID chips attached to the TCU and the VCU dynamic or static IP addresses Internet Protocol taken by the TCU trailers and VCU trucks at any given moment unique keys and encrypted codes associated for each truck or trailer tow transportation vehicle drivers the TCU and the VCU event log among other information creates a unique fingerprint to identify each truck trailer or driver and thus a number of techniques and technologies to create a unique identity for every single trailer truck or driver. This can be done to enhance the safety of cargo transport and storage as well as constant monitoring of each trailer and truck across the service area. All identifying information of trailers and trucks and their respective TCU and VCU can be transmitted with or without encryption at any time through the communication subsystem of the RSCU . This is done to track trucks trailers and cargo throughout the service area of the network and check whether the TCU and the VCU have not been altered or changed in trucks or trailers and thus finally determine the identity of truck drivers and trailers.

The communication functions can be facilitated by one or more communication subsystems . The communication subsystem may include one or more wireless communication subsystems or one or more wired communication subsystems. Wireless communication subsystems may include radio frequency receivers and transmitters and or optical infrared laser receivers and transmitters. The wired communication subsystems may include a serial port device such as USB Universal Serial Bus wiring connections to other computing devices such as networking equipment network access devices personal computers printers flat screens or other devices capable of receiving and transmitting data.

The specific design and implementation of communication subsystem may depend on the communication networks or media on which the RSCU operates. For example the RSCU may include a wireless communication subsystem designed to operate on a GSM Global System for Mobile communication network an EDGE Enhance Data GSM Environment network 802.X Wi Fi WiMAX or 3G networks CDMA Code Division Multiple Access networks and Bluetooth networks. The communication subsystem may include protocols for management server or hub type communication device or hub hosting protocols and thus serve as a base station for other wireless devices. Another example would be that the communication subsystem enables the RSCU being synchronized with a network device using one or more protocols such as TCP IP HTTP UDP or other well known protocols.

The camera subsystem and the optical sensor may be used to facilitate camera functions like taking pictures or videos inside or outside the relay station. The optical sensor includes but is not limited to the use of CCD Charged Coupled Device or CMOS Complementary Metal Oxide Semiconductor technologies. Camera subsystem will be connected to more than one optical sensor integrated or external to the RSCU . Thus for example a camera system can send photos or videos of the interior or exterior of the relay station automatically or on demand. The RSCU can send pictures or videos of external cameras for traffic conditions weather location of trucks and trailers video surveillance and others. Another implementation for example can take video images of the trailers parked in the vicinity of the relay station to monitor or visually confirm whether a trailer or trailers are on the premises of the relay station. Another implementation can use the camera subsystem to indicate trucks arriving at the relay station where to park or unhook trailers in transit or awaiting to be transported to the final destination.

The input output subsystem may include the touch screen controller and or the input controller . The touch screen controller may be coupled to the touch screen . The touch screen with touch screen controller may detect for example contact movement or gestures applied to the surface of the touch screen using touch sensitive technologies including but not limited to capacitive resistive infrared surface acoustic wave diverse arrays or matrices of proximity sensors as well as other factors determining one or more points of contact on the touch screen or in the vicinity of touch screen .

Other input drivers may be coupled to other control devices and input through one or more keys or buttons rocker type switches thumb wheel Infrared port USB port or a pointing device such as an electronic pen. The memory interface is coupled to the memory . The memory may include high speed RAM Random Access Memory and or nonvolatile memory using one or more magnetic hard drives one or more optical storage devices or FLASH memory e.g. NAND or NOR types of memory . The memory may store the operating system as Linux Unix OSX Windows Android RTXC Darwin IOS or also the VxWorks embedded system. The operating system may include instructions for handling basic system services of the RSCU or run exclusive tasks of hardware of the RSCU .

In other implementations the operating system includes a kernel or core of a standard operating system e.g. Unix kernel . The memory may store communications instructions to facilitate communication with one or more additional devices one or more computers one or more servers one or more mobile devices. The communications instructions can be used to select the operating mode or communication media to use for the RSCU based on communications technologies used by the trucks and trailers which are passing by or parking at the relay station. The memory may store graphical interface instructions GUI to facilitate processing of the graphic interface sensor operating instructions to facilitate processing related to the sensors and functioning the instructions of the identification system to facilitate processing related to the identification system and its operation storage instructions events to facilitate processing storage related events and operations electronic mailing instructions to facilitate processing of electronic messaging and functioning cameras instructions to facilitate the processing associated with cameras and functioning the audiovisual processing instructions to facilitate processing related to the audio video system and functioning. The memory may also store other software instructions as web video instructions to facilitate the processing associated with video on the web and functioning electronic commerce instructions to facilitate processing related with electronic commerce and its operation.

In some implementations the audiovisual processing instructions are divided into instructions for processing audio and video separately in order to facilitate the calculations in the processes related to audio and its functions and processes related to video and its functions respectively. The proxy server instructions and captive portal serve to facilitate the processing related to the proxy server and its operation as well as the captive portal and its operation respectively. With the proxy server for example a person with smart phone can approach the relay station and the RSCU to navigate through Internet using wireless links between the relay station and the user. In turn relay station connects to the Internet using another wireless link that bridges the user and the Internet network.

The captive portal for example can serve to transmit locally stored websites that advertise and or sell goods and services provide information related to users who are approaching the relay station and the RSCU without accessing the Internet. The content is stored locally in memory . Each of the instructions and applications identified above may correspond to a group of instructions that execute one or more functions described above. These instructions are not necessarily implemented as separate pieces of software or divided into processes or modules. Memory may include or contain additional instructions related to the or can have less instructions related the . Also many functions of the RSCU may be implemented in hardware or software using one or more signal processors and or specialized circuits for each application.

Functional components e.g. engines control units modules and databases in this disclosure can be implemented as circuitry firmware software or other functional instructions. For example the functional components can be implemented in the form of special purpose circuitry in the form of one or more appropriately programmed processors a single board chip a field programmable gate array a network capable computing device a virtual machine a cloud computing environment or any combination thereof. For example the functional components described can be implemented as instructions on a tangible storage memory capable of being executed by a processor or other integrated circuit chip. The tangible storage memory may be volatile or non volatile memory. In some embodiments the volatile memory may be considered non transitory in the sense that it is not a transitory signal. Memory space and storages described in the figures can be implemented with the tangible storage memory as well including volatile or non volatile memory.

Each of the functional components may operate individually and independently of other functional components. Some or all of the functional components may be executed on the same host device or on separate devices. The separate devices can be coupled through one or more communication channels e.g. wireless or wired channel to coordinate their operations. Some or all of the functional components may be combined as one component. A single functional component may be divided into sub components each sub component performing separate method step or method steps of the single component.

In some embodiments at least some of the functional components share access to a memory space. For example one functional component may access data accessed by or transformed by another functional component. The functional components may be considered coupled to one another if they share a physical connection or a virtual connection directly or indirectly enabling data accessed or modified by one functional component to be accessed in another functional component. In some embodiments at least some of the functional components can be upgraded or modified remotely e.g. by reconfiguring executable instructions that implements a portion of the functional components . The systems engines or devices described may include additional fewer or different functional components for various applications.

Then the tow transportation vehicles pick up an empty trailer and take it to the premises where the cargo load is located. Then the cargo is loaded inside the trailer so the trailer or group of trailers trailers group from now on are ready to be programmed and used for transportation . The TCU takes values containing information about origin destination contacts both on the origin and destination place as well as special instructions for cargo transportation and handling. The status variable TRSW takes the value T corresponding to transportation .

The tow transportation vehicle takes the trailer from the origin cargo pick up place and carries it to the nearest relay station. Once there the arrival of both the tow transportation vehicle and the trailer is detected since these components are on the perimeter of the relay station. Control units are updated like the TCU the RSCU the UCCE general information control service see and the VCU. Now by checking the tow transportation vehicle see if a trailer or a group of trailers are attached. If an individual trailer is coming and has to be grouped or a coming group of trailers have to be regrouped added or disengaged in one or more trailers then the tow transportation truck and trailer are taken to a parking area e.g. a regrouping area . There the trailer group goes over ramps where trailers are added or disengaged from a group.

When configuring the new group of trailers the accumulator of miles traveled is updated including green miles . Green miles traveled are those when the trailer group of trailers is pulled by trucks using renewable and environmentally friendly fuels. In some cases these trucks receive government subsidies for using fuels without adverse effects on the environment . Once the trailer group is disengaged or regrouped it is checked whether the trailer group must be transported to the final destination namely the current relay station is the last station before reaching the final destination. If the current station is the last relay station the trailer group moves to final destination.

When the trailer group is unloaded the TRSW status variable takes the value of A corresponding to A Available or trailer group ready to be rented or available for use . If the relay station does not correspond to the last station before reaching the final destination then it is checked whether the driver transporting the trailer group is driving within the limits of maximum hours per day allowed. The driver and or truck should be immobilized to accumulate hours of rest if the driver exceeds the hours of operation . If the driver is still working within maximum limit of working hours then a new trailer group is assigned to engage and transport.

The truck driver is notified about the trailer identification and parking location where to hook the trailer group . When the new trailer group is engaged the TCU the UCCE and the VCU are updated with the new circular return trunk route or complementary route . After setting the new route the truck and the trailer group are moved to the new relay station . Once a trailer and its transporting vehicle get to the new relay station the process is repeated until the trailer group reaches the last relay station .

When the trailer group moves along the trunks from relay station to relay station the process is repeated again and again from step and until the trailer group reaches the last relay station . The set of processes and instructions that are repeated until the trailer group moves to last relay station are grouped in the instruction set.

Once the trailer group is loaded and programmed it is taken to a relay station where it is deposited and then being transported along trunks up to reaching the last relay station before getting the final destination. To do that follow the steps and processes illustrated in in particular the steps grouped in sub process .

The sub process functions as a loop which is a repeated process which is running again and again until the trailer group reaches the final destination. Sub process can a recursive process in view that is repeated again and again until the termination condition of the loop occurs. In the case of the sub process the termination of the loop occurs when the trailer group reaches the last relay station and moves from there to the final destination. On arrival at the final destination the TCU the RSCU and the VCU are updated .

Once the final destination is reached the stacking or parking area is assigned which is located inside of the storage or warehousing area . Once the trailer group is located within the storage area the contents of the trailer group is checked to reconfigure the content of the trailer group . In some implementations once the trailer group becomes empty TRSW service status variable takes the value A Available so the trailer can be rented. The TCU is updated and the trailer group is moved to a relay station for reuse .

If the trailer group still has goods or cargo then it is checked whether to move to another destination or still parked in the area of warehousing. If the trailer group in spite of having goods and property requires that the trailer group moves to another destination then the TCU and the UCCE are updated. TRSW service status variable can take any value as A Available W Warehousing T Transport as appropriate and then trailer group is going to another destination .

Once the trailer group is loaded the transportation process starts when trailers are shipped between relay stations and sometimes stacking or regrouping trailer group when necessary . Upon arrival at the final destination the TCU the VCU and the RSCU are updated . Then the stacking or parking area within the warehouse or storage area is assigned . Once the trailer group is parked or stacked up it is necessary to assess whether to leave for a new destination with the cargo goods or services stored inside of the trailer group. If it is necessary to depart to a new destination then the TCU and the UCCE are updated. The TRSW service status variable is maintained with the S Storage value and the trailer group is moved to the new destination .

At destination the stacking and parking area is allocated within the warehouse or storage area for retailing . Inventory of the trailer group content is verified so when open the items or services are disposed for starting the retailing operation . The trailer group may contain a vending machine so an automated sale is implemented or you can arrange the contents of the trailers for self assisted sale. Once the trailer group is ready in the parking or stacking area the goods or services are disposed for sale meanwhile it is constantly assessing whether the contents of the trailer group is empty. If all goods products or services are sold and the trailer group is empty then the TRSW service status variable takes the value A Available and the trailer group is ready for renting. The trailer group TCU is updated and the trailer group is moved to a relay station if necessary .

If the trailer group still has goods products or services evaluate whether to close the trailer group for leaving to a new destination. If there are still goods or services inside the trailer group and a new destination is assigned then the TCU and the UCCE are updated so the TRSW service status variable takes the value R Retailing and the service network proceeds to move the trailer group to a new destination .

While processes or blocks are presented in this disclosure alternative embodiments may perform routines having steps or employ systems having blocks in a different order and some processes or blocks may be deleted moved added subdivided combined and or modified to provide alternative or subcombinations. Each of these processes or blocks may be implemented in a variety of different ways. In addition while processes or blocks are at times shown as being performed in series these processes or blocks may instead be performed in parallel or may be performed at different times. When a process or step is based on a value or a computation the process or step should be interpreted as based at least on that value or that computation.

Some embodiments of the disclosure have other aspects elements features and steps in addition to or in place of what is described above. These potential additions and replacements are described throughout the rest of the specification. Reference in this specification to various embodiments several embodiments or some embodiments means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment of the disclosure. These embodiments even alternative embodiments e.g. referenced as other embodiments are not mutually exclusive of other embodiments. Moreover various features are described which may be exhibited by some embodiments and not by others. Similarly various requirements are described which may be requirements for some embodiments but not other embodiments.

In several embodiments the routing grouping and or labeling performed by the transportation system can be performed by at least a processor of a computer server specifically configured by executable instructions e.g. stored in a computer readable memory component in accordance with the processes and methods described above.

